ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Budget for the financial year 2022’. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr. Vassilios Economou, has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask you all to keep the time so that we can finish the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u2	Coming here today as the first speaker I was thinking about the words of my faithful and committed for many years of my associate who said to me last night: 'Don't start your speech again by numbering how many budgets you have spoken these years'. And I'm not going to repeat it because someone's going to see the Minutes and then say that I'm starting the same way. But now that I think of it, Minister, I will say by speaking in the twenty-first budget of my parliamentary life that each Member should say his contribution, his presence or his participation in these political events in the country, that he, too, should, seeing this time-frame, his political, political, political and political progress and make his evaluation. Seeing the point of reference, making his decisions and making his final assessment. The third budget of the Mitsotakis government is indeed a key moment in the course of this government and also of the country. After a very difficult decade these three years of transition to normality were tested by very large events. Some of the world's importance, such as pandemics and others with severe political conflicts and situations at all levels, such as Greek-Turkish, immigration, climate change and major natural disasters. Data that have distinguished at this time and showed that this government has a plan for its course, a plan and a country's course. This plan is being tabled for next year. Two and a half years of government. We are in the third year of governance. We're in front of the final straight. And I think that what the government is tabling shows the existence of the project that the average citizen of the country wants. To feel the certainty and security that the country's leading team has a plan. A plan to deal with the pandemic. This difficult and unprecedented situation shows that the government is facing it and confronting the hysterical cries of the opposition that it does not remember or does not remember - but this reason has no resonance - that it was only three years ago that the request in this country was an intensive treatment unit for the injured by a car accident or one who was injured by a stroke. In other words, for the current health situation in the country, unfortunately eighty and ninety fellow citizens were on our daily waiting lists so that they could have access to the bed of intensive therapy. Today, this denounced and hysterical speech often shows how shallow the opposition approach is. It gives the image of the comparison in favour of the government. But do we not all remember the condemnation stand in the Chamber against the only alternative plan for national and foreign policy, namely the agreement with France? Again, we had cries that opposed the self-evident possibilities a country can have that is looking for a multitude of foreign policy. But were they not those who had the fraudulent complaints when the Greek forces defended the borders, or in Evros or in the Aegean islands against the organised systems of boarding national independence through the specific tactics of migratory flows that tried to destabilise the country? Those fraudulent complaints weren't recorded? Isn't that what makes the big difference of our plan? Today's the country's breathed. Why? Because the forces at the border did their patriotic duty. The self-evident thing. And today we're breathing. These are the thoughts that every citizen does when in the answering dozens, hundreds of measurements taken daily or every week, they give this lead, which, of course, is annoying those who have no plan and a particular proposal simply glorify panics against a government that is firmly leading the wheel of the country. But there's nothing else we can do. The recording is always done in here in the Chamber and every four years in the polls. I think this third year is the liveline to get into the final straight line. To remember my athletics a little bit. The passage of live and the image and effort made by the government shows that 2023 will be the final straight and really cut off the thread first. Why? Because the Greek people firmly believe that this government has all the guarantees that it will ensure its course with a plan, with a social and patriotic attitude. This information must be provided by a government. Fortunately, it has been found and I think it is this government and Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the members who support him and accompany him, who will have this firm support from the Greek people. Today, here in the House, at least I do my duty and I support the government budget once again. (Applause from the New Democracy wing)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2022 budget. But we are talking, on a sound basis, about how you can build a developmental, even an optimistic perspective for Greek society, for young people, for workers or for the elderly when you have not learned anything from the recent past? So I wonder how, with this budget, you claim to guarantee the tolerances of the National Health System when you are actually cutting expenditure on the NHS in the middle of a pandemic? How will you guarantee social cohesion with squeezed wages and the accuracy of passing as a roller over households? How will you get the growth bet on the recovery fund's resources headed for the prosperity of just a few specific ones? I will not go any further into the double cord in which you have put the country. A lot of SYRIZA President and we have pointed it out, but it does not sweat your ears from social despair, it does not even sweat from collective uncertainty, from zero income for so many thousands of workers. And your ultimate apathy to the real problems of society is beyond us. Because here we're talking with the weight of more than nineteen thousand casualties. It is unprecedented that society expects the new year with the only certainty of worsening the current situation on all fronts, on the pandemic front, on the accuracy front, on the innumerable assumptions, on the accounts of the CECO, where the triumph of the state is clearly mirrored, on the payroll accounts where the inflows disappear as soon as the month reaches half. The daily life of the Greek society is the life that you have guaranteed to Greeks and Greeks. Do you expect recovery with a reduced investment programme? We have no comment. But we need to talk a little bit about tourism: the country's heavy industry, we say. Despite the drum impacts of the Ministry of Tourism, we had warned. We did not want to be a veteran of bad guys, but fortunately you repeated exactly the same mistakes, just the same relics, and the year was not over. As far as tourism business is concerned, Mr Minister, and the workers in the sector, you have once again continued simply to mock them. You've given too little, too late. There are still no unemployment benefits for seasonal workers in tourism. If we are talking about aid programmes in the tourism and food sectors, then the results are really tragic. In the tourism programme 5% subsidisation of turnover in accommodation. You've ruled out nine out of ten companies. You have budgeted 350,000 euros and you are giving 116,000,000 euros. In the focus program, exactly the same. You ruled out 72% of the businesses. Why have you not lifted all these criteria which deprive businesses of their ability to integrate into these support programmes, even these small ones? We have asked you to do so in November 2020 with a question in the House, and we repeat it with a recent question. Let us look more specifically at what is provided for in the budget for the tourism sector. Furthermore, EUR 17 million from the public investment programme, but for an abusive legal initiative for the granting of public competences by the Ministry of Tourism and EOT, not at the hotel chamber, with which we would agree, but through it, to a private non-profit company. Let's go see the Recovery Fund? Zero the amount you give. But 10,000 000 euros, that is 0.3% of the 3 000 000 euros you said you would give 2022 if you manage to disburse that too. In 2021 you were unable to disburse a single euro. The NRP is reduced by 30%. And this shows a failure by the Ministry of Tourism to absorb European resources. So we have a number of unfavourable measures. Stop the OAED grant programme, social tourism, minus 40%, no substantial measures to support tourism and entrepreneurship, and you are deprived of tourism, the pillar of our national economy, the possibility of strengthening it by the Recovery Fund. So crumbs in allowances, crumbs in health. Should I tell you about Thessaloniki in Burn out? Already in the autumn, we've been at 100% complete at the IFs. Okay, of course, off-site hospitalisation is related, according to the discovery of Mr. Tsiodra's last study with 87% increased mortality, compared to hospitalization within intensive treatment units. What does your government have to say about these people? What does the Prime Minister have to say himself? 42% of deaths come from northern Greece and the hospitals in Thessaloniki. Can we talk more about Thessaloniki? Psiliculas in Thessaloniki as a whole. This does not surprise us, because you are punishing Thessaloniki. You share against her. You cancelled studies that had secured funding, cancelled works from the metro, from the secondment of the ancients, from the compensation that the country is required to pay, from the transit centre, from Egnatia, from the buses of OSTH that you did not bring, from the hospitals you are not building. You're dragging critical infrastructures, inactivating, turning us back a hundred years. So the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is far from the needs of society, does not address the problems of liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises, does not support the income of workers, does not shield the Greek family from the climate of accuracy. Once again, it does not strengthen the national health system and the social state. It is a budget that loses gold opportunities, the opportunity given by the Recovery Fund, which leaves tourism really decommissioned. As for Thessaloniki, it is once again sealing its ideological abandonment by the government. It is a budget that reveals the grim future that you have reserved for the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr Vassiliides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech last year in the corresponding debate on the budget of 2021, I reconfirmed the extent to which all planning of economic policy was moving around the pandemic and its consequences. I said at the time that two and only priorities should be given to the country's economic policy for 2021: firstly, the protection of labour and entrepreneurship, and secondly the reconstruction of the Greek economy and the return to growth. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole focused on these two priorities, which, although we are still on the way to us, as far as the health aspects of the pandemic are concerned, we can talk about the recovery of the Greek economy, positive and high growth rates and generally return to normality. The Government has put in place extensive household and business support measures of EUR 43.3 billion for the period 2020 to 2022, forming the third largest economic support package in the euro area and a fourth worldwide, according to a report from the European Stability Mechanism. We have supported the production and important sectors of the economy, such as tourism or the primary sector. For example, for the first time in years the Greek Government has been in practice next to the farmer. I will only mention the grant of the ELGA from the state budget and retroactively for the years 2011 to 2017. In addition, significant investments in the health sector have been made to tackle the pandemic, a total of over 25% of GDP for the period 2020-2021. At the same time, good management, combined with the attraction of flagship investments and the recovery of market confidence towards the country, has led to the recovery of the Greek economy. The budget forecasts that the year will close with 6.9% performance, which according to EUROSTAT figures is one of the best in the Eurozone, while the available income in Greece has increased by 7.3%, according to the European Central Bank. Furthermore, we have had the best service among all the Eurozone countries to reduce unemployment, without that, of course, meaning that there is no big problem, especially for young people. At this rate in 2022, we are forecast to exceed the 2019 GDP by fully recovering losses due to the pandemic. But let us look at the budget figures for 2022. State revenue is projected to increase by EUR 438 million, i.e. about 1% above the medium-term budgetary strategy framework. However, it must be stressed that the increased revenue anticipated will come exclusively from the relaunch of the economy and not from the imposition of new taxes. The 2022 budget contains no austerity measures, expenditure is also increasing, mainly because of measures to deal with the pandemic. I note, on behalf of the public service, that health services for 2022 will cover 29% of the total appointments. This means that the system will be strengthened with about six thousand people. Despite the cries of some even here in this Chamber, we are treating the chronic weaknesses of the ESS which have become so pronounced during the pandemic period. Furthermore, the State participates in the development of EUR 7,8 billion for public investment. Only forty-eight projects were integrated, while resources from the Fund amounting to EUR 1.5 billion specifically for health support, improvement and reform of primary care of hospitals, prevention and digital health are being used. The government's policy of substantial investment in public works is seen even more strongly in the Greek region. In Pella, they enter the final track of implementation through PPP the road axis Thessaloniki-Yannitsa-Edessa, a highly important project for the development of regional unity, as well as other projects such as the Dam of the Almopian River or the new Judicial Palace in Edessa. Investments in the country's energy network are also being launched with emphasis on renewable energy, transitional fuels, new technologies and savings. An example is Pella, where the development of a natural gas network by the contractor chosen by the TENA is already under way, while it will be developed by a private equivalent network in Edessa and Skydra and discussions will also begin for Almopia. The budgetary balance provides for 7%, reduced in relation to 2020 and slightly less than the medium-term forecast, and is expected to be constantly decreasing over the coming years, making it possible to return to primary surpluses after 2023. Another important size is increased inflation, which we all experience in our daily lives especially in the last two months. According to ELSTAT, only in November saw a rise of 4.8% in inflation. However, the analyses point to the fact that this rise is a result of international developments and below the European average. So we are talking about a transient phenomenon and that is why the forecast for the total of 2022 is 0.8%. In conclusion, Mr President, the text before us remains faithful to the principles of economic efficiency and social justice expressed by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the first moment in taking over the governance of the New Democracy. Consequently and methodically, despite the unprecedented difficulties that the government has been called upon to face, it improves the country's investment environment, improves its services to citizens, invests in health and education and shields the country's defence. I therefore call on the House to ratify the State Budget for the financial year 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Panos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for another year - and I hope it will be the last - our budget debate is in a state of anxiety about the development of the health crisis and its multi-level effects. Unfortunately, there was no proper handling at all and we continue to mourn every day a large number of victims. There is no doubt that the development of the pandemic has highlighted the impossibility of the government to address not only the health issues, but also others of equal importance. A few days after the 2019 national election, and in particular on July 10, high-voltage weather phenomena hit Halkidiki with a tragic account of seven dead, dozens injured and many material damages. Today, December 16, 2021, professionals and citizens who saw years of labor dissolved in a few minutes, even their own homes, have not yet been compensated. As if this is not enough, for another year it has not been done and there is nothing to be done on the level of disaster management planning for the Halkidiki Regional Unit. Halkidiki lacks infrastructure and I feel obliged to mention what I have to say again last year and during the budget debate, I mentioned. There has not even been any progress in the studies to complete the port of Uranoupolis, there has been no progress in the Polygyros-Tryptis-Uranoupolis road network which connects the Athos region and is a great pole of attraction for thousands of religious or non-religious visitors, the Habria dam that we so expected leaves most of Halkidiki and especially the region of Cassandra, while the rural population is constantly affected and has not yet received the compensation it expected on the part of the edible olive. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is not economically viable, nor is it fair at social level, and indeed with communications and heavy statements of impression, we do not reach the essential place. We fully realise that you are trying to present through the budgetary explanatory statement and through the ongoing publications in 2022 as the year of full recovery and return to normality. However, this is a state budget that does not respond to the times and I ask: How much will the country's total return to 2019 cost? Will all citizens return? And what is the desired status of the country and what regularity are you referring to? In fact, it is worth wondering how the gaze of the state budget is in the past, how rather in 2019, where our country was particularly expensive in terms of purchasing power parity, even before the rapid rise of inflation in 2021 begins and where, according to the latest available comparative data from the European Commission, Greece held the third most high excise duty in Europe and the fourth highest indirect taxation in the European Union between the remaining twenty-seven countries of the European Union. And I do not really want to insist on events that many colleagues have pointed out, such as that the Greek economy has paid the most expensive budget ticket in Europe and one of the most expensive in the world for a final development journey which is lacking in relation to European countries. And yes, no one disputes the growth of 2021, especially that of the third quarter, but let's leave the tree and see the forest. And so I return to the unfamiliar return to the normality of the decommissioning regime - I say that we are in a maintenance regime - in normality, in which our country is currently stuck in a problematic productive model, with pro-investing statistical plans which do not actually bring the result we are asking for. With regard to the long-term rural sector, which I have the honour of having undertaken parliamentaryally through the Change Movement, I believe that a minimum development dimension was given the previous time in terms of a development and sustainable plan that really should exist. The rural world is expected to find another year faced with huge tax burdens, with the climate and energy crisis limiting not only the competitiveness of products, but also the very sustainability of their activities, while at the same time the adverse effects of this situation are being transported to the consumer, whose strengths have been exhausted. We have therefore missed the opportunity that Greek agriculture had for a national strategic plan for its development. We have also missed the opportunity given by the pandemic, which admittedly changed the data and brought the primary sector to the forefront on a new basis for food safety, employment and, of course, climate change issues. I am thinking above all of the new CAP, ladies and gentlemen. Today, too, I would like to point out that the budget provides for a reasonable amount of money in the national part of the Public Investment Programme to be allocated to agriculture, while the funding for livestock and fisheries remains, as is little funding for the dimension of sustainable development within the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a banking system drowned in liquidity, but on the other hand, there is a credit crisis. We have a profoundly problematic picture in the workplace, where there may not be higher unemployment in the European Union, but our country remains the largest unemployment among young people and women. We have a inflation that started to grow rapidly in 2021. We have increased housing costs, increased transport costs, basic food costs, and it is obvious that these increases are much more burdened by small and medium-sized households than by wealth. To conclude, the 2022 budget is neither able to predict nor to support the necessary development assistance that the country needs as much as ever. It remains deeply classic with tax burdens not to be allocated according to the possibilities of each group of people, let alone today that the pandemic of COVID has highlighted the health and safety of the country and the health care of the citizens to the shortcomings of the medical staff. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Bukokouros has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second year in which the budget is affected by a crisis which this year is double, since the consequences of the pandemic have also been added to those of the energy crisis. Aggregating, of course, always works as well as the benefits of the far-reaching crisis. They estimate that a phase of normalisation will begin from the coming spring, which we are all looking forward to. In these circumstances, the Greek economy, with the efforts of the government, attempts to reintroduce an overall reinstatement. Of course, the international environment is nothing but easy and we are actually talking about an economic war and an attempt to survive. And what are the weapons that the Greek economy has in order to cope with these very difficult conditions? In my view, the most important thing is one: the credibility we have gained in recent years, the credibility that enables the country to borrow at very low rates, even during this period of great turmoil, the credibility that allows the country to submit proposals to the European Union and be accepted, to be adopted, as was done, with the proposals of Mr Mitsotakis both for Green Pass and for the common debt to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. It is the credibility, ladies and gentlemen, finally, that allows the country to build economic and defence alliances with all the countries in the wider region by strengthening its position on the international chess board. Nevertheless, the size of the economy is always critical and the most critical - in my opinion - especially when it comes to the budget, are the growth rates, is the size of the Gross National Product. For people at times may argue that when the numbers prosper, they do not always prosper. It may happen and it has never happened, however, that the numbers have not been humiliated and that people prosper. The most critical size of the economy is, therefore, the GDP and the growth rates it presents. For 2021, according to the most moderate estimates and as indicated in the budget, growth in the country will reach 6.1%, revised by the initial 3.6%. We'll get to 7%. Minister, you are right, but international organisations are making even more optimistic assessments and speaking for 10%. I wish the best really, because as I said before, it is the most important size. In 2022, a growth of 4.5% is projected, again, from the highest rates in the European Union and in the Eurozone. Of course, this development product, Minister, is going to have to be brought to the attention of as many citizens as possible, and this cannot in any case be done with an extensive policy of subsidisation. The growth that comes from investment must give jobs better paid, because wages remain desperately low in Greece and we all accept that. It is the Prime Minister himself who is committed to double wage increases in 2022. And since we are talking about wages, we also need to talk about the other crucial size of the economy which is unemployment, because all this is interlinked. New Democracy took over in July 2019 and unemployment was 16.5% gross. Today, two and a half years later, it's 13%. It is far from going to 6% to 8%, which is an acceptable percentage for the countries of the hard core of the euro area, but efforts are continuing and this can only be done with investment. And investment, ladies and gentlemen, will increase this year by 11.1% and 23.4% in 2022. It's the only way, Minister. Unfortunately, however, Minister for Development, the public administration does not fully follow the bills that we are voting on here, and unfortunately there is no need for investment, it also affects members of our party. I'm sorry to notice. We don't give the importance that everyone should have on the subject of your ministry, which is all it can get us out of the crisis. I could tell you a lot of things from my own constituency - but neither time nor place allow it - about how difficult investment, investment, legitimate, environmentally neutral, will still be for jobs. Inflation undoubtedly remains a major risk. We do not forget that until June the country's inflation was zero and it is, of course, imported from the international energy crisis, and will certainly move this year to 4% to 5% by pushing the lowest incomes, the weakest citizens and will certainly need measures if we do not come back to 0.8% estimated by the budget for 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, no one ignores the fact that the budget under discussion will be voted on in a climate of global uncertainty and international pressure both from pandemic and from the crisis. In this climate, however, the Greek economy achieves the highest growth rate this year and next year, a growth rate which will again be one of the highest in Europe. It is necessary, in any case, to return to full regularity in order to achieve constant growth rates. Then and only then will we have finally left the crisis behind. The budget revives the hope of economic growth, which is why I support it with my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Papaliou has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget has been tabled and is being discussed under the double 'pandemic', a health and economic crisis. In the 2022 budget, as well as in all budgets, figures are recorded. The numbers themselves don't say anything. The question is how they are interpreted and what is hidden behind them. Thus, the 2022 budget provides for an improved rate of growth (4,5%) and an additionally high and steep fiscal adjustment in order to reduce the deficit from 7% to 1.4% in 2023. What do these numbers mean? The improved growth rate is linked to the budgetary support measures taken during the pandemic, until now, and the ‘opening’ of the economy after the prolonged lockdown regime, i.e. the cut-off of economic activity for the longer duration of the year 2021. Development is designed for the great, the powerful and the few. It does not concern a large social majority, workers, young people, small and medium-sized enterprises, the region which is the target of government policy, as reflected in the programmes and the corresponding financial instruments. These include the national plan ‘Greece 2.0’ and the Recovery and Resilience Fund, drawn up on the basis of the Pissaridis project, which has a clear neoliberal orientation. The fiscal adjustment of this class and extent means continuing and strengthening political austerity and further burden for many. The budget does not include any substantial new measure to combat the accuracy, in particular, where the burden on citizens, households and businesses by increasing electricity and natural gas prices also draws prices for raw materials (for enterprises) and for broad-consumptions (for small and medium-sized households). For our part, it is well known that in order to deal with accuracy it has been proposed to reduce the excise duty on energy and increase the minimum wage. The attack on the social state, on the job and on the small and medium-sized enterprise that had started since the New Democracy, gentlemen of the government party, had been in charge of governance, continues to deprive the necessary resources from the above social categories and sectors of economic activity. The measures already inappropriate in support taken during the pandemic period are zeroed. Total health expenditure is drastically reduced by EUR 820 million, and it is certain that in 2022 the financial needs will be increased due to the continuation of the pandemic and the long monothematical functioning of the ERC hospitals, which have become hospitals for a disease. The suspension of the normal operation of hospitals has forced non-covid patients to resort to the private sector, of course having the financial potential. Moreover, primary health care and health centres, in particular rural type, have been abandoned. Thus, the disastrous management of the pandemic continues by ignoring the priorities, which are considered essential to address its consequences. In other words, with the support of the ESS (the recruitment of permanent sanitary staff, their placement in heavy-narrows, the payment of on-calls and the appointment of the private sector etc.). In this context, the country is a 'protagonist', among the western countries, in the European Union, in all the pandemic-related indicators, those of deaths, invasions and cases. The government is escalating its anti-social policy, continuing to think pandemic is temporary, as it provisionally considers inflation and accuracy. It does not strengthen critical areas of the social state that are necessary for development and the social state. Apart from the ESS, it does not strengthen the TAs, the primary sector, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the free professionals, the Greek region. The long-term and not only strategy, in all areas, leaves it on the market. The minimum wage remains fixed, despite the election announcements made by the New Democracy. The 2% increase forecasted is pretextary. This does not cover either the cost of accuracy and the needs of households. At the same time, the direct and indirect taxes which are envisaged to increase to twice the increase in GDP, are affecting and will affect the popular layers, whose income is also the main source of taxation. The cost will be unbearable for them. The government imposes more adverse conditions on the world of work. Anti-government laws already produce negative results by reducing remuneration, uncontrolled redundancies, intensification of low-cost flexible labour. Moreover, 2022 also starts the implementation of the reinsurance reform that grants subsidiary insurance to private interests. And I now come to the many-speaking Greek regions. All the policies of the Government of New Democracy leave the Greek region, the Greek province. The strengthening of social inequalities is complemented by regional and intra-regional disparities. Local selfgovernment, particularly the one mentioned in the region, is affected by the decline in the financial autonomy of the EBRD, which is consolidated with the budget. In this context, local government is called upon to create surpluses - if possible!- Oh, my God! , and even when, despite the climate crisis and the increasingly extreme natural phenomena, this specific grant is expected to amount to EUR 2 million, which is a maximum of EUR 12.3 million in the year 2021. In the agricultural sector, the components of production costs have been launched. Its measures are fragmentary and inadequate. Ladies and gentlemen, the fires affected by the summer fires in Gortynia and Megalopolis in the Prefecture of Arcadia are still awaiting the implementation of the minimum measures of armour, support, rehabilitation and prevention, contrary to what has been or rather not received by the Minister in charge of the Premier (for matters of state aid and rehabilitation from natural disasters). It is a fact that people in these areas are forgotten, they feel forgotten, and of course they are in despair. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that the budget is moving in the context of the virtual reality presented by the government and the media or rather mass deception that supports it. The Recovery and Resilience Fund is designed to exclude small and medium-sized enterprises from funding, is based on alternative measures and, of course, does not have resources for health and, more generally, the social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Madam President. The budget is based on nonexistent data and does not include provisions for current and future uncertainties. The pandemic, especially in Greece, is becoming alarming. The losses from the recession that has been caused seem to be permanent and not transient, as you arrogantly support, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You continue to practice politics with heavy announcements, communication tricks and political deception.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Colleague, please. You know we're in a very strict context.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Madam President. Through the 2022 budget, the Government requires the social majority to pay for the development of the few, the strong, that is, those who support it by further strengthening social, regional and intra-regional disparities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that time is seven minutes and it has been said since the beginning of the sitting that it will be kept strictly in order to allow the list to be exhausted. Mrs Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone starts to analyse the budget figures, it will be desperate. It will probably be in a continuous intensive outside ICU, so that it can heal one million million of its hopes for a better life. And I'm talking about the majority. I'm not talking about the few. In any case, lately all the measurements and all the research in the world have shown, even from crises like a pandemic that is both global at the moment and a fact, that few are doing nothing but getting rich. And I say that, summarizing and holding just one number. If the government with this budget provides for a growth of around 4.5%, with the same budget an increase in the average real wage is 0,2%. And a primary child can understand the difference in which and how this story called "budget". And we come here every year to say the same thing, as long as the system remains absolutely the same, absolutely capitalist, completely dry, totally in favour of the few. If someone wanted to understand it, they only need two examples. And when I say 'two examples', they actually go and hit the problem in its depth. We have had constant legislative interventions lately on the basis of events that monopolize attention to the mass media. But there in the mass media, too, we have three legislative initiatives. The last one's about the Internet and the crimes on the Internet. And that's where a selective class approach is made. The lights need to be illuminated. There is no green development for the children who have been burnt. There is no inclusion that is a part of welfare, which the government is so illusory about, the inclusion of people with diversity to be integrated into society. There is no 'green death'. You cannot say that the Roma child who was burned with his brother, fourteen in a small space that is not a scene, but is cement inside the heart of the urban tissue and burns because it cannot be warmed. You cannot tell him that this is about green growth and that it will be warmed up with cheaper electricity, because all the investments for green growth are not aimed at the household and cheaper electricity. It is now certain! You cannot talk at the same time about social sensitivity when there has been no sign of social sensitivity for the eight-year-old young Roma girl melted by the sliding door that was beating like garbage and nobody bothered as it should have been, when and as it should have been, nor for the other part of society that ate thirty-six bullets in its youth without being armed! You'll tell me "From there will you start?" Yeah, that's where I'll start! Why are you taking care of her? Will you take care of her, for example, in schools for children with real special needs, for children with problems in special schools, which half of which belong to the municipalities, the other half here, the other half there, the other half over there? Will you take her to Rosa Impriotis' school in the heart of the Athens Lekadium in Cesarean, which has two cabins, one for the children and one for the teachers and which have to cross a place with mud? What funds are we talking about? What green development are we talking about? Is there a green development in the nightmare of people who are faced with a range of poverty? There's so much talk about the IMs, but IMs have costs, they're costly. Mr. Petsas may have been a long time ago, i.e. 15, eighteen months ago, when the JRC's proposal was being discussed in order to get the IFs and discuss the cost, he said that IF's costs were 2,000 per IF. However, there is research from the University of Crete and from Agios Anargyros that proves that the cost of an IF is between 450 and 550 euros! So when you put the minimum cost for a CF450 euros a day, tell me how you can talk about non-public IFs and talk about private IFs, even if we get to 350, which is not true why it is over a thousand? What pensioner with 370 and 400 euros and 500 euros can he get out of his pocket one day? And you say the system is public and free and we measure the ICUs "three of oil, three vinegar, six oil" when it is shown that with four hundred ICUs regardless of pandemic the system reaches its limit, in full operation. So it's a reality what the World Health Organisation says and it's been calling the JRC for months, long before the pandemic, that we're missing MIT. But IDs are not just the cost of machines. It's the cost of personnel on 24-hour duty! So when we go there, what health and what care to sit down and talk when you talk about beastly costs? But the beastly costs are accompanied by the perception of beastly profits. Why can't the other private ICU make two grand a day, at a real cost at the state hospital of 4.5 million? Who doesn't want to make 1500 euros a day a profit when he's a big shot? So why should we train such people? A year and a half in the pandemic, what happened to get the right people to manipulate the ICUs? I was listening this morning to the Prime Minister saying how happy he is that we concluded the agreement to be able to participate, that the Americans voted, that we are paying in their own Parliament. We can buy, he says, F35. Why is none of you proud? Only the communists would be proud if from our factories or from the factories foreigners or money paid by the Greek people in the ports below instead of going down mechanisms to hit the seamen were opened by the budders and left ambulances so that in every corner of Greece that is excluded from being mobile treatment units, they could go to villages in a real way and not like the one who went to Elassona to carry out vaccinations and did not have the appropriate number of vaccines and were sent back to Elassona to those from above in the village. That's what we had to wait for. That is what we had to wait for from a budget that suddenly wants to say that it is polite. But to be philosopher, you must be a long way from the people to see him as a friend from a distance and above. This makes the budget sees the people from a distance and from a high, detached from reality, holds them crumbs along with the obligation to celebrate where they get them. Well, the answer is very simple. Can the world wait? No, he'll be on the streets. He'll be here today at 1800 hours. It will be today and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the streets, in the squares protesting by observing security measures, wearing a mask, nurtured for what is really right. Because mining hopes on piles of bodies you can't do! That's called capitalist trumpets. It was, it is and will be against the intelligence, health and the future of the peoples. You're borrowing from the future. Society that kills its children, including myself, supposedly in the general population and the general dead, is not entitled to speak by looking at the people in the eyes. That's why the people will turn their backs, get out on the road and claim it by the last minute. And within this people you will always find a communist. Capitalist you'll never find, they usually wait on the fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, my colleague. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification process is one of the top procedures for our National Representation every year. However, the debate on the budget does not reflect strictly, not only indicators and figures. It illustrates the way each party sees the economy and society. It illustrates how the government sees the future next year. It shows if you want the general philosophy all parties have. I will try briefly to demonstrate why the government is facing the future with realism, but also optimism, with liberal orientation, but also a social sign, because it is a budget starting from the past and intended in the future, and ultimately because the opposition cannot monitor the government's thinking and understand Greece's prospects at the dawn of the third century of life of our state. Under no circumstances do I want to blame you. I can barely help you so that your horizons can be widened. It'll really be good for you, believe me. Ladies and gentlemen, last year's budget has been described as a road map for exiting the coronary crisis. We ourselves had admitted that we had not imagined him that way, but he was tailored to the needs of a pandemic, a global phenomenon that affected the economy, society and our own lives. He was severely criticised by the Opposition. Nevertheless, we have created the third largest support package for the economy as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone after Italy and Germany and the fourth world after Italy, Germany, Japan, according to a recent report from the European Stability Mechanism. The opposition, you ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, were just asking and all you did was every six months to give all the money that is available without a plan and without planning. Let us look at the multitude of development. Conservative forecasts have now been revised, there is hope that the year will close with a growth of more than 6.9%. The opposition, of course, does not comment on that. Greece presented the best performance in the Eurozone at quarterly GDP with growth of 13.4% and the second best one at monthly level with growth rate of 9.3%. Some well-meaners commented that the comparison between 2020 and 2020 is not satisfactory in 2020 numbers. The truth is that this year we will be approaching the '19s' GDP and 2022 will exceed the '19' GDP by 1.7%. An area that proves the abyss that separates the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with SYRIZA of Alexis Tsipras is taxation and the creation of an environment of stability and economic development. The Government's commitment to tax reduction is permanent both before and during the pandemic and is reflected in the budget. For example, I mention an extension by the end of 1922 of the special solidarity levy exemption, a reduction of three units of insurance contributions in the private sector, a reduction in the refund rate of all advances paid, an extension of the reduced VAT rates to transport, the focus, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, cinemas, theatres, concerts and the tourist package until June of 1922, a reduction in the VAT rate to gymnasiums and dance schools from 24% to 13%, a reduction in dividend tax from 10% to 5%, a reduction in insurance contributions to the private sector for '21 and '22 by three percentage points, a reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 24% and now with the '22 budget to 22%, a reduction in the tax rate of 100% for enterprises from the 2021 tax year, a reduction in the tax rate of €22%, a reduction in the amount of €22% of the natural income tax rate of €2%, a reduction of €22% of the natural income tax revenue of €22% of natural income of natural income for tax revenue of €2. Aren't you seeing all these cutbacks, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population and ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do you know why you can't understand all this? Because you're ideologically opposed. Why you have consciously taxed the middle class and the Greek people - and you have even confessed it - with twenty-nine taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the alleged reduction in health expenditure. You got the wrong door again. Health expenditure on the budget that we are debating is not falling, on the contrary, increasing. You just have a serious problem with numerical and mathematics. Of the 4 billion in 2019 to 4.8 billion in 2020, then to 5.2 billion in '21 and ending up at 5.3 billion in '22. You can't say a reduction of that. It is only mathematically enough to add the expenditure, the funds from the Development Fund of EUR 241 million, the revenue from the Public Investment Programme by EUR 75 million and the extraordinary expenditure of EUR 736 million. And here in the House, the Ministry of National Economy said that whatever is necessary in the health section, they will do so and they will provide everything and the Minister himself was bound by Mr. Stagioras and Mr. Skylakakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by addressing an issue concerning the Dodecanese, my constituency and the inhabitants of the region who elected me and sent me to the House to defend their interest and fairness. In the debate on the 2020 budget, such days of 2019, I put in mind for the first time the need to return the reduced tax rates for the Dodecanese for the first time. It is the historic privilege of the Dodecanese acronym, which you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, handed over to the lenders, to play, if you remember, with the negotiation. I did the same in last year's budget debate. Some people then referred to it as a'realistic request'. Today, from the same Step, I can say that I feel justified in terms of the effectiveness of the Mitsotakis Government. I can say that I am very proud to have helped while I was able to reach a historic agreement on the Dodecanese and restore a great injustice. The proposal for a directive, as adopted by the Member States of the European Union, makes it possible for Greece to apply specific reduced rates of VAT to up to 30% on a permanent basis for the Aegean islands. It is a tool in the hands of the government, which will use when it is allowed only by financial data, always for the benefit of the citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The 2022 budget is a budget that can safely get us out of the pandemic crisis. Without tax burdens, with reduced unemployment, with economic growth and a society, which is our duty to do what goes through our hand to prosper us. And as the ancient Isocrates said, "Your future will be good if you take care of the present." The present not just cannot take care of it, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, but you can't even understand it. In the future, you don't have a seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The reason, now, is Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u22	This year's budget is, unfortunately, being discussed in the shadow of the coronary pandemic. Another Minister, the Minister of Finance, "shaped", declared the end of the pandemic, saying that this is the first budget, which will lead us to the end of the pandemic. Describe the budget for development, beneficial, rich for the majority of society. But it's true, isn't it? I'm afraid so. Unfortunately, for the majority of society, things are just on the reverse. We are not going through the last mile of the pandemic, such as your Prime Minister, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, announced a year and a half ago from a Step of Parliament, but we are on the hard core of the pandemic. In fact, the hard core of the pandemic, when we have so many losses of our fellow people daily, and you throw kites, is done with the budget to write less benefits, less health money. The Members of the New Democracy are coming and they announce, they say we have an increase in the budget. But they're lying hard lies. They call the New Democracy's non paper from Stepping in Parliament and do not recognise that it has been recorded in the budget - the Minister himself has said so - a reduction in the funds for the pandemic. However, let me return to my initial position on the ICMs and mention mot a mot, word-selection, statements by some officials and from the Minutes of this House, what Mr Mitsotakis said. Minister of State, Mr. Gerapitris: "If we had five thousand ICUs, it would mean that we would have a much larger number of dead." Minister of State, Mr Scortsos - your Minister, you support him, you come here and you support these people - 'There is no need to create a luxurious health system'. Mr. Mitsotakis, 15 days ago, from this Step, the Step of the House: "We have no evidence that we have more mortality in patients who are outside intensive care units." And because Mr Boukokouros, the parliamentary representative, came and spoke of the credibility of the government and Mitsotakis, I am glad to say that you are unreliable! You're unreliable, and you're lying from a Chamber Step. For Sotiris, your dear Sotiris, whom you call "Sotiras", I shall call him "Mr. Ciorda, who is the head of the Committee of the Limotologists - the one who has been telling you various things for the last two years, about the management of the pandemic - Mr Sotiris, therefore, has given early May a study by Mr Mitsotakis, where he has demonstrated exactly the opposite, that death outside intensive care facilities is up to 87%. The need for support from the National Health System in doctors, nurses, people who could manage the coronary also emerges from this study. So unreliable, Mr. Mitsotakis! Your Government Unreliable! You're a liar! And you're coming from a House Step now to attack your lies in the budget debate. I hope that Mr Mitsotakis, who will come on Saturday here, ask for an apology from the Greek people, to look into the Greek people in the eyes and ask for an apology for the lies that was unmistakable by a Step of Parliament. You owe it to the nineteen and a half thousands of our fellow people who have lost their lives in their families, but also to all those who are healthier not with applause, but on a daily basis they give the battle against the coronary. The finance ministers, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, on the committees - I am participating in the Committee on Economic Affairs - said that the primary deficit, for this year, will be 2010. You know, those of us who have memory, and I, unfortunately, have a good memory, I will tell you that it comes to my memory in the year 2009, where the primary deficit was exactly the same. We were at 10%, with growth rate, and then. If, then, we put next to the primary deficit, the upsurge of inflation, which you recognise - another if the Minister for Development says there is no problem - the increase in prices of all goods, the necessary goods, to live and warm people up in the country and the further poverty of the Greek people, the social majority, unfortunately, I will say that for the social majority - not for you - the future is bleak. The growth explosion, which the Minister for Development promises, is not matching the minimum wage increase - because I would inform you that you were elected to the government, promising that we would have twice the minimum wage increase compared to growth - as you come to raise the minimum wage by 2%! That's how Mr. Mitsotakis, the unreliable Mr. Mitsotakis, announced. So no one understands that the development that you promise the Greek people is not about the Greek people, but about some of your friends, for whom you have been putting all this time, in the middle of a pandemic, giving them the opportunity to get rich further. Law 2611 has the signature of comrade Efis Ahcioglou - I had the honour of helping the Ministry of Labour at the time - is the law on the permanent establishment of the tenth pension. You, in 2019, when you were elected, came and abolished this pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u23	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u24	Be quiet to hear. Be quiet, you'll hear them! In 2016 we had 1.629,000 social dividends. In 2017 we had 2,750,000,000 social dividends. In 2018 we had 3.780,000,000 social dividends. What have you guys done? You abolished the social dividend and you came to legislate about 300 million for the Greek people this year. So much you think it's the help that you'll help the Greek people. For all these reasons, because you and the Prime Minister are also unreliable, because from this Step forward you are always lying and you and the Parliamentary Group - because that is how Mr Mitsotakis has given you and the Greek people - are voting against this budget. It's not about the social majority. The budget to be voted on by the country's progressive democratic forces in the next few years after national elections will be a budget which concerns and will help the social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the speaking time is seven minutes with a minimum tolerance. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wish me a Merry Christmas and a good holiday to all colleagues and to all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, for some time now I have listened patiently to our colleagues in anti-Population and to their criticism of the state budget and the economic performance that Greece has had today. I have to tell you that if this is the criticism you are making, you are simply making life too easy for us. It is a pity that this is because it is very useful for the individual government to have an opposition that poses the right questions and the right criticism. But it's absolutely impossible to exercise a proper opposition if you don't actually live. I come to what I was just listening to from the favourite otherwise, Mr Barkas. He advertised SYRIZA's great "success" with the social dividend that he gave every year. He did give one, two, and a half billion. However, those who lived in Greece during the five-year SYRIZA, we welcome that this dividend was only a fraction of the very great primary surplus, much greater than the goals set by the memorandum, which naturally was achieved by incredible taxes - not to repeat them - in almost anything that Greece has. I would just remind you of the story that the memorandum provided for a primary surplus of 3.5% and there was a year when you were'slapping' - I will say why I put it in introductory terms - 6.5%. Since you were draining the economy and its liquidity all year long as you could do so, you really came to the end and gave a small fraction. Of course, the world did not remember the little fraction in December. He remembered the tolerance and pressure he was having during the year and so you lost the election. It's so simple. If you have not yet understood after five years that the economic policy you have pursued with the social dividend not by growth, not by most of the money earned by the country, but by most of the taxes, was disastrous for Greece and above all for SYRIZA, you just make our lives extremely easy. I must also tell you that I am the one who is in a ministry, as is Mr Sculakakis who is present - mostly the two of us, all the ministers, but above all we of the Ministry of Development and of the Ministry of Finance - have an advantage and disadvantage at the same time. If you remember those of you who had heard my programming statements, I saw it from the outset as an advantage. What we do is measurable. It does not raise much theory and "saltsa". We're either bringing investment or we're not bringing investments. We either absorb the NRP or we do not absorb the NRP. Whether we are making progress in our economic development in line with international indicators or not. Both of them cannot apply to productive ministries, because - I repeat - we are all counting against the opposition, but the markets are counting on us, the Commission counts us, the International Monetary Fund, ELSTAT counts us, we are all counting until the euro and they see exactly what we have done. I'm listening, let's say the thing. That's really the relentless thing I heard. There was a colleague of the Anti-Population today a moment ago he said, accused us and looked at Thodoris and crucified, that "how are you gonna do" - he says - "economic development while you are reducing the Public Investment Programme?" Hey, guys, wait a minute. We don't even read the budget, do we? I am presenting - for the Greek people to see - the course of the Public Investment Programme from 2012 to 2022. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I say: 2015. Watch out. Your budget was set at 3.6% of GDP in the Public Investment Programme. 2016, 3.6%. 2017, 3.4%. 2018, 3.5%. 2019, 3.1%. This budget that we are now voting on, for which we are accused of reducing the Public Investment Programme, aims to 4.2%, while your last has had 3.1%, not counting on the costs to be incurred by the Recovery Fund, which are recurring to 5.9%. In other words, you made a budget with a Public Investment Programme of 3.1% of GDP, we now have a budget with a public investment programme of 5.9% of GDP, and at the same time we are accused by the opposition that we are reducing the Public Investment Programme. I'm sorry, guys, this can't be a conversation. You tell us that 5.9% is a little bit and that it can be 10% is an argument. You can tell us that we are reducing it, while we have doubled it from SYRIZA time, I'm sorry, but that's really only you can do it, unless you're just people who haven't opened any budget page. I come before the National Representation in this budget debate to tell you what the Ministry of Development and Investment has achieved, and because we believe that we will also achieve the extremely ambitious targets for the investments set by the budget that we will shortly be voting on. So let's go. When we took responsibility in July 2019, and I personally, following the mandate of the Prime Minister, took over my responsibility for the investment sector in Greece, Greece in the Ernst and Young index for the value of foreign direct investment - it is the only global indicator that counts 50 countries in Europe as regards the value of foreign direct investment - was in position 35. We received the doughnut from the previous ones and the only indicator that counts what I have the responsibility of being 35. Take this year's index. We've been in the first ten since 35. That's measurable. When we received responsibility in July 2019 following the mandate of the Greek people and within my area of responsibility was the absorption of the NRP, Greece was in absorption in position 19. Take the Commission's today's board. Greece is in position 1 from position 19, i.e. first. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When we received the political responsibility of the Ministry of Development and Investment in July 2019, Greece had never received the approval of the new NRP in its history in relation to all the other countries of the European Union. Take it. Greece is the only country to which the new ESDP has been approved so far and we will be the first to draw up the new sectoral programmes from all the countries of Europe. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're going to the economic performance of our state. It's been said, but I'll say it again. Greece in 2020 was predicted by all the institutions and by the Commission that, due to our great dependence on tourism, we will have the greatest recession throughout the European Union, because precisely the proportion of GDP dependent on tourism in Greece is twice as high as that of the next one. Based on this and on the pandemic that stopped travel, air transport and tourism, the automatic prediction of everyone was that Greece would have the greatest recession throughout the Eurozone. In fact, SYRIZA, when the first assessment was made, was about celebrated. Greece was fourth since the end. This is a success, when we were expected to be the last to be different, and this year Greece is the first third quarter in development throughout the Eurozone, at nine months' notice and it is now quite clear that Greece will be able to achieve it in 2021. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will not say a number, I do not want to say a number, ladies and gentlemen, because the figures will be seen when they expire. But I will tell you what will certainly be done. We will be in the only three countries of the European Union that we will have covered in one year the entire damage of 2020. The other 24 countries will not have achieved what small Greece has achieved. What we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, is not theories, it's not if I have a squeeze of voice, it's not if I was a telebial salesman, it's not if someone likes me, it's not if someone dislikes me, it's not if I'm short, it's not if I'm tall. It's the numbers. It cannot be said in the budget that we are not talking about it and that I am listening to all this madness you are saying to me. Unless there's a global conspiracy. We're not talking about a list of Pechas anymore. We're talking about a list of J.P. MORGAN, who yesterday made a report on the Greek economy about the "MORGAN STANLEY", the "UBF" that I submitted previously to you in the Minutes, the entire international economic press, the "BLOOMBERG", the "FINANCIAL TIMES", which is all fed from the list of Petsa. If that's what you think, keep going. But then don't wonder why we're throwing you ten and twelve units in every poll. We're throwing you ten and twelve units because you're talking to another reality. You go up and start: 'Social catastrophe, tolerance, poverty'. Of course, all this is in Greece. Now are there? Wasn't there tolerance and poverty on the SYRIZA? Now you've found out? The question in politics is not whether they exist. There are. Are we going for the better, or are we going for the worse? Don't you know that unemployment has fallen at the lowest rate in the past 12 years, which means a lot of people have found a job? Those who listen to you and get a job, what do you think they're saying? And in any case, if there was all this poverty, all that poverty, all this social catastrophe, why does the world vote for us? Are they massages? Do they all live in poverty and poverty and vote for us and vote for us again? How's it going? So get serious and make a real opposition. And I close, Madam President, in a minute, because I want to say this, particularly so that the New Democracy colleagues can hear it and be proud of the results of our Government. I, as the political leader of this ministry, feel very proud of the numbers I will tell you now, to make the comparison. Government SYRIZA. In the 2018 budget, they set an objective - in other words, a debate in December 2017 - to increase investments, i.e. gross fixed capital formation by 11.4% for 2018. They predicted that we would be able to reach 11.4%. What does ELSTAT record for 2018? Decrease of 4.3%. They're falling out of 15.7 units. Not only do investment come, but disinvestment continues. In the 2019 budget now, beware, they set 11.9% target for increased investment. The first quarter - 7.5%. The second quarter - 18.8%. We went, that is, to fall out in 2019 20 points. The 2019 elections are taking place, third quarter of 2019 plus 14%, fourth quarter plus 15% and we manage and close marginally positive and solve the 20 units that we received on an annual basis from SYRIZA. Because it changes the economic climate, people start investing. Our pandemic is coming, obviously, in 2020, but despite the pandemic, we are not losing anything to investment. We stay exactly stable on what we had achieved in 2019 on an annual basis, which mutatis mutandis was a success. And we're coming to 2021. I think this is an honour not to me, not to the entire group of financial officials, Mr Stavoura, Mr Poutlakakakis, myself, Mr Papathanassis, Mr Tsakir, Mr Dimas, all that we have in our responsibility - what is called - Mr Hatzidakis, the Ministry of Labour, obviously not to blame anyone. Because investment policy is a global government policy. That's what I mean. Take care, then, of what we've achieved. In 2021 we'll close with an investment increase of 11.7. This is our best performance - be careful - since 2006. We are talking for four years before bankruptcy. Our target for 2022 is plus 21.9% in investment growth. And I ask for your vote, ladies and gentlemen, to give us the strength to give the battle to succeed. And I commit and tell you that it will be achieved. If this is done it will be the best performance in Greece for twenty-seven years. That's what our government does. And those who live in the real world, you see the buildings that are being rebuilt and the engineers who have found jobs that were all unemployed and children returning from abroad, many where many left and hotels that are being renovated and investment majors coming - not repeating them - "PFIZER", "CISCO", "MICROSOT", "AMAZON", "DIGITAL REALTY", nor in your sleep did you see them. All that the Greek people see, recognize, and that's why they support us. I therefore call on colleagues to support the budget for 2022, a budget which will definitively make Greece and the economic crisis, but also the crisis of the last two years that has come unforeseen. And one final comment on inflation. What I said - in order not to distort - is that the comparison of November '21' to November '20 which Anti-population is constantly doing, namely inflation on an annual basis in November 2021, has a major disadvantage for the perception of reality. In November 2020, we had a great deal of deflation, minus 2.5% because of the quarantine measures in force worldwide. So obviously when you compare November to minus 2.5% the number increases. Inflation in the year `21 will be closed annually to 0.1%, because in the first seven months we had lasting deflation. I am not saying that there are no price increases. Obviously there are price increases, compared to deflation large, compared to 19 smaller. Where inflation is going now in 1922 today no one in the world can make an accurate prediction, because no one in the world knows where the energy will go and where the fares will go. I myself am still optimistic that, after the first quarter of strong inflationary pressures, this will begin to deviate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u28	You know that both the New Democracy and SYRIZA have three or four parliamentary representatives. We're talking about the budget that he's no longer a bill. So, yesterday, Madam President, I would ask you to also discuss this at the Conference of Presidents following the position of each Minister, Parliamentary Representatives of Representation, as well as constantly asking for the floor. So that we don't go to such a process today...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u29	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u30	Because the Rules of Procedure say so, Mr. Comrade. The Rules of Procedure are clear. The budget is a bill. It speaks of the main positioning of twelve minutes and the right of three minutes. If four Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy come here - so as not to talk about the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representatives - and constantly ask for the floor, do we realise where the procedure will go? I would like to comment on this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u31	I'm taking the point, Mr. Colleague. I want to observe something. Mr Kaklamanis, the first Vice-President, when the process started, announced the times that would be strict - so I heard him say - seven for the Members, ten for the ministers, and that is what I would ask both the MPs and the ministers not to exceed their time. Secondly, I will only allow the floor for questions and not for placement. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are the first on behalf of the government in today's procedure and from yesterday and several colleagues, and I, as a Parliamentary representative, have asked a question to the Government. The publication of the last study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra, who is rightly proclaimed on the front pages of the newspapers, has brought some dramatic conclusions on the burden of the public health system, the increased mortality and the responsibilities of the government which did not support the ESS. So I ask you. The Prime Minister, who had made this shameful statement that it does not matter whether someone is in or out of the ICU, feels the need to come back to repair, answer? Is he coming today? Is he coming tomorrow, or will he wait on Saturday at the Prime Minister's time to answer? Today we are listening to scientists such as Mr Pavlakis saying that the 'Omicon' mutation does not distinguish between vaccinated and unvaccinated and that measures urgently need to be taken. If we had closed schools today and not Wednesday, we would have saved a thousand five hundred and two thousand cases a day. Is that what you're concerned with? Is there an emergency plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u34	I have a couple of questions and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u35	You have just said one question, Mr Colleague. This cannot be done. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am running quite well in this Chamber. So please, no voices. If questions are only questions and not put, Mr Colleague, they are good. Or I won't let you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u36	Did you predict that this year from the Recovery Fund you would get about 650 million and only 150? Is this true or isn't it? If this is the case with regard to accuracy, because you are the Minister who must say, in fact, and you have not said anything, that is why. If the issue of deflation actually applies, does it not apply to updating last year's downward recession by ELSTAT in relation to the pace of this year's development? That's all you have to answer. Not general things that are really out of your portfolio, which if I'm not wrong about the trade sector. Neither did the NRP where you found a set-up job and you've made a payment stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u37	Come on, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u38	Mr SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative will respond to the Recovery Fund, if he is present, and he is well aware of it. But I'll answer the first. And I want to speak with very great honesty. First of all, the Tsiodra-Lytra study, and today I started reading it. And because of my previous term in the Ministry of Health, I must admit that I am not surprised by her results. He doesn't say what you're saying. First of all, he says in there that the system was left with quite a licensed IF beds. That all ID beds were never covered. And what he points out is an increase in the mortality of the ICMs in Greece compared to other countries and in Attica compared to other regions in Greece. In other words, in the regions more, in Attica less. I have to tell you that, if you are really provoking us, we will certainly find many studies with the same conclusions on SYRIZA. Because, in fact, this study presents nothing but time-consuming problems with the National Health System for which the Prime Minister has spoken in a timely manner about the reforms we are planning to solve them. Because we care about solving them, not doing a show. But I have to tell you one last thing, and I tell you very sincerely. You are the only opposition throughout Europe that the only thing you are dealing with is pandemic. The only one. Is it good for you in terms of your performance in public opinion? Very bad. Because all public opinion is aware of the obvious. That you wish the pandemic would go badly to win votes. Even the new 'Omicon' mutation that brings new restrictions to various countries and great concern, as if it had pleased you. It's like a new hope you've got to shoot Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u40	Stop what you're doing, Mr. Syriza. Greece can withstand us in the pandemic. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u41	Give it up. He was calling you from LAOS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Barka, may I have a word? We are in plenary and not in the cafeteria. Please. Miss those characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u43	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u44	I'm remarking to everyone. So you're very welcome. When someone talks, let him talk. As the Minister has heard the honourable Member, you are also obliged to listen. Mr Tragakis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u45	It's the forty-seventh time I've been talking to the budget. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What I have seen today, that is, there are confrontations in the budget on unrelated issues, I think we have not dealt with it many times. I therefore believe that we should keep the bar down, be consistent with our obligations and be able to help the process so that we can speak as many Members as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2022 state budget is taking place for another year in an environment of high uncertainty due to the global health crisis. Along with the uncertainty about the development of the pandemic is being added for a few months, and the new uncertainty about the evolution of inflation, for which the Minister of Agriculture has referred, cannot be called into question. They are reported by ELSTAT and the state budget figures. In one case, the pandemic and the other of the economy resulted in uncertain and unknown factors that could overthrow any prediction. That is why in the new year's budget the target remains twofold. On the one hand, it focuses on interventions to relieve society and the consequences of the pandemic crisis and inflation. On the other hand, it focuses on structural reforms that enhance medium-term growth. With regard to social support measures, the government has committed itself to supporting society and has done so with measures such as GEOFYRA, the subsidy of fixed costs of enterprises, the support of sectors of the economy through the ESRB. I would like you to pay more attention to the elements of the NRP, those that have been implemented and those that are ready to be implemented. Banking tools for strengthening business liquidity, the ‘COMPANY’ programme, the new jobs subsidy programme, the reduction in the refund rate of repayable advances. Not only did the government show directly reflexes but it further improved relief measures more than three times. I would also remind you that by a decision of the Prime Minister the burden of increased electricity and natural gas has been reduced. The oil tax has been abolished to farmers. VAT on coffee, non-alcoholic beverages and transport decreased. Social benefits for vulnerable households have doubled. In fact, this last package of measures accurately includes three more initiatives to support our fellow citizens. Firstly, an exceptional payment of half a wage to about 100 thousand active health workers in hospitals, the EAW and health centres. By the way, we would like to thank all the health workers who are at the forefront of the pandemic. And a little is what we give. All the low pensioners of the country will receive a first aid of 250 euros, increased by 50 euros for each member of their family. Thirdly, the exact same allowance as the low pensioners will also be granted to the beneficiaries of the Welfare and Social Solidarity Agency, that is to say even a hundred seventy-three thousand people. Beyond these measures from the heating allowance, it remains increased twice as much as the past, and of course it is distributed to households with impeccable, objective and fair criteria. This does not apply to natural gas and the next few months, while the government's decision has temporarily suspended the charge of public utility services by the companies. All this composes a grid of support for the Greek people against accuracy, which is, by analogy, one of the largest granted throughout Europe. In relation to taxes and social security contributions, the Government continues uncircumcisedly and in 2022 to reduce them, as it has committed. In the permanent tax reductions already implemented in the HPAI, in the tax rate for natural persons, in the withholding tax on dividends, in the advance payment for natural and legal persons, in the income tax of enterprises, in the abolition of parental benefits - donations for relatives, in the tax rate for all agricultural schemes, in addition to a further overall reduction in HPAI, the exemption from the special levy on the solidarity of incomes of workers in the private sector, the reduction of the fee for mobile telephony subscribers and the abolition for young people up to twenty-nine years, the suspension of the payment of a pay-TV fee by June 2022, as well as the reduced rate for transfers, coffee, non-alcoholic drinks, cinemas, the tourist package, gyms, dance schools by June 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, despite global uncertainty about the development of the pandemic and despite inflationary pressures, the 2022 budget records the positive performance of the economy and highlights the country's strong development policy and perspective. The Greek economy returns to normality, since the fourth quarter of the year is expected to have recovered the total annual losses of 2020. We're going through the recovery stage in the development phase. The growth rate for 2021 is significantly revised upwards, with 6% escalating this year and 4.5% next year. In simple terms, it means that in relation to the downturn of 9% of 2020, our economy has already covered more than 2/3 of the lost domestic product. In the part of structural changes, a catalytic factor in progress and prosperity is the Recovery and Stability Fund, which will change the country's productive model with a number of reforms and performances. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget reflects the correctness and effectiveness of government economic policy. Industrial production consistently records upwards, processing is enhanced, building activity is increased, credit growth is rekindled, deposits are increased, electronic transactions are strengthened, money and capital lending costs are maintained low, economic competitiveness is improved, the country is upgraded, economic growth rate is revised significantly upwards, households' available income is strengthened, the real income of workers is increased, the number of unemployed is lower than in April 2010, while the number of employees has been the highest since June 2011. I am voting for the State Budget of 2022 because its implementation will help to get the country out of successive external crises economically even more resilient, nationally even stronger, socially even fairer. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President, and my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Cretan has the floor now on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor I now think I should hand over my identity, because what we have achieved is unprecedented. We have succeeded in the breakthrough of the social contract of health with society. We managed to politicize the vaccine. We've all been able to interpret scientific studies, and we've all become doctors. I'm really going to testify my medical identity because we're only filled with doctors in Greece and everywhere. Well, we are here today to discuss the second development budget and we have passed through solid rocks, these pandemic stones, and let us face all this through a global price reduction, upwards, of course. But we are united against the very difficult ones and it will be easy for us to be united and easier after the health crisis, because then we have to make our balance sheet, gentlemen. We stood up and became an example, not only the government, but Greece, our Greece. The name of Greece was honoured for the management of the pandemic. The name of Greece is now being honoured in Europe through the impressive and successful policy of the Greek Government, as it succeeded with very impressive reform measures to lead the Greek economy on a new successful path. It is not my own words, but the words of the new German Minister for Finance, Christian Lindner, who urges Germany to imitate the policy mix in order to return to the economy there too. We are going through a period of time when Greece conquers prestige, consolidates new geopolitical ties, turns into a global pattern of transition into green energy. In a few years' time, our country will increase rapidly its GDP through the extraction of clean energy, an energy that our nature, our sun, our air and our sea provide. GDP growth means stable growth, new infrastructure, new well-paid jobs, means reversal of Brain Drain, returning young people to their homeland, creating conditions to create families here, means reversing demographics, a problem that is directly linked to our per capita income and growth rates. Large technology companies trust Greece to create data centers, the Scaramaga and Elefsina shipyards enter a new era of growth. The largest private project in Europe began, the major infrastructure projects, such as the northern road axis of Crete, Patras-Pyrgos, are progressing rapidly. The Development Fund, a leading funding tool for new green and technological projects, will lead Greece to the new era, while serious studies, such as in Laconia - my homeland - for the Sparta - Gythios national road and for the Trinassos irrigation network, are completed. Greece has managed to overthrow the climate in the past two years with a diplomatic rally. Beaming becomes a regulator. A parable, a challenger. From insecurity to security for its citizens. We have managed to conclude agreements that shield our national sovereignty from any threat, from any action that is malicious or inconvenienceful. Now, with regard to the management of the pandemic, we did everything we could to convince that the virus existed and exists, to shield the National Health System, to draw up the National Vaccination Plan, to bring the vaccine immediately, which is a gift of science to humans and the most effective weapon to the virus. We have dealt with and are facing - as today - suspicion with arguments, anti-disciplinary scenarios with methodicity, emergency needs with design. We have faced fellow Members who did not have the elementary maturity to put aside political benefit and to encourage their fellow citizens to be vaccinated. On the contrary, they harvested the scripts, poured the fears, fueled unscientific Internet posts, looted the logic of many of our fellow citizens. But the truth always wins today, if we are here, because of the government's planning, the emergency economic and health measures, the cooperation with our fellow citizens, the Greeks' desire for serious governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget reflects the development perspective and meets our main priorities and our main targets for dynamic development throughout the country, which gives fruit to all Greeks. We are voting for a budget in a state that leaps to digital transformation, a state that drastically limits bureaucracy, which creates a protective social protection net, with targeted actions, with substantial support policies for our most vulnerable fellow citizens. The new budget, like the previous one, does not include new taxes. On the contrary, it includes additional tax reductions and other incentives. I repeat, as other colleagues have said, a number of the measures, such as the implementation of the 'First Union' programme concerning young people from 18 to 29 years of experience without prior work experience, the extension of the programme of the hundreds of thousands of jobs, with an additional fifty thousand jobs, the abolition of the parental benefit tax and donations of up to 800,000, the reimbursement of excise duty on diesel to young farmers and farmers participating in cooperative or cooperative schemes, the reduction of feed VAT from 13% to 6%, the reduction of the legal person tax from 24% to 22%. Greece is moving ahead with a plan, strategy, serious foreign policy, shielding national sovereignty, extroverting, predicting a global wave of accuracy, a desire to complete the major transition project in green energy. In the next ten years, we will be living a lasting transformation with vision and perspective. The messages from the world community are that Greece has returned. Greece again becomes a beacon of hope, a model to be imitated. So I urge you to vote on the 2022 budget. It's worth it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. It's all the inconveniences, the workers, the pensioners, SYRIZA, the young. How about you? Nowhere. It's all going well for you. I saw before at the same wavelengths the Minister of Development with the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, jointly claim the first prize for the better joke of the last decade as Mr Mitsotakis said, that SYRIZA put us in the memorials and bankrupt the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 state budget reserves nothing positive for the large social majority. It is not developmental, it does not respond to the current conditions and needs of the world. On the contrary, this is a perpetuation of the ideas of the New Democracy. Cut 820 million from the state health budget. Remove 280 million from public hospitals, cut EUR 600 million sanitary and extraordinary costs for the pandemic, reduce 1.7 billion for social costs, drastic reduction in university funding. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a decade's record of inflation in recent years. Prices in energy products were on fire. At the same time, there have been variations in many goods which make up the so-called 'household basket'. About five hundred products are now being banned, due to costs. Workers, households and small and medium-sized enterprises are threatened with a new wave of poverty. Listen carefully. President of the agricultural cooperative recently pointed out that farmers suffered electroshock with the increases they saw in their accounts. The same is true in households, of course. We're talking about a 100% increase. That's what you answer! Last year, on October's account, the price of KWh was 0.092 and November - listen - 0.162! TEV Director Mesaras Heraklion says the adjustment clause doubled the electricity cost and TEV - after hearing - paid in the summer of 2020 for electricity of 47,000 euros, while in the summer of 2021 it paid 91,287 euros. But you, of course, saved PPC. I'm filing the documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Following the aid fiasco, the privatisation and depreciation of the people's markets, corn, clover, pesticides and fertilisers at heights, you are giving our farmers the charismatic shot, but you are also giving consumers the cost. As to the pandemic, today the Greek people, Mr Mitsotakis, pays the inertia, the arrogance of your Government. You walked in the blind, with communication and not effective management of the pandemic, making criminal errors: from the "last mile", hundreds of dead, unprecedented situations, black foundations. Listen. There's a huge effort going on at the ICU. Surgeries of patients with a brain tumor are postponed, because there are no ICU beds to welcome postoperatively these sick people, says Mr. Janakis, Professor of PANGNE's Pneumonology. I'm presenting to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We currently have more than ten thousand outstanding surgery in Crete and you're talking about a social state and you're not ashamed. The collapse of the ESS, the crowding in schools, in public transport, your weakness, despite the fatal millions, to convince you about the vaccination are the characteristics of your misfortune. The "Syrinth" Kyrchos: "Farsotra the management of the pandemic, small tricks at the time of the great risk". She said she saw a Kurchos. The Lytra-Tsiodra study is coming to confirm the designation and - I have no doubts about saying - what you have been assigned a long time ago, that you are liars and political frauds with what Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, told us yesterday. Regarding the'social state of Mitsotakis', to put an end to this parafiscality that is developing these days, I do not like numbers, but I am obliged to mention them: In 2019 you gave 175 million, in 2020 you provided 54 million social dividends. In 2021 you gave 330 million, no memos. The "bad" SYRIZA, the "bad" Tsipras, the "bad social state of Tsipras" gave in 2016, a memorial of 629 million, in 2017 gave 750 million and in 2018 gave 780 million! More than 2.5 billion and 350 million more. That confirms what I said earlier, not to repeat it. Because you have already complained, because a colleague mentioned the thirteenth pension, I will tell you this and put it right in your mind once and for all: Law 4610, Article 120 was the law that made the thirteenth pension permanent. A law, Mr Mitsotakis, does not apply when it is abolished and you have abolished the n. Article 120, which provided for in the thirteenth pension. Let go of fairy tales, then, it was a law of the state that you abolished! Rule of law by Mr Mitsotakis, Prime Minister of the professions without any objection. A government abstract, and how do I justify it? The murderous earthquake in Heraklion Prefecture took place on 27 September. On 28 September the Prime Minister made a proclamation and made promises. Today, three months after the earthquakes, workers are at God’s mercy. No prevention. Citizens at the mercy of volunteers, businessmen in despair. Three months later, children and families live in houses without refrigerator and electricity. That's the state. These are the budgets you are voting on. The bad news, of course, is that the earthquakers in Crete will make "black" Christmas with all this. And I put this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, we did not expect the budget to see the war you have declared to the workers. How is the budget being strengthened? How does the budget strengthen the majority of the Greek people, the workers, with the increase of 45 minutes - half a cocoon - with the fact that they are poor, with the abolition of the eighth, with undeclared and unpaid overworking, with the disorganisation of the ECA and the EIC, by abolishing the collective agreements? A hundred and fifty colleagues in food-tourism-tourism will stay out of the Unemployment Fund this year and while we have tabled amendments to solve the problem, you have rejected them. But, of course, you are protecting them with what you do, which has not dared any right-wing government ever to do and has done so by the Mitsotakis Government, to put his hands on n.1264.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u50	You need to close up, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Madam President. You are the party of plundering, indifference, opacity, the client state. Your budget is a report of ideas and even ill-written ideas that impoverishes and leads the people to huge deadlocks. You will vote for the budget yourself and you will have all the responsibility for the poorening of the Greek society. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Antoniou now has the floor on the part of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is the third budget tabled by the New Democracy. Therefore, we now have enough samples of writing to evaluate the orbit in which the present government has taken the country. Three are its dominant features: political preservatives, economic elitism and social retardation. These features are reflected in many ways in various areas of government policy. Political conservation is reflected in the way in which the health crisis is handled. While it is the national health system that lifted the crisis, it currently has the least permanent staff than it had before the outbreak of the pandemic. What are you doing all this time? You hired fixed-term staff, your choice was, i.e. emblematic solutions rather than permanent solutions for the ESS and for primary health. Instead of rewarding the current medical and nursing staff and incentivising them to continue the titanic effort they have made by joining the heavy and unhealthy professions, as requested, you are also coming and reducing state funding to the National Health System for 2022. You only hold as a footnote the resources that could be used if the pandemic does not retreat. It is obvious that, when the pressure of this health crisis begins to fall, the health system returns to the state it was in 2019. And the question is clear: Was the HR in good condition in 2019, as you received it? She was in regularity and you want to go back to her? Already in the crisis you have shown your intentions that the public health system should be released again for the benefit, of course, of the private sector, which has been relieved of its involvement in the treatment of pandemic and was effectively subsidised by the Ministry of Health, as it was a zone free of coronary for those who had incomes. This is also reflected in the private health expenditure paid by households. According to ELSTAT's 2020 figures, Greece has the largest private health expenditure in Europe, with 8% of the household average budget, recording a significant increase that cannot be attributed, of course, to inflation, since it was zero in this sector. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Greece traditionally stood at the top of Europe's consumer spending on health and competed with Bulgaria, but now we have a clear first. On the other hand, your economic elitism is reflected in the policy to address the economic and financial consequences of the crisis. You have given EUR 43 billion, as Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoras, the world's largest financial package, in order to curb recession and recover the economy. After that, you hope to return within 2022 where we were in 2019. But why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the sixteen of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union with much less budgetary measures have already recovered in 2021? Let's tell you why. Because you have been late to take measures and this has led the country to a deep recession - the second deeper recession in the European Union - because you have then taken horizontal measures instead of targeted and specific measures. Finally, the measures you planned for liquidity were for very few who had privileged access to them through the banking system. And here are many critical questions: Is it normal that Greece has received EUR 40 billion from the European Central Bank in the pandemic liquidity and that money should be parked in deposits to commercial banks and the Bank of Greece? Is it normal to increase the deposit of businesses and, above all, to 62%, while households at 14%, in relation to pre-COVID levels? What exactly does Mr Stavros welcome? Because few and powerful people receive much more liquidity than they need today, or because everyone else has no access to the banking system, since credit granted to them is zero? That's what happens when you plan for the economy, talking only to some economic centers in the country. A characteristic example is the gift of 2 billion euros, which you gave with the increase in capital in Piraeus. Unfortunately, the same is happening and will also be done with the resources of the Reconstruction and Recovery Fund, which you have planned with your privileged interlocutors and not, of course, through substantial social consultation. This development model, gentlemen of the government, only concerns elites. It is the same productive model that bankrupt us in the period 2004-2009, and unfortunately Mr Mitsotakis' government is again walking in the footsteps of Mr Karamanlis' government, which led us to the crisis and the memorials. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the citizens who say that the rulers have learned nothing from the country's almost bankruptcy are right. The third dominant feature of your policy, namely social retardation, is actually and inflation that is now affecting the weakest, a phenomenon that the government is facing with aspirins, because it estimates that it will be temporary. Our country was already very precise before the rapid rise in inflation began because of the very high indirect taxation imposed by SYRIZA and you took it off. 60% of the revenues of this budget come from indirect taxation, i.e. from the most unfair form of taxation. Today the consumer from week to week observes the prices in supermarkets, as well as in a number of goods and services, going upwards. We pay as Balkans and pay as Europeans. This is the normality of the New Democracy, in that normality we cannot consent. We are voting against the budget, except for national defence expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u54	The floor will now be taken by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis Ioannis, MEP Lassithi Crete. What else do you want, Minister? I told you everything! Here, you have the floor for ten minutes and with a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the demand for the 2022 budget is made within the particular circumstances and the great problems caused by the continuing pandemic. The threat to health and life unfortunately remains, as is the threat to the global economy. Allow me to begin my speech by calling on all and all to contribute to the fight against pandemic. Having just a year ago, he experiences the agony, loneliness, the fear of the coronary, I urge every Greek and every Greek who has not been vaccinated, to do so immediately, every one and every one who has made the two doses, to rush to make the commemorative, all of us to observe the protective measures. We're at a critical moment. Vaccination, the consequence of compliance with the measures, the responsibility for our social behaviour are our essential weapons. If we use them properly, if we make use of the great achievement of science, we can win the battle, we can win our lives back. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy Government, having been aware of the unfavourable parameters and the scale of the problems of the new reality, have also worked in 2021 to two main priorities: the protection of the health of citizens, while strengthening the National Health System and supporting the economy of households, businesses and the development of our country. We have given and continue to fight big battles on both of these fronts. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy we have worked and worked constantly to create a modern environment in which both the shipping industry and the paralysing industry will find suitable ground to develop for the benefit of the economy and society. The main reform axes of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy focus on supporting Greek shipping and shipping, the even more effective protection of our maritime borders, the maximisation of safety on the seas and on the beaches, the strengthening of the Greek ports' development prospects, the development of maritime tourism, the promotion of the island and marine space as a key part of the country's productive fabric. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the safety of citizens in the marine space, the protection of human life in the seas and the beaches is a crucial priority of our policy. The Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy attaches particular importance to preventive planning and activities that can make the sea a place of security and prosperity. Train proof of all this is the new institutional framework for lifeguards, which despite its mandatory implementation at the end of May 2021 managed during this summer's summer period to prove the importance and importance of well-designed preventive action. The figures are, in any case, semantic, but also their importance. Compared with 2019, there was an increase in the maritime coverage of the bathroom facilities in 87% from 76%, a decrease in lethal accidents of 10.23%. It is also worth noting that in municipalities that first hired lifeguards, the reduction in fatal accidents amounted to 27.16%. For the protection of our country's maritime borders, Greece protects its borders with determination, with due respect for international law and with absolute priority for the protection of human life. When Turkey allows traffickers to endanger the lives of devastated people, port officials rescue them. The men and women of the Port Corps attempt day-night, three hundred sixty-five days a year. They deserve praise and appreciation for all of us, having achieved impressive results. And in absolute numbers, these results are even more impressive. In 2019, third-country nationals who illegally entered the country amounted to sixty-five thousand, in 2020 to ten thousand and until now, in 2021, about four thousand. So we have an impressive reduction in migration flows in 2021, compared with 2019, at more than 90%. As much as it does not like some, Greece protects and will continue to protect its maritime borders, which are also the borders of the European Union. In the field of health and public health, last summer, we experienced - and I believe we have all experienced - the results of a coordinated effort by the Port House, which took responsibility for the exclusive application of health protocols at every corner of Greece, on the coastline, on the cruise, on the pleasure boats. In the maritime sector, the introduction of competitiveness-enhancing measures for seagoing shipping in 2020 was complemented by the promotion of a coherent institutional framework for new measures with particularly positive results, a positive response from the maritime community, since applications to register new ships on our flag in 2021, compared with 2020, were more than 62%. We also promote modernising the maritime institutional framework with the crown of our interventions, reforming after sixty-three years - I repeat, after sixty-three years - the Private Maritime Law Code. At the level of maritime diplomacy we reached the conclusion of important maritime content agreements with Saudi Arabia, South Korea, while just the day before yesterday we signed an emblematic memorandum of cooperation between the Greek and the American Coast Guard. Also, for the first time in the history of the International Maritime Organisation - and this is particularly important - Greece was elected first in votes in the first category of the IMO Council, which confirms in the most emphatic way the confidence that our country enjoys from all the states of the organization, as well as the excellent level of cooperation it maintains with all the countries of the world in the maritime sector. With regard to future initiatives, both at European Union level and at International Maritime Organisation level, our aim is to ensure the smooth energy transition of our shipping, our shipping, to achieve the environmental objectives related to the carbonisation of shipping. For our ports, the success of attracting investment interest is great. It will continue in 2022, which will complete the selection phase of the first contractors in the ports of Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Igoumenitsa and Heraklion, and will continue intensively with international competitions and other ports. At the same time, in the coming days, the draft law modernising the institutional framework for pleasure boats and strengthening the industry's competitiveness is put into public consultation by simplifying and speeding up procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the negotiation with the European Commission for the new programming period, in addition to the firm actions of the Ministry, the concept of islands has for the first time been introduced in connection with the sustainable blue economy and with the obligation to ensure territorial cohesion of the country. Through the Ministry's Sectoral Development Program from the National PPC for the 5-year period 2021-2025 we manage funds of EUR 900 million with guaranteed resources for the transport equivalent for ferry lines, as well as maritime, island and port interventions. In addition, the sectoral programmes of the ESDP have included budget actions of more than EUR 1 billion, which add actions that have been submitted to the regional sectoral programmes. For the island ports we have already launched the financing of the first 30 to 175m euros through the ESRB and 20m euros for projects to address and install through the Recovery Fund. Within 2022 we will have the first notices of port projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Development and Investment and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, we have presented a uniform planning and planning for maritime transport, in particular for barren lines, to prove that the islanders and in particular the inhabitants of the small islands are not second-class citizens. In 2022 we have announced by the European Union public transport for small feral lines, the backbone of islands, multi-annual contracts, and by the end of the ESDP we will have allocated 370 million for this purpose. At the same time, in cooperation with the Hellenic Chamber of Shipping and the institutional partners of the ferry, we create incentives for the renewal of the fleet, more environmentally friendly and at better speeds for the island and the visitor. Our effort, however, does not stop here. At the same time, the equipment of the Port Corps is entering into a phase of the completion of critical tenders to increase the operational capacity, but also the readiness of the staff and the means. With a systematic work and valuable assistance from the Port Authority Services, we have formulated a new doctrine for the port of the future, launching funds commitments of more than EUR 340 million from the Integrated Border Management Fund and the Security Fund for the period 2021-2027. Finally, in the area of digital transformation we change the map of services to the citizen, the maritime sector, our seafarers and our students with forty-three targeted actions. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, by completing the selection of Mr Mitsotakis, the government, the choice of the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is the implementation of our overall planning for shipping and islands. We are effectively protecting our maritime borders. We're saving lives in the Aegean. We support seamen and shipping. We are implementing reforms at all levels. We are making progress on exploiting our ports.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u56	Finish it, Mr. Placiotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u57	We give substance and meaning to islandity. We are creating an integrated, modern, operational framework in which the whole maritime industry will grow even more in the years ahead. Those who know shipping do not know that this objective is possible beyond what is necessary. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u58	Three colleagues will now speak, because I want to remind you - since 1990 in this Chamber - that the budget is for the ministers to present the facts and the budget, but above all for the Members. I stress that and I'll be on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u59	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u60	We are signing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u61	It is for the Members and it is a budget debate and not a parliamentary control. So Mr Nikolakopoulou, Mr Tolkas, Mr Baraliacos, will speak and then the Deputy Minister for Health, Mrs Gaga, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 state budget debate is under difficult circumstances. It is at a time when a huge effort is being made to vaccinate all citizens, but also a great effort to recover from the consequences of pandemic. We will all agree that our country is coming out after a ten-year economic crisis has been faced with extremely difficult challenges. The health crisis due to the pandemic made it necessary to support the public health system with additional resources and the need for financial support from households and businesses. The escalation of Turkish provocation, in conjunction with the wider geopolitical developments, made it necessary to defend our country and strengthen the Armed Forces. At the same time, the climate crisis has caused and continues to cause huge damage to our fellow citizens' property, leading to the need for a modern and rapid loss recovery mechanism, as well as the need to support our affected fellow citizens. We have to agree that despite the exceptional and high costs of meeting the challenges, the Greek economy has endured. We have supported the public health system in an unprecedented manner within a short period of time, and that is what you are reading, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. You do not, however, read the studies that say that between 2015 and 2019, without a pandemic, we had ninety ICUs. We have supported households and businesses with innovative financial instruments. We amplified the Armed Forces. We support our fellow citizens and businesses affected by natural disasters. And in this environment, according to recent data from EUROSTAT, our country presented the best performance in the eurozone in the third quarter of the year in terms of GDP growth at a rate of 13.4% per annum and the second best in nine months compared with the corresponding periods of 9.3% last year. At the same time, the European average stood at 3.9% for the third quarter and 5.7% for the nine months of 2021. Investments increase on an annual basis by 18.1%, which is an absolute figure the best performance of the last decade, while in the nine months of 2021 a significant increase in the number of exports is recorded by 27.9%. Unemployment has fallen to 13% from 16.5% in September 2020, while the available income of citizens, according to recent data from the European Central Bank, increased for the first half of 2021 by 7.2%. According to the European Commission, we expect to have the third highest growth this year in the Eurozone. The Greek Government has been able to support society at the first moment, so that the Greek economy will have a cumulative growth of 11.7% for the years 2021-2022. In fact, 2022 is estimated to recover the losses of 2020 in full. This development has largely been based on internal demand, increased exports and better than originally expected tourism. These, together with the support measures that have been taken all this time, the investments we have attracted with the presence of top companies such as MICROSOT, CISCO, PFIZER, DIGITAL DUALTY, AMAZON and, of course, the resources of the Recovery Fund, the ESDP and other Community funds. All of this is not a virtual reality, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, as you wish to believe. It's a reality. This results from the estimates and forecasts of all domestic and international organisations. These are the result of market confidence, of our country's ability to borrow at historically low interest rates and at the same time to repay its debts to the International Monetary Fund. However, the statements made by politicians and economists around the world also come from the conclusions of EUROGROUP in the context of the 11th Enhanced Surveillance Report. All of this doesn't happen at random. They are because in this environment, with the response of the challenges, we have continued our reform programme to attract investment and create jobs. We're reducing taxes and insurance contributions. We are simplifying authorisation procedures. We reduce bureaucracy through a flexible institutional framework, but also through the state's digital transformation. Within one of the most difficult periods we have carried out a hundred seventy reforms. We have made over seventy interventions to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, the amount of which is EUR 43.3 billion. In the same economic environment, however, we are supporting our fellow citizens who are most in need, with the minimum guaranteed income, with the support of the low-skilled and disabled people, with the exceptional wage payment to the health workers who give the first line, with the increase in the minimum wage, with the increase in the heating allowance and the broadening of the criteria, with the support of our unemployed fellow citizens by extending the programme of hundreds of thousands of extra 50 000 jobs, with the support of young people with measures such as the first one for the first six months of employment and the abolition of the mobile telephony fee, with the support of farmers with measures such as the return of the excise duty on oil to young farmers and farmers participating in cooperative agricultural schemes. And, of course, we are moving on with all the major infrastructure projects. We have been carrying out projects that have not been done for many years. In the beginning of 2022, the great project for Elias begins at last, the Patras to Tower road, which will give a great boost to the prefecture and contribute to the safety of citizens by road. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is changing, reconstituting internationally, building a strong and dynamic orbiting profile, in orbit of brave reforms, forms a picture of a stable and reliable country. The budget of 2022 shall contribute to this upward development path. The tax relief of households and businesses, but also the creation of a pro-invest climate, are key components of a strong economic policy. The 2022 budget combines economic competitiveness and economic development with social justice. Confirming the most time-consuming values of our prolongation, we are aiming to protect our most vulnerable fellow citizens, but also to strengthen private initiative. With realism and optimism we do our plan for a Greece with confidence, a Greece that recovers the trust of all citizens, a Greece that gains respect at international level. I therefore call on you to express your confidence in this draft by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government and to vote for the State Budget of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u63	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Angel Tolkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the positions of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies assumes that they describe the situation of another country or that they are talking to a very small percentage, which the crisis does not touch. We are told first of all that this is not the subject of our debate today in this budget for health. The loss of human lives, the burden of the economy, the collapse of the ESS is a rampant development and a negative primary at European level for which your policy followed. Political egoism and the use of scientific data in your interest have left you at no time to accept either one of our proposals or one of our calls for wider consensus. And when you applied some of our proposals it was already too late. I can't help mention the case of my county, Imathia, which is one of the prefectures that is leading in negative records. When I invited colleagues from the Co-Population and the Government to joint actions in a specific local action programme, as they needed everywhere where there were counties with exceptional difficulties, they were indifferent. The Minister of Health didn't answer one of the questions I've asked him. It was only hypocritically that he promised so-called initiatives at joint meetings with local bodies and then did not see them. Your failure for the vaccination programme led to a burden on the economy and in 2021. People have lost their lives, their jobs, their businesses are closed, the focus pays dearly the marble of your own populism, your own demagogy. And the Greek people, since yesterday, have been ignoring the lies of the Prime Minister who raise political and moral issues about mortality within and outside the ICM. Latigation and demagogy are to describe as a luxury the support of the ESS and the creation of new MITs. Latitude and demagogy is to treat the support of the ESS as a temporary one, which will not need us in the future, ignoring all scientific suggestions to increase the chances of new similar epidemics and the need to have infrastructure for future challenges. You participate, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the core of the conservative Europe that put health into the yoke with the economy and lost to both, as the Greek economy had previously put its support to the yoke with the financial discipline and had disastrous results for the country. You're talking about returning to normality. Resurrect and indifferent in fact. Can we see the rise in inflation in the last quarter? Inflation was 1.9% in September, 2.8% in October and 4.3% in November. And instead of worrying about this rapid increase you say that we are about fine, because it is one of the lowest inflations in the European Union. And you know very well that there will be fire in the first-needs, in food, in daily consumer goods from Genoa. We don't just tell you, the market itself tells you. And against this, you do not mobilise control mechanisms, you do not even mobilise the Competition Committee itself. Mr. Georgiadis was here, he left, but he told us all the other nice numbers. I'll tell you later about Mr. Georgiadis and his numbers. You are considered a return to normality and you are comfying to increase the revenue available in the second quarter of 2021 compared to the second quarter of 2020. Of course, when comparing evil to worse, it would seem that something improved. But why does it not refer to private consumption in 2020? The level of private consumption in Greece for 2020 according to EUROSTAT is therefore fifth from the end. They follow Slovakia, Latvia, Hungary and Bulgaria. Here, please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angelos Tolkas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, the Greeks' ability to consume, buy, shop on the market is one of the worst in Europe. Basically these figures prove that we are living today. The retail trade, focus, trade, small and medium-sized enterprises are in a special permanent lockdown, as are the entire economy. Can't you hear the market that tells you that from September onwards they're all dead, that they didn't work on either discounts or so far and they're waiting with distress, frustration and no hope in the last week of Christmas? Aren't you listening to the focus that it no longer takes off even the costs that have been cut down on jobs and the ticks have disappeared? Especially in the province you've given up and out of every programming. Remember that you are driving farmers out of production, Minister of Agriculture, with the absence of a plan, with the European Union not claiming opportunities and funds for the new CAP, with the increases in farmland that exist and are constantly intensified in oil, with the violent exit of farmers who need it from the people's markets where they participated as producers. And in Imathia, there has been neither a project nor a development project in two and a half years to reverse the course of abandonment and poverty. And that is what I said before to Mr Georgiadis, who had promised, had made public 10.7 million for the 3-5 Pigadia ski resort in Naoussa. I imagine that the corresponding sums will have been allocated to almost all the prefectures. And the Ministry answered the same, but not Mr. Georgiadis that we never said that, they never existed. Really, how do you expect the situation to improve in 2021 without any intervention in this budget? You perpetuate the old economic model, while we are talking about changing the productive model. You know, I was surprised that the official line of all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies was the advertising of the four, five major foreign investments that took place in the country. Their impact on providing jobs and rewarding economic benefits will be discussed if you want. What do you have to say, however, about the need for many Greek productive enterprises to create many jobs and a multiple economic cycle for wealth production? This is the model we want to move forward in the production and development of the country. You want a state that will share resources and wealth with those who have so far been used to doing so. We want a budget that will stop the country's progress towards a new bankruptcy, which the weak will pay again. Only now to the weak, unfortunately, are the small and medium-sized ones who, until the 2019 elections, defended with all your strength. Really, in what so-called normality do you want the country to return? You want a country of spoil in the hands of your rich and oligarch political friends. That is the regularity described through this budget and we are voting against it. We are talking about a new day, about the well-being of the majority of the Greek people, overthrowing everything that brought us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u65	As I have said before, Mr Baraliacos will now be given the floor from New Democracy. After that, the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Gaga, will take the floor. Here, Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the ratification of the State budget for the year 2022, I would like to expressly condemn the incident that took place a few days ago in Egypt's Pierre. The predator's predator's predator of high school from the so-called "secretary of the Constitution" is an act that is contrary to the laws and certainly the shocking images we have seen, concern an extreme intolerance. The case, as foreseen in modern urban democracies, has taken the course of justice and has already been charged with felony charges. On this issue, today, we are discussing the approval of our country's state budget for 2022, while Greece and the world community continue to face the pandemic of COVID and the dangerous mutations that are constantly emerging. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with a realistic, clear, costly, innovative and dynamic plan, kept the Greek economy and the Greeks standing. This government has once again demonstrated that it can manage crises, fight and win. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is the third, in turn, of this government and, despite the fact that it is drawn up once again at the expense of the pandemic, it only brings tax relief for Greek citizens. The recent data from EUROSTAT, according to which Greece presented the best performance in the Eurozone, at quarterly GDP level, with 13.4/% and the second best, at monthly level, at 9.3% growth rate, prove that our country is heading to a type V recovery, that is to say, a return to the economy at a rapid pace in the pre-Korean situation, after the shock that occurred in 2020. Unemployment, the time spent on us, has fallen to 13%, a significant reduction which is not a cause for celebrations, but proof that we can and will be able to make it possible for all citizens to have opportunities in the labour market. Throughout the pandemic, we have been next to businesses and households and have taken appropriate measures, with the cost of assistance for 2020-2021 amounting to EUR 43.3 billion. In the health sector, public spending is also increasing in 2022. In particular, they increase, compared to previous years, reaching a general government level of 6.3% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the numbers speak for themselves. Regular and extraordinary health expenditure totals EUR 5.25 billion in 1922, compared with EUR 5.21 billion in 1921, which is EUR 40 million. And what extraordinary money is needed during the year, the government states to all tons that it will be made available. So I believe that, somewhere here, the debate on expenditure on health, the year in which it comes, is ending. Education, for us, is a priority, and in 2022 it will come considerably strengthened, with expenditure increasing by EUR 142 million in the new budget that we are discussing, expenditure to be added to the thousands of teachers' recruitments, the year that closes, and we all conclude that we are investing, this government is investing in our children and the next generations, which are the only prospect of our country. Finally, I could not go into the expenditure of the primary sector, the farmers, our farmers and our fishermen, which is one of the main economic pillars and my country of Pierre, but also of the entire Greek territory. Our government is undoubtedly the most pro-agricultural in recent years and has already reduced by 50% the tax on capital concentration. VAT on animal feed was reduced from 13% to 6%. A low tax rate of 10% is provided for agricultural cooperative schemes. Most farmers and fishermen from the trade fee are exempted, and in the new year the excise duty on agricultural oil is paid to over two hundred thousand farmers. We supported all the affected sectors of the rural economy, giving money from the state budget to the ELGA, to cover crop compensation, which has been affected by the severe weather phenomena of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget in 2022 - we are clear once again - does not contain any new taxes. The increased revenues, despite the sparse of SYRIZA, come exclusively from the relaunch of the economy and not of course from any new taxes, as some of you claim. We are insisting on policies to reduce tax burdens on households and businesses and to stimulate investment and export, as we firmly believe that these lead to the necessary transformation of the production model and to high growth rates in the years to come. The budget under discussion is a solid starting point, not only for the return to normality but also for the potential development of our country, with the first elements creating a sense worldwide. Our European partners are responding to the pessimistic and pitiful forecasts of the Police Department. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few seconds, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Germany's new Minister of Finance Christian Lindner recently spoke of the very impressive reform measures that have brought the Greek economy to a new path of success and argued that Germany can be inspired and made as ambitious as Greek internal policy, turning our country into a pan-European example to be imitated. Greece is turning towards an economic model that is more extremist, competitive and green, with growth rates that go beyond the European Union's average. The path we have chosen is the inferior but, confirming Nikos Kazantzakis, we prove that this is the right path. Having as our ally the funds of the Recovery Fund, the new NSRF and with a coherent, ambitious and realistic economic plan of our Government, our country is moving forward. This will be reflected in the 2022 budget, a budget that sums up a new reality. Greece is changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u67	The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Gaga, is called at Step. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u68	Good evening, Mr President, everyone. As you know, 2021 was the second continued difficult year for all of us, difficult year for the health system, difficult year for each of us. The health system is being pressed for two years now and all the health workers inside it are pressed and tired. So the whole world is tired, and that's why we've got a lot of cases, we're less careful, we're really all tired. This leads to more cases and to constant pressure. We have many incidents, many people who get sick, get into hospitals and needing hospitals, and the CIVID sick are hard to find, are sick who want a lot of attention, are sick who want multiple monitoring, very high oxygen supplies. So the first thing I want to do from this is to thank all my fellow health professionals for all that they have been offering for two years. With regard to governmental work, since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has worked with scientists, appointed a committee, continuously monitors what happens both to hospitals and to the world and to measures and pandemics. The measures recommended by scientists are followed. This monitoring is continuous and I can tell you that before I take over this position - I am three months here - as a doctor I was invited by the Prime Minister to go up to northern Greece and not only myself, but many other scientists from major centres that have had great experience to see in the second wave in Thessaloniki and northern Greece how we could help with the pressure of hospitals that were really great. We really did, and we are in constant contact with colleagues in northern Greece. I did it as a doctor in Salvation, I did it as president of the Ministry and I still do it from the Ministry. So surveillance is continuous and daily. We see the data every day. Changes are made in collaboration with scientists and health workers in each hospital and in every structure of Greece continuously. The pandemic's experience has highlighted all the good things we can do, because they've all made them out of it, but what things we need to change, what changes we need to make to the health system from now on. One thing is, of course, that we have our minds and we want to go well with the pandemic and give the best health services to all the sick. Let me say here that throughout the pandemic, even though the ESS was accused of becoming one-thematic, it never became one-thematic. Let me just say that for the month November 4th - I say to you elements from an RU, so they are respectively from the 3rd RU and from the rest - which is actually being pushed too hard with the daily cases of northern Greece, the 4th RU has hospitalised 17 thousand non-COVID patients and about three thousand COVID patients. So only the only theme is the ESS, and that is a very important reason for the pressure, because we really need the doctors and nurses and all the technicians who are in the health system to take them off parallel with the injured, with the burners, with the people who have infarctions and brains, but also with the patients with COVID who have to be in different places, with different protocols and want very much attention. So social cohesion and help from doctors outside the health system is very important, because conditions are really unprecedented and very difficult. Apart from the first time that the conditions were extremely difficult and we didn't know the issues and we were all trying to figure out what is going on and move on with the sick better, since the end of December last year, we have a vaccine. The vaccination has gone on with very good services and more than seven million of our fellow citizens have been vaccinated. The younger children are being vaccinated now. It seems that vaccination is going up in older ages, which is very important, because people who are mostly ill and are older people in ICUs. They're in danger, they're getting more sick, they're serious. We're taking all these lessons and planning a new health system. What we are concerned at first is man, patient and citizens who need services. Prevention services are needed and major steps have already been taken towards prevention. The anti-smoking law came in. lung cancer is one of the first causes of death in our country. Also, the CFP is one of the biggest causes of morbidity in our country. There has already been a barrier, a very important prevention. The program "Spyros Doxiadis" and the program "Phot Genemas" is introduced to prevent cancer of the colon, breast cancer, cervical cancer. These are very important prevention measures that can help and save too many lives. In addition to prevention, we want education - these have entered the RRF, as I have told you - to provide health services everywhere, in every village, in every island, in every difficult area in Greece. This means that we are using both primary doctors and doctors of various specialties who are watching sick people in each region, pneumonologists for people with chronic pulmonary problems, cardiologists for people with the chronic cardiologic problems that many are, rheumatologists and so on. We want there to be services everywhere. For the services to be better, we start the patient's digital file and the interconnection between structures, i.e. the interconnection between each primary doctor on any island - this already exists for the 2nd HY, for the Aegean islands - in all the difficult areas, so that the doctor who is there, who is usually a general doctor or a rural doctor, can have a connection with a secondary hospital, with a qualified doctor and be able to have the information needed to better deal with the patient anywhere. Not only that, but we want to make such an interconnection so that a man diagnosed with cancer, who leaves northern Evia, goes to Chalkida or Lamia or Athens, makes a diagnosis and then needs chemotherapy, can take this chemotherapy with surveillance and telemedicine at his home and do not need to be transferred every two or three weeks to a central hospital to do things that are relatively simple to do at his place. So we want services everywhere. We want the interface, we want the digital file, which will belong to the patient. The information is the patient's and shares it with his doctor or with every hospital he goes, but it is his own property and he can share his data when he wants to. This is very important, because we are saving valuable time, especially when someone goes to the press and needs immediate treatment. Having the digital information about what he has done in the past is very important. We also generally improve the structures and services in hospitals. The first ten projects to improve hospitals have already been put into the RRF. They are related mainly to emergency departments, but generally to hospital structures, surgery departments, various departments and services. We are putting a way of measuring the waiting in the emergency departments for patients, which we consider to be very important for the citizens. At the same time, in hospitals with the LAPY they enter protocols, they enter services as to how satisfied the services sick are and the whole hospital structure is built differently with specific codes and specific protocols. We also place a great deal of emphasis on doctors’ education. We start with basic clinical education after medical school, which is done in all European countries, and this is very important for the way doctors treat themselves and for how they can deal with things when they are doctors with a degree and they have to take the patient from history to prescribing to daily treatment. I am telling you again that this is a programme that is being carried out in Europe. In England, for example, for two years. We put it in a semester. Our schools are very good, so our children need less of this process, but they still need it. In specialties, we must finally get a plan in and say how many specialties, how many anestheticists are we going to need in the next five years? We'll do them. How many dermatologists are we going to need for the next five years? We'll do them. How many neurosurgeons are we going to need? We'll do them. There is, in other words, a link between the needs of the citizens and the qualified doctors we are creating, which is very important and which has never been done so far in our country. We're doing the same for nurses. The first specialists of nurses started last year and will continue this year. So the programs that get into training are training programs in the emergencies we have doctors, but not everyone has the emergency specialty. We are training for citizens too, so that in an accident area, a landslide, and it needs a wounded direct help, that someone can offer it with knowledge, and that is how we can save lives. It is therefore very important in a country with two hundred islands and a lot of mountainous and remote villages that this interconnection exists, this cooperation between health in the region and health in central Greece, in the centers, and that is why we are moving forward. We have important measures in our hands on the budget, the Recovery Fund, as well as the new NSRFs and too much attention to this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u69	Well, I'm explaining what they meant a while ago. I know that it is very difficult for a colleague, any party appointed to be a Parliamentary representative for five consecutive days in the House from 9 a.m. to midnight. It is therefore self-evident that the parties should change as far as their parliamentary representatives are concerned. However, this does not mean that the debate on the budget will be converted into parliamentary scrutiny by the parliamentary representatives from all the parties and the Ministers at the expense of the Members. That is why the Rules of Procedure have provided for this and Rule 103 states: 'The Deputy Members of Parliament - i.e. Parliamentary Representatives - are also entitled to speak for four minutes the first time and for three minutes up to two more times'. We're not talking about their normal speech. So the three times are for the whole meeting of the day and not every time the parliament changes, and it is three in six hours or five hours, that is, nine times, something that happened yesterday. Let's be clear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u70	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u71	Under the Rules of Procedure, you will take the floor, Mr. Skourletis, for four minutes. But this cannot be done again, speaking a fellow Member scheduled for the 0.00 p.m. the sitting was closed at 2.00 p.m. after midnight. This is not going to be repeated again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, you can understand that Mrs Gaga also owns a portfolio which is absolutely timely. So invoking your medical status, Mrs Gaga, I would like to ask you a few questions, a reflection and, if possible, a comment. Do you think that intact CIVID patients within ICU can have the same hospitalisation when they're out? I would like your medical opinion on this. Secondly, in relation to the conclusions of the survey, which saw yesterday the light of publicity, of Mr Tsiodra and of Mr Lytra, which say on the basis of their own estimates that they are being charged, it is second-speed for patients who are not ICUs, what do you intend to do to respond to this issue? What further measures to support the ESS are you planning now that the pressure is culminating with the 'Omicon' mutation? Is there any plan, even now, for extraordinary new measures, for schools, for the holidays, given that the 'Omicon' mutation is not effective until now? How do you judge the attitude of your fellow New Democracy MEPs who voted a few days ago against the lifting of the patent, which enables the world to be massively vaccinated? And as you know, this is the way - the most effective - with the weapons data so that we can surround the virus. What will you do so that, based on your own statements, the flow of deferred critical surgery suspended by 80%? What kind of aid will there be? You talked about other diseases. This one-sided orientation to COVID can mean to the rest of the patients? And, finally, what about the private sector? Will it even take advantage of this critical moment? Will they take on COVID incidents? Is the logic of ordering at this critical moment? And I'm talking about the IDs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u73	Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor for four minutes. I wish her a good term in her new duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you are a valid scientist and a doctor, and that is why I would like to ask you whether you are adopting the views which have been given in the light of publicity by studying Mr Lytras and Mr Chiodras, who clearly state that there is sub-financing in the ESS, that there is a sub-delegation to the ESS and a lack of staff, and that there are regional disparities in structures and health services. If you adopt them, Minister, that we would have saved human lives if your Government had done so since the beginning of the pandemic of what we were asking you to do, in essence and in fact the National Health System. Far from us any mood of sterile, barren opposition, especially on such sensitive issues, such as patients, pandemic, ITH and MAF. But the pandemic already lasts two years. Public and private resources have been repaid and structural weaknesses remain. So what are you doing? Are you really trying to hide what's there? Epidemiological evidence reveals all these weaknesses. So finally proceed to what we were asking you and we continue to ask you, namely, for a real increase, appropriate staffing of the IF beds with qualified - essentially qualified - and experienced staff. It's not luxury, Minister. It's urgent. It's a primary option. It's a choice of life. And the second question I would like to ask you is this: because we also see the 'Omicon' mutation going ahead, what measures do you intend to take in particular? Because I am very afraid that, once again, we see your Government confronting what comes with an incredible amnesty, as you did in the second wave of pandemic and in the third, now, fourth, and some people say there will be a fifth. So tell us what measures you intend to take? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, you know better than me that the debate on the budget is Parliament's top debate, the most important one. Now, I find it difficult to understand the direct relevance of the results of a scientific study with the budget text. We are in front of a clear effort, particularly of the Officerial Response, to create impressions, making use of an issue of topicality. If the issue of topicality opens up, there will obviously be no budget debate. It is rather difficult for the opposition, based on the budget text, to create impressions and reverts elsewhere. I would also like to ask by taking advantage of Mrs. Gaga's presence. However, I will do so on another occasion in the context of the parliamentary work and in the Ministry of Health bill. But since colleagues are opening up to topical issues, I will not ask Mrs Gaga, I will ask the Qualified Opposition. For videos that circulate on visits to prosecutors for a specific case by top SYRIZA officials and on statements on control of the joints of power even of independent authorities dealing with tax revenues I did not find, I did not see, I did not find the same sensitivity from the headquarters of the Officer's Response to be placed. Why, Mr President? They are selectively treating timeliness as selectively attempting in a way that is fair to use the results of the selective investigation. It's them. That's how they keep going. They're not concerned about being away from society. It does not concern them that society turns their backs and their polls constantly show downwards from an untreated tactic that makes them think that what they have in their minds and their minds is reality. That is not the reality, as Mr Georgiadis quite rightly answered. You say that I do not ask a question, ladies and gentlemen. Has the Parliamentary spokesman not asked an hour ago exactly the same question to Mr Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u77	And he didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u78	You're judging he didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u79	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Bukkoro. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u80	I don't have any dialogue. Mr President, they are not selectively sensitive. Tell us about their visits to the prosecutors. What were they serving? Tell us about the control of the authorities. What they're serving. They're members of the legislature. With respect to discrimination of powers, have they heard nothing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u81	Give me pain!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u82	I would say, Mr President, that you have made things clear, that we should confine ourselves to the very important debate on the budget. But, you see, that's where they don't get the evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u83	Madam Minister, you have the floor. I would remind you that Mrs. Gaga is a doctor and indeed a dissatisfaction. But she's not here in her medical capacity. It is here as a member of the government and in this capacity it will respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to the Minister's status here, but I am indeed a doctor for thirty years in the ERC. Thirty years in HSY every winter the clinic had intubated sick persons outside the unit. We weren't dead. He was out of the unit and we put them in when we had a bed. The tightness of beds was much larger. I mean, we've got a lot more ITH now. They were created in the pandemic. For my hospital to tell you, for example, he had 12 IF beds at the university clinic, eight IF beds at the KAA, in the first unit of the country and nine MF beds that didn't work much. Today he has the fifty beds, which are a donation to the House. And I must thank you because this is really a breath work for the country. There are seventeen beds in the university clinic because they took a sponsorship and gave five more beds and all beds were made in the first unit in the country. So IF beds are unsolved much more this year. This year, as a hospital "Salvation" in the pandemic since the new unit started, we had sick intubators who had to stay at the clinic some hours until they moved to the facility. So the question of ICUs is something that has been well known for many years. There was tightness. Now because there are too many cases there may indeed be patients out of the ICU for some days. The movement is fast, that is, there are every day people who come out or who, unfortunately, end up in the ICUs and the sick who are out of their way and move as quickly as possible. To compare mortality you can't just take numbers because the sick have each other's different mortality, different age, different severity-gravity of the incident, different age-threatening - and fewer reserves in an Ninety-nineer than in a 40-year-old - and other morbidities. So there's no way to compare. And to tell you again that people who stay out of the unit and cannot be intersected because they are in a hospital that doesn't have a unit or for another reason, are those who can't move to other areas because they're too heavy because they need vasodilators, because they can't get into an ambulance. So there's no way to compare mortality. Of course some sick people are staying outside units. The effort is always to move, move and go to the units. So I think this is a matter that we have seen in all the countries. In other countries, we saw people respirators entering stadiums, as you remember. In big countries, with amazingly good health systems. Germany had to travel to Italy this year, now, after two years of pandemic. So I don't think it's a matter. The point is that what can be done is done. Respirators and machines have been given and the effort to see the sick is very good everywhere. And I really have to congratulate my fellow Members once again because the work they do is heavy and they are continuous. That gives them a weight. They don't see light, which is important. They see cases, that is, there's a lot to be done, and that's too heavy. Because otherwise you've been facing a pandemic and extraordinary situation for a month, or you've been dealing with it for two months. In two years, you're getting too tired, and you're saying something has to be done. And I really believe - I have said this in every way and every place - that it is important that we all take care of ourselves, our own, our health system and my colleagues. You spoke of support. Support for the ESS exists. It has also been done with private sector and private sector. And where we couldn't find people coming to help the system, we made a health service mission. And we'll do it again. In other words, our concern is that the sick should have good health services and colleagues who are in the health system whether they are nurses or are technicians, wherever they are, be able to cope with this increased burden of work. You're telling me about surgery. Indeed, there are some hospitals to which the surgery was reduced. I told you again that we've done too much surgery. In Heraklion, for example, nine rooms operate. Anesthetics, because they are too tired, are asking for eight to work. Eight rooms aren't a bit. Of course, some surgery will go a little further back. But it is not a huge issue. In Thessaloniki, which has many problems, in the "Hupperate", for example, we have moved the surgery to the private sector without any cost to the patient. Doctors are leaving together, too. So the problem is being dealt with. And it is treated in the best possible way all the time and wherever it needs to be done. In other words, they leave surgery if the anaesthetics and intensifiers of the sections where the hospitals are located cannot get through. That's why we're moving the surgery. So that the people who are there, the anaesthetics and the pressured intensives can do better than they do. So we move them to the private sector and they happen. So they may stop surgery inside the public eye, but these same surgery sends them to the private sector, and they are done without any charge for the patients. I don't have to tell you it's not happening. Yes, the circumstances are difficult. We do find solutions every day. We have constant contact with all health districts, with all doctors in all hospitals. I've personally visited, at the time I'm Minister, all hospitals in the 4th U.S., most hospitals in the 3rd H.S. and most hospitals in the 5th H.S.. I mean, we're doing everything we can. Everybody. And I'm not just talking about me. We're talking about the entire Department. We are talking about the Secretary-General, the Minister, the directorates of the Ministry, and of course the directorates of the Ministry, which are constantly above all hospitals. And the address of the hospitals. Beyond the sanitary, that is. You told me about the staffing of the ICUs. Let me tell you that in Germany, which has an excellent health system, the ICU law says that on each shift it must be an intensive specialist, even forty beds the ICU, who is assisted by other doctors, other specialists, such as pneumonologists. I'm telling you again that it's not us that way. We have intensifiers within the ICU and we have other doctors to assist. So the problems we have at the moment are problems of fatigue that are very understandable. They're problems of resentment of the people themselves that's on Burn out. And that makes sense, two years later. It's important to help. On the part of a government everything can be done to keep the system in a position to meet the needs of patients. Needs change daily and changes become daily. I can assure you that. Finally, you said something about the patent and the vaccines. With vaccines, the biggest problem isn't the patent. It is under which conditions it is produced. They're high-tech vaccines. Our pharmaceuticals said so, too. They want special places and ways of producing, which must be safe and approved. To do generic is very important and we have to do it. We must do so in an appropriate way, at the appropriate time, with appropriate procedures and appropriate control. So that's very important. In order to do this, there must be infrastructure. So far, the infrastructure has only been available to the companies that produce the vaccines. So that was the process. That is what I can tell you about the question you ask me, which is certainly not my concern. It is a matter of the European Union. To tell you again one thing I would like to ask you - because you told me about vaccination - and as a doctor I will tell you this: I think that countries that have a very good vaccination effect are countries where there were no different voices. Here and from a step of the House, we go out and say how many vaccinated people get into the unit, how many invasive people. The fact is that those who enter the facility and those who are in need of hospitalization are invasive. And that must be the message that we all give from this Step, from this space and from every place, to the world: Vaccineation now means security for each of us and fewer cases for the health system. So the message that we all give from this Step is: 'We are inoculated'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u85	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Mylonakis, what do you want? The session is over with Mrs. Gaga.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u87	He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u88	It's over, Mr. Mylonaki. You are an experienced man. Each of us and every minister as he thinks and you say we are satisfied or not satisfied. By the time Mr Constantopoulos came to Stepma, I would like to say about the patent that the G7, G8 met the G8 again the day before yesterday. Instead of taking steps to ensure that 11% of African vaccinated women become 91% and, in order to do so, they must throw money, buy vaccines and be sent, sit down and analyse where the 'Minicon' variant has faded. Well, I tell you that after "Omicon" the "Omega" will come out. As long as Africa - I say Africa as countries - is irreversible, that will be done, the 'Omega' will come. That's it. [[Applause]] Well, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the third day of the 2022 budget and the conclusion is one: the pandemic has sent a message to humanity. So what's the message? Turn to the state. He recalled that capitalism is going through upward and downward phases. It also reminded the State that it must intervene, correct imbalances, guide growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 750,000,000,000 Recovery Fund is a step forward for the European Union and highlights the state's potential to promote development. In this context, the Greek Government took measures worth 43,000,000 euros. And this, of course, to limit the economic and social impact of the pandemic. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises as to whether the distribution of these resources was fair on the one hand and rational on the other. This is because the measures were horizontal without any targeting. In the end, I would say that they gave some privileged access to liquidity through the banking system, while at the same time the majority is drowned by accumulated debts and suffocating loan terms. Red loans become a loop in households, ineffective proof of the project 'HRAKLIS' is provided. From this step, for four years now, we constantly say that we must follow the path of Cyprus, lead the borrowers of foreign fund, that is to say stay the houses and households to the households and not go to the fucked fingernails of the fund. Also, a characteristic example is access to bank lending, which had the possibility of only thirty thousand companies from the eight hundred and thirty thousand active VDUs. In conclusion, Minister, and Minister, this means that small businesses are being driven into extinction, i.e. staying outside bank borrowing and outside natural resources of the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in Greece the middle class lives with the memory of itself, while at the same time - I would say - it is constantly being curtailed by taxation and accuracy. Inflation in 4.8% is translated into increases, 17.8% in housing costs due to an increase in gas, electricity, heating oil, 9.2% in transport costs due to an increase in fuel prices, and at the same time, of course, we are talking about green growth. Take your conclusions. Increases of 3.8% in food and clothing costs due to an increase in main types of food and first need. Minister, the wave of precision is found in basic goods and has a direct impact on the quality of life of citizens, of course, with the lowest incomes, in the low and weaker strata in need of our support, while at the same time wages do not go hand in hand with the evolution of inflation. A characteristic example is that we have the most expensive telecommunications in Europe and, indeed, I would say here that we have Bulgaria's wages and European prices. And in the midst of that, the new generation of our country, people with increased qualifications, with degrees, postgraduate, doctorate, do not have the ability to live decently, dream, fall in love, stay in their own country, make their own family. And because of unemployment and low pay are being driven abroad, that is, continuing Brain Drain, while at the same time discussing a solution to the demographic situation. Take your conclusions. Another imbalance is HPAI, Mr Minister, Mr Pylakakakis, who, according to the budget forecasts, is reduced, changes in objective values do not allow for reductions. At best, taxpayers will pay exactly the same amounts over the past few years - and let this be retained. A great deal of indirect taxes, ladies and gentlemen. How can we talk about growth in three successive budgets, prefer indirect taxation and that to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises and the most vulnerable households? It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the government here is closing its eyes on the losses from VAT calculated at EUR 5.30,000, Minister. It taxes bonuses and dividends and donations up to 800,000 - I would say as a pro-investor here - when the investments are not substantially promoted. At the same time, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy, are not clearly included in the country's new development model. The weaknesses, ladies and gentlemen, the budget we are debating today are also evident in the area of culture and sport. No predictions and substantial support for the people of culture. Collective labour contracts do not exist. Black work remains dominant and young artists are also pushed in search of work abroad. That is, of course, the situation in sport too. Grants from the tax on bet profits have so far not reached amateur sport, which is what it is all about. It should be pointed out here that sport remains outside the resources of the Recovery Fund. In other words, there are no substantial initiatives for improving sports facilities and the digital upgrading of sports organisations, as well as the practical support of our athletes. To close, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the great challenge of our time, of climate change. Climate change is here and we all experience it every day. It requires actions and policies that will protect the environment and the citizens. They need synergies, and that is what it is all about. Ioannina, my constituency, is a felony - I would say - against extreme weather. The anti-military works of the Ionian Road have not yet been carried out, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this is also on your own responsibility, but also on the responsibility of the current government. It's a big problem. The Mediterranean is constantly flooded, the agony of people daily, the flooding phenomena - I would say - lead to uncertainty among citizens. From the extreme weather phenomena, ladies and gentlemen, disasters are huge. Let me take note here of the subsidence of the river Eugene, which has divided the two of Atalo-Carnania. Mr. Transport Minister, take a seat. I asked you a question on this. The water supply of the Messology area is carried out with obstacles. Farmers and farmers come, once again, ladies and gentlemen, faced with images of destruction from the intense weather phenomena. All of this, while their income is constantly shrinking, and the compensation is paid with great delays. The prices of agricultural products are crumbling and supplies prices are being launched. The water has arrived to be more expensive than milk, and this really is sad. At the same time, there are problems with forest maps, problems with grassland and eligible areas. All of this creates a system of bureaucracy that drowns any attempt to modernize and develop. However, ladies and gentlemen, today's budget is an executive - I would say - a weak budget. It does not give vision and perspective for the next day of the country. It does not create an environment of growth for businesses. It does not give solutions to the challenges of the Greek economy. It does not solve the daily problems of the citizens. That is why we are voting against it, of course, except for the articles on defensive expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u90	Mr Chrysomalis, Mr Psychogios, Mr Euthymou, Mr Lebanese Minister for Agriculture, will then speak. Mrs. Litikoli, welcome to new duties. Here you go, Mr. Chryssols, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member of this House, I had in mind that this debate on society is a deplorable and boring debate. Indeed, it was because he was fed up with hearing budgets that were not being implemented and he was bored and hearing budgets that, as a general rule, our fellow citizens had to reduce their income. For two or three years this has changed quite considerably and has changed for two reasons: firstly, because it sees that the government in question, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, implements the budgets it announces and is budgets that are 'flying in' - just to say it - and secondly, because they contain many positive measures for our fellow citizens. We can also understand that from the change in the criticism of the Opposition. It no longer says that we are reducing incomes, but their criticism is'support crumbs'. So we're giving. If we give crumbs or not, and if you give more and have entered this auction, our fellow citizens will judge it. In 2015, they believed you. Then they understood who the populist is and who the trusted one is and they continue to judge us as a government, how reliable we are and how you as a opposition continue and pluralize. That is what you are doing in this budget. We are listening at an unsatisfactory rate to your commonwealths because you lack the arguments and the essential proposals. You constantly do - and you are not tired - dramatic and catastrophic forecasts that are never confirmed, so you cannot receive the title of Cassandra either. However, you are surely tired of society, which is tired of listening to you constantly risking and saying that when the "second time left" comes it will be otherwise, it will state the banks, it will abolish the ADP, it will control the joints of power. We heard them today, the video of Mr. Polakis, who says he was holding a meeting with prosecutors to see how he would serve charges against the woman in particular, Mr. Stournara. I just hope he's a liar to Mr. Polakis and not to be true. But, if they are, justice must be dealt with, even self-cleared, if these prosecutors who participated in the conference - if they participated - are still active prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, you have tired the society of blaming us that we are not interested in a social majority, that only we are concerned about supporting the few and creating inequalities. But, really, do you live in another country? You do not live in the same country where you have applied for twenty-nine taxes, twenty reductions in pensions and increases in contributions. Did you forget? Make sure our fellow citizens haven't forgotten. Have you forgotten that you have retained the minimum wage of EUR 586, but also the lowest of EUR 511, you who are now being cut to increase it? Did you not know that, while respecting the truth agreement with the Greek people and despite the difficulties of the pandemic, this government has reduced the tax rates, reduced the tax advance, exempting the solidarity levy, reducing the insurance contributions, increasing the tax on parental benefits and donations and gradually increasing the minimum wage? Did you not realize that the 2022 budget is a budget for growth, without austerity measures, which follows our political and ideological choice, indeed, to reduce tax burdens and strengthen investment? If you want to blame us for that, too, we are happy to accept this accusation, very gladly! You continue in the health sector, and you blame us for reducing health expenditure in 2022 compared to 2021, making selective reading of the data provided by the Ministry of Finance and choosing to ignore or hide that the total health expenditure for next year will reach 11.7 billion, or 6.3 billion, of GDP, just as the European average. Also, in the health sector, they will cover 29% of the total assignments to be made for 2022, i.e. six thousand recruitments to the health sector. Do you remember, gentlemen of SYRIZA, what was yours? I will say information about 2019, the year you supposedly took us out of the memos: for health 9.1 billion - 2.5 million less - or 4.8% of GDP. The figures that I mentioned before are without the exceptional grant that exists and can also be increased depending on the course of the pandemic. You come to tell us that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is not interested in hospitals and medical and nursing staff, caveling over the course of the pandemic, that citizens are allegedly deprived of the right to care and access to public health. Who? You, who handed over one third of the intensive care units from what works today. Mercy, gentlemen of SYRIZA! Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget reflects the future of the choices made by the New Democracy Government over the past two years through the extremely unfavourable and unpredictable treaty that the pandemic has brought to the economy. We have essentially supported the health system, we have supported paid work, entrepreneurship by measure, with a real impact on the citizens' pocket. We are being recognised by the social partners, by GATT, which said the government's support packages saved entrepreneurship and employment. Thanks to the support provided by the government in 2021, it will close with growth of 6.9%, recovering 2/3 of lost GDP, and in 2022, a growth of 4.5% will be anticipated to ensure a return to normality and continued aid. You tell us that our economic policy is not effective and that is why you are not supporting the budget. Isn't industrial production steadily upward for ten months? Isn't the processing supported? Isn't economic activity growing? My fellow engineers know that. Isn't the credit support being reheated? Does the deposits not increase and at the same time does not consumption increase? With these options we will also manage the rise in inflation, which is indeed there and will be painful for the next few months. They are phenomena that concern us, as they concern the world community. Because we are not only interested in prospering numbers, but we are looking at people, looking at society, and with programme and proper design, we always take measures that support it. We don't claim infallibility or inconceivableness. We are ready to assume the responsibility of our choices and correct and omissions that may exist. Because we have our fellow citizens in mind, because we are working and that is our concern. We will be judged on our options, we will be judged on this responsibility, as will the opposition as to whether it is responsible or populist. I would invite you to close, not to vote in favour of the budget - because your obsession is such that you will not - but should be the National Representation, at least on the side of the defensive expenditure, to be a fist for the necessary equipment that the country is doing to defend our sovereign rights and our national security. Please even think about this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u92	Good. I would ask that the Step, to which my colleague is invited by SYRIZA Mr. George Psychoyos, will be prepared. Then, as I said, it's Mrs Anna Happily and then Mr. Lebanese. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the budget, I would like to comment on some of the things that Mr Georgiadis has heard, but also on other colleagues, who sounded like a clumsiness in our ears, because, in the government of Samaras, we were always listening to indicators, for growth, we heard about international houses that recognize us and backwards a huge humanitarian crisis, a society in bankruptcy, which, when SYRIZA came with empty funds, managed to support and save. So he wants a nerve to come and shake his finger on SYRIZA for this and to invoke indicators and numbers that threw us on the rocks, as he also wants to talk a lot about the way of counterpopulation. Here we have been in the past years and we have seen the micropolitical, the extreme right-wing populism and the specula you have done on every subject. I don't want to imagine what would happen if it were opposition now, New Democracy. We are now going to the budget debate, a top process, a X-ray, a skeleton, a framework for financial instruments, expenditure, strategic interventions for the economy and society. It shows the two projects, however, the two worlds that we represent. Is it a budget with the pandemic present, with the darkest colors for the country, a recovery budget, but for whom? A budget, compared with others, such as the Spanish, pale, 250 billion euros of budgets with 60% social costs, with the Minister of Finance saying that it needs to be diffused to everyone, because the recovery after the divestment will come, but the issue is who it will go to. And, of course, it shows your idealism, cynicism, lack of empathy, complete distance from reality, but also a recipe that has led us to bankruptcy, a huge financial adjustment, without even the pressure of the Stability Pact as such and the scandalous favor of the few and strong towards the workers and the small and medium-sized ones. It is a budget which does not take into account two more major crises, pandemic and accuracy. Neither EUR 1 billion nor EUR 12.3 billion less for support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the unemployed, for the workers and EUR 1.7 billion less for targeted social actions. It is a budget based essentially on the rapid disappearance of the pandemic and, obviously, the study Chiodra - Lytra exposes you irreparably and tragically for your responsibilities, the abandonment of the ESS, but also your sometimes-acceptable statements, which are unacceptable and which also give the opposite signal. And, of course, it is based on the transientity of inflation growth. However, the costs of households, small and medium-sized enterprises in the first need, raw materials, commissions go far beyond this increase, as well as the Recovery Fund, which is distributed to specific large groups and the NRP, which you call - and on the SYRIZ government there has been more absorption in our years and society knows - has blocked 1 billion euros, which has put the market and society into place. We therefore ask, in specific ways, like other European countries, for an increase in minimum wage to EUR 800 - and you can never forget that there has been an increase in the minimum wage, regardless of whether we wanted to go further, for what I have heard before - the third pension and not these crustaceans, the protection of the first residence for all - is in the air, huge social issue of the tenants for professional roofs, for housing - a reduction in excise duty on fuel at the European Union thresholds - which is a serious intervention and influences on the whole chain - programmes for young workers - is a tragic situation for the young people who have taken place and have targeted the previous period and left the country again in a massive amount - regulation and deletion of a part of the private debt, which has been created within the 100-dollar period, interventions by PPC - but what interventions to do, when the ‘Deltas’ has gone away from the market, and has not taken place of any more than the purchases of the government budget, and has not made any plans to re-sto-sto-sto-st-st-st-st-st-st-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t- I come quickly to the refugee-migrant, which is my responsibility for the parliamentary group. Pope Francis came and actually exposed both the Greek Government and Europe. Instead, Mr. Mitarakis told us that the curtain of the refugee-immigrant has fallen, as all the means and management in the field and the Greek claims have been hidden in Europe, which instead of asking for relocations, to make alliances and collective decisions, will become the shield of Europe, a store of souls, a jailer and crocodile on behalf of Visegrad and, of course, with people of alpha and beta and gamma of category. Three months have not been given the financial aid, asylum seekers, recognised refugees in the vacuum and, of course, your strategy for integration with wishes, without specific actions. What for? Because you have a conservative and far-right public to serve and poison local societies that showed such solidarity. You insist that the three hundred contractors - which you canceled - do not move on, invoking the AACC and we never see it. Seventeen thousand applications had been made for the administration of the Ministry. And what are you doing? Outsourcing, post-mortem everywhere, private individuals, EUR 6.2 million contracts for technical advice, when you have privatised the Service itself, EUR 410 million for feeding and is currently inadequate in structures, EUR 480 million framework agreements for restoring damage and the management of structures. And now we have contractors' workshops there and the public works and contractors leave. And, of course, spending on fences and prisons that are national resources and which the Pope himself said are not responding to the issue, which wants to be addressed in a comprehensive way. Relaunches and disappearances, for which the European Commissioner is already calling us to give answers and targeting on a humanitarian issue, which will not stop in the coming years and requires collective solutions, the fight against the causes that create it, legally safe paths, which are also a response to the work done by Turkey, Belarus and others. Mr President, going to the end, we have the Minister here to tell us how all the producers in Corinth and elsewhere are on the verge of impoverishment for the raisin, for the lemon, for the acarpest, for the compensation from the ice, but I will say this: you are visioning a jungle-based society, which will be the prevalence and survival of the most powerful, the one that can, to the weakest. We say that we need a society of cohesion, justice, with the support of the social majority, the safeguarding of labour rights, the protection of the budget for social rights - education, health, sport, services of general interest - support for the primary sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, the fight against inequalities - which are not legal, as you say - and the protection of the environment by the armoring that is needed, by the recruitment and permanentization of seasonal and its value as wealth and not by the interests. But you're blaming us that we're the past and you're the future. You are really the oldest of the old, completely out of reality and social situation and as long as you govern you will level and kneel society. The future is: Policies of equality, social justice and redistribution through a progressive and left-wing government, to keep society up and that is why we are working. This is the great responsibility of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance towards society and the Greek people who have passed the pandemics in recent years and have been working for it intensively, with the social actors and the movements and you will see it when the time comes. Don't rush! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Anna Euthymou, Member of the Thessaloniki Parliament, has the floor. Here, Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Gaga has given precise answers on the intrusion and care you take and outside and within ICU. The pandemic is in front of us, and I think we need to deal with it in unity. The example of Britain, which was passed in the last bill on additional measures to deal with the 'Omicon' mutation, with the votes of the workers, is a characteristic. I think that is what he says a lot about the way in which the Civic Opposition and Opposition generally have to deal with the issue of the management of the pandemic. As far as the budget is concerned, it is a realistic optimistic budget. I will deal with two political axes: the social sign and the development sign, always in the light of accuracy, which is a very serious problem. A structural feature of a budget is to adopt policies which consolidate social justice, as is the budget being voted on. The aim is dual: To protect workers and protect vulnerable social groups, to see what happened in 2021. There is also an answer to Mr Skourletis, who said that the wages of dependant work remained fixed. But I did not hear what happened with the reduction of unemployment, that it was actually reduced in 2021, and it will be reduced further in 2022. Nor have I heard anything about reducing the longterm unemployed. On page 37 of the report, it is noted that 8 percentage points have been reduced, which is translated into a quadruple reduction in the number of long-term unemployed against the total unemployed. I also did not hear anything about the increase in the wages of dependent workers, which was said by Minister Stakoras, 4.1%. But let us see what the government is doing to deal with accuracy. Measures to increase the availability of income such as tax reduction, shall be adopted permanently. Secondly, a reduction in insurance contributions. Let me note that SYRIZA has voted against it and that the SYRIZA's claims are against Table 3.2 page 58 of the report, which says that the balance of social security institutions is surplus, and for the sake of the OAED grant and the loss of revenue from the state budget. Increasing minimum wage. And here I will stand, and I will not talk about the increase that will take place from 1-1-2022, which we said was symbolic. I will talk about the second increase announced by the Prime Minister himself, which will take place in 2022 and will be more substantial. And this is important, and indeed as a government MP I had first pointed out the need for an increase in the minimum wage, I am particularly satisfied. But I did not hear any speakers from SYRIZA talking about this Prime Minister's announcement. Here too, and in the context of the need to strengthen citizens' incomes to deal with accuracy, but also with the good course of the economy - if it goes on - I think we should make a generous increase in the minimum wage. And I say this because according to EUROSTAT's survey, Greece is the only country that has not increased the minimum wage since June 2011. The wages have been lower, that is to say, than in other European countries. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And that's what I have to propose. Because we really must support businesses too, let there be a further reduction in employers' contributions for those who pay the minimum wage. Another important issue is pensioners. Let's see what SYRIZA's government has done. The ESS has been abolished. So what did he do? Finish the low pensioners. Vote the law of Katrugalo, personal difference. In one accounting way it forced the retired people's middle class right now to owe some of them never to see, but never, increases in their pensions. So what did he do? He dramatically curtailed the middle class of the retired. I also think it is not politically correct that SYRIZA should speak of fiasco in retrospectives, when exactly the retrospectives that the current government has given were offset by the personal difference. On this point, on the basis of my professional and scientific training, but also of the positive prospects of the economy, I will put forward two proposals, which the government will assess and put forward in time. As soon as the budgetary area allows it, I believe that we need to adopt a permanent low-pension mechanism and rethink ways of restoring this injustice of the SYRIZA government, or partially restore or whatever way we find, in relation to the personal difference of the pensioner. Of course, I hope that the endless expectation of the outstanding pensions will soon be brought to an end, as promised by the Minister responsible. With regard to SYRIZA's criticism of the reduction of social benefits, I would like to show Table 3,27 for OPEKA, which actually shows that nothing changes compared with 2021 in the 2022 budget. With regard to the so-called reduction in unemployment benefit, it is firstly justified why the two-month extension of unemployment benefit to the unemployed and the long-term unemployed is stopped and also justified by the increase in employment. On the development potential of the budget we have two very important financial instruments: the Public Investment Programme 7.8 billion and the Recovery Fund 3.2 billion. Government policies are instituting a model of growth in smart growth, a green transition, digital transformation, infrastructure development, extroversion. There are also 3.3 billion budget interventions in that direction. And here, Minister, I would like to point out that it might be beneficial to introduce a transitional phase for enterprises that will actually be affected from time to time, such as retail trade. Now they have the old supplies, with the old prices. They'll have to buy with the new prices. Maybe you should rethink that. In conclusion, it is a budget that is hopeful, because it also supports the new generation. The Prime Minister has already done so by electing a secretary, Mr Marinakis, a representative of the new generation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Before I finish my speech by voting in favour of the budget, I would like to raise a very important social issue: the issue of vengeful pornography. I'm on a regular basis. I have put it from my speech in the House about amending the Criminal Code that we need to amend it and punish it as an autonomous crime of sexual offence and I am glad that Mr Tsiaras said so on a morning show today. I have tabled and tabled a question on this matter today. We are talking about an online rape with disastrous consequences, and I think that needs unity both from the government and from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. The Minister for Rural Development and Food has the floor now, Mr Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the third budget tabled by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, a budget for development, at a socially sound and positive rate, as a result of the government's systematic reform work and the international recognition of the consistency and pragmatism of the Greek Government's policy, a budget which, to be honest, is voted in really difficult and particularly - for what this means - unpredictable conditions. The COVID pandemic, the climate crisis and, of course, the energy crisis and inflationary pressures, which are largely dependent on the energy crisis, create conditions for a perfect storm. However, with full consciousness of the pressures that the whole of our society is taking, but without the populist krone I have heard for a long time in this House from opposition, with a stable hand, the government has led the country safely. This is precisely the stability we have shown in the primary sector, which is the dominant priority of this government, but also the country's growth engine for the years to come. This is precisely the stability we have shown in the primary sector, which is the dominant priority of this government, but also the country's growth engine for the years to come. We are finally forming a national strategy for the agricultural sector, a national strategy that was missing, a national strategy that was never shaped in the years of SYRIZA, unfortunately. We move on to areas that are essential, creating the background to develop the Greek rural economy on a firm foundation. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] But before that, with targeted measures, we are strengthening social cohesion, trying to ease both the consequences of the pandemic and those of the energy crisis. For example, I only mention some of them. We have done to support producers from the consequences of pandemic and natural disasters over 900 million euros. We suspended the payment of public service charges. We have been applying from 2022 for the first time since 2016 the refund of excise duty on oil. The Prime Minister a few minutes ago, entering the Council in Brussels, when he will raise the issue of the energy initiative again, in order to take action pan-Europeanly on the issues of price increases, said clearly that the government will receive new provision within the financial framework and, as these allow us, for our farmers and announce the relevant measures next Saturday here in Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In addition to the necessary crisis management, however, we are also moving with planning for the future. I am therefore starting with our very passionate, but also promising, with many possibilities, livestock farming. It is actually the first of the multiple crises, and that is why we have been dealing much more with other sectors in the last few years. We are trying with all the means we have to give it new impetus, in fact supporting our farmers in practice. That is why we are implementing a more comprehensive framework of interventions with the hampering VAT reduction in feedingstuffs to 6% of the 13%, the vote a few weeks ago on the establishment, modernisation and operation of livestock establishments - very important draft law for our farmers - the establishment of a working group to draw up a national strategy which, if any, would provide for many of the problems that we are currently experiencing. One of these is the increase in feed prices, and that is why in the new context, which we presented to the House ten days ago, you saw those people who are following these issues that we are supporting livestock and animal feed at 35 million a year through related aid, i.e. an extra 35 million a year. If this aid to feed had been made for SYRIZA days, we might have solved many of the problems of production costs today. However, we have also taken other relevant legislative initiatives. Law 4792 was passed on unfair trade practices in the agricultural sector, guaranteeing the payment of producers in 30 days for vulnerable products and in sixty days for other agricultural products. We have given a solution during the pandemic to the process of revoking citizens of third countries who wish to come as land workers in order for our producers to increase their labour requirements. It's a very big problem, we keep finding it in front of us. The best thing, of course, would be to have a definitive solution and not to go with continuous extensions, but pandemic causes us problems in this. We have also given farmers the opportunity to produce from RES for their own use up to 500 kW instead of 100 kW that was the limit to this day. This is also very important. Most of all, however, 2020 - 2021 is a landmark year for the future of Greek agriculture, because in 2021 two important tools have been hid, with which we are essentially creating a new course in the agri-food sector. Firstly, the cycle of negotiations at European level for the new CAP has been successfully closed and by the end of the year we will have deposited as a country - we presented it in the House, as I said earlier - our national strategic plan, a plan that specialises the common agricultural policy and the way we manage the 20 billion. That's a lot of money. Watch out. And that alone was a great national success, because in all the other countries this amount was reduced by about 10% to 15%. If we were to fall, you realize we'd lose two or three billion. With a full sense of our historical responsibility, we have chosen to formulate this plan that I saw before you and the farmers throughout Greece. We have held 13 conferences in the last year involving more than a thousand five hundred representatives and involving many farmers online now. And if these are added to another eleven, if I'm not mistaken, in the first year of our government's governance, that means twenty-four regional conferences. In other words, there has been a substantial dialogue. One way or another and all the political forces were there, except one, of SYRIZA, unfortunately. So we have together with our farmers a development proposal, but with a social person, who promotes justice, supports the new generation and substantially strengthens the Greek region. At the same time, we are making use of the transitional period of 2021 - 2022, the one we are now, triggering 2 billion at our disposal by calling for innovative programmes. I have a series of things that I prefer to table in the Minutes to see. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Just so that the list of young farmers, which exceeds 420 million, is not too long. In other words, there is more than double the money we give, which means much for the future of agricultural production. I would like to stress here that, while in the past, in previous years, there has been a programme that has been running for five, six years, we are planning this year, in 2023 a new programme for young farmers and in 2025 a new programme for young farmers, so that we can strengthen their participation in the primary sector. Secondly, the 2 billion of the Recovery Fund was finalised. In total, these 22 billion people understand how they can revive the primary sector. In order to make use of them, however, we need something missing, which has never been prepared, namely a national rural development strategy. Its central pillars are the modernisation of the country's environmental infrastructure with "YDOR 2.0", a realistic programme of 1.6 billion, which will be twenty-five years in depth with twenty-five years, with twenty-three irrigation projects in the first place, while at the same time a regulation to change the way the GEB operates. Secondly, we are streamlining our productive framework. Following the doctrine of 'transparency for everyone and everything', we press off violation practices and we create a modern and effective framework of controls. So, through this, we are strengthening our PDO products and already, in contrast to something that has been said before, prices in sheep and goat milk precisely because of these checks from EUR 0.80 at the beginning of the year have reached EUR 1.35. In addition, we streamline the distribution of European subsidies. We obviously had reactions from individual groups here. But we work for the many. We work for the real farmers and farmers. Thirdly, we support young people in practice. I told you before that, from EUR 15 000, the admission premium will be EUR 40,000. Fourthly, we invest in education and training. We have founded six public IECs. We are planning a map that will reach more than twenty public IEKs and, at the same time, we are doing business programs. "There is now a programme of olive-growing and apiculture in the northern Aegean Sea and in Itolo-Carnania. We continue with the aim of strengthening entrepreneurship, extroverting, supporting the Greek countryside, aged renewal, modernization and rationalisation, the green digital transition and the promotion of the Greek food as a "brand" of unique value and global visibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that in the Ministry with the national rural development strategy that we are implementing, we are basically responding to the challenges of the future. We carry out courageous reforms, we transform our agricultural model, we remove chronic distortions and inequalities - very important also - in favour of young people, we support small and medium-sized producers - the backbone of our production -, we create a strong productive base, we reconstruct through all these rural ones. I want to believe that it is an effort collectively and primarily super-party for the benefit of the Greek and Greek farmers who deserve the respect and admiration of all of us and thus for the benefit of the social cohesion of the Greek region and sincerely wish the whole of our economy and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u98	Mr Apostolos has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA, followed by Mr Lambroulis on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece. Parliamentary representatives mean that what Mr Kaklamanis said just now is true. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the year that goes away was for our country the year of unprecedented catastrophic crises. The coronary continues to beat our unorganized country unorganized, with thousands of dead, and at the same time the government provides public health budget cuts. The wounds from the summer disasters are not closed, and while one would expect the government to plan and plan interventions that would heal them and address the next day, it is only for communication management. The Minister said a moment ago about the efforts they have made and successfully completed the negotiations on the common agricultural policy. Minister, see and a little that the previous government had made huge efforts, because it had too many problems when the new CAP story began. I will only refer to the full external convergence, which was demanded by the countries of the North and which had created an alliance that would have a huge impact on the aid we would receive as a country. So there we have given a very tough negotiation, which has lasted years and we have managed to get total convergence out of it and to see some of it in the future, of course, like the other issues, because we do not have the necessary time. However, this success we have had - and you are also taking advantage of it - has not seen in the drafting of the national strategic plan that you have already served. And it had to be a long time ago - it is something that we have constantly protested - that you have completed the national strategic plan. Minister, when in crisis there is a huge impact on the rural area and you, not only on the basis of the budget, are reducing spending - and I repeat you are reducing spending every year - and you do not anticipate funding to deal with these crises, then we are sure that at some point all of us will ask ourselves: Why are so many fields left to be devastated? Why do herds fall? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is simple. Why you are unable to see agricultural production as a pillar of rural development and residence in their villages. This is the most basic targeting. I will stand up to two, three problems that I consider to be major, and you have also raised them. You talked about livestock farming. Minister, you know that right now the entire province is on the way, because you and the Ministry of the Environment have not understood what happens with the grassland land that after their mapping has to be delivered to the agricultural use, but also with the Omnibus and the law on grazing land, not only because they increase the eligible areas for livestock, but also because they allow the change of use to be made to them by means of the OSCE declaration. You have tools. You don't know? However, you do not use them. Finally, proceed with the drafting of the management plans. It is a pity that these grazing lands are not counted in the new programming period. Don't delay any more. The losses to the livestock sector will be huge. As it is a pity, and I will say it once again, that you are giving the feta with the agreement on South Africa to its usurpers. Please do not do so, particularly in the agreement with Canada that is coming these days - the government's choice is when - to ratify. We were able to do so with this statement, which I have told you before, so that, if Canada does not comply, if the whole procedure is not in conformity with the protection provided for in the declaration, we will not ratify this agreement. Why would he bring? It's just going to wipe out the ovine and caprine industry. But let us come to our own, especially in northern Evia. Two days ago, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, came, for the first time after the catastrophic fire in northern Evia, along with half the Ministerial Council, to attend a organised for the third time, - I repeat it for the third time - by Mr Beno, to again present the scholars who have undertaken to draw up projects - and I stress it particularly when I say the scholars - who will present them in a distant future. The fact is that they will be presented by the next government. The climate of euphoria and arrogantness that prevailed between the government stadium in the ashes of Evia has depressed our compatriots. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not feel the need to deal with the great problem that the people of the region have, which is no more than ensuring their survival. That is the big issue, and there was no placement here. Of course, here, he did not feel the need to respond to the deaths of those who are imprisoned in the out-of-season units. We, ladies and gentlemen, insist that none of the villageers should leave. And those conditions must be created, through a strategic plan, by providing more employment opportunities. I would also like to make a proposal, because when we talk about the crises, particularly the fires, which we will have from now on more often than the previous years, this issue certainly needs to be reviewed. There's a Goldmer conclusion. You also agree on this finding, this one, but you have done absolutely nothing, all this time, to implement it. Because if this finding is implemented, then - what is also required for the inhabitants to remain in their areas - a very large part will have to deal with the natural environment, with the forest, with the protection, protection, protection, prevention, and you realise that this is how we have the great problem to solve, but also at the same time the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Apostle, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u101	I shall end here, ladies and gentlemen, by saying again that, with regard to specific issues relating to the investments you make with wind parks in the province, you have also raised the local communities there. So you can imagine that when you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u102	In the next House to tell your party to put you president. This means that the MPs will not intervene underneath. Firstly, others have spoken more. Secondly, you have a parliamentary representative to protest. Mr. Apostle, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u103	Mr. President, I'm closing. Because we lived while we had burnt fires, producers' licenses for wind energy to burnt down, you realize that such tension has been created in the area in general, which finds its inhabitants constantly on the road.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Apostle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u105	Keep it in mind. That's what I'm telling you! Thank you so much and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u106	Mr Levane, you have the floor for a minute. Open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u107	...other than that, I stayed in ten minutes, respecting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u108	You were 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u109	Oh, twelve did I go?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u110	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u111	I'm sorry. I just wanted to say that we in the New Democracy, Mr Apostleu, fully respect the efforts you have made. So, whatever struggle you've had for external convergence, we've given you a great deal of joy and everything else you've done in the European forums. We have a common place. In view of your speech, I have seen that you have been trying to disagree with your tone, and you are basically in agreement with what we have said. For the record only to be recorded in the Minutes that we are the first country to prepare the strategic plan and to be filed, not late, but we are the first country of all Europeans. As far as the drafting of the management plans is concerned, I think it is funny what you said. We have signed ten out of thirteen, two of which are taken over, because the regions cannot handle them, and one of which we expect the Region of Central Macedonia to come to sign it. You gave three postponements, because you couldn't sign one. On the major issue of the Agreement with South Africa, firstly, what you accused us of bringing it, SYRIZA voted. Secondly, what we have done is exactly what you have said, namely within the five-year debate on the revision of the European Convention with South Africa. So don't create false impressions, because no one's going to be watching you. And finally, for Evia, I think it is clear - and everyone knows it - that every day there is a government official. Every day! What first time? He just went to a group of ministers with the Prime Minister to make a recapitulation. We do not refer to the future. The farmers, both resin and apiculture have been supported. All efforts have been made to create a grid of social and economic support. At the level of anti-corrosion and flooding, a lot of work has been done, led by Mr. Amyras from the Ministry. You know it's tens of miles that have been built. Right now, you're coming to speculate politically on what? To tell you it's not an attempt when it's universal recognition that it's done? You cannot speculate on the pain of the Greeks. And, of course, that's where you didn't even come out of your voice, you can't and it's SYRIZA's fault trying to speculate micro-partyly on the deaths of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u112	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u113	No, Mr. Apostle, please very much. He didn't say anything that affects you personally. He did not say anything to ask for the floor on staff. Now Mr Lambroulis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece and then Mr Tarantilis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Although she is not here, we have just heard Mrs Gaga, the Deputy Minister for Health, who has been placed on a number of health issues and, of course, on the occasion of the development of the pandemic. In fact, what has been said by her is a challenge. Do you really have anything to do with what the world is pulling, the patients, the sanitation? Do you know what's going on in hospitals? Of course, we heard - I will not catch all of them, because we will have the opportunity to talk about them in the bill, in the bill submitted - that the thousands of five hundred patients, sick, fellow citizens, our fellow citizens - as you say they did - did not survive, so they did not die, because there were no beds ICUs, from September to May of '21, according to the Tsiodra - Lytra. Does that mean anything to you? Who's to blame for that? Whose responsibilities are these? However, Mrs Gaga, in the 7th Pulmonary, from what she told us, was hospitalising - because she is now a minister - and is enclosed there in the public hospitals where pulmonary patients are hospitalized. Well, not just a challenge! As far as the surgery is concerned, he told us, he mentioned the example of Heraklion, the situation in Thessaly, because he went from Thessaly to northern Greece, Macedonia, Thrace and said. They have stopped surgery or suspended their operation by 80%, with a number of decisions - they know that, they have in their office, the Ministry, the Ministers, etc. - State rulers, hospital managers, that is to say, the logic of converting hospitals to one-stop shops. Isn't that what he knows? And what did he say from Stepma? That everything is actually going well - up and down - even that the government is trying. That's what he was missing, he wasn't trying! But he stays trying. The results! Of course, what are the responsibilities? As far as the budget is concerned, Mr President, the insufficient expenditure, the new cuts for health, hospitals and primary health care by 279 million, not only will they not be effectively confronted with the health problems of our people, but at the same time they show that the State will not only be responsible for financing all the measures necessary to deal with the pandemic, other diseases, to take substantial measures for public health, health and safety, but also to strengthen primary health care. In fact, they remain intact - and this confirmed by Mrs Gaga's position - and all those conditions are maintained that over time have shaped a health system in proportion to the current possibilities and needs of our people for the protection and restoration of their health. So even the government's claim that there is no reduction, but an increase in the funds allocated because of the coronary is not only a challenge, but is a huge lie. Here the political responsibilities of both the current Government of New Democracy and all the previous ones, SYRIZA, PASOK, New Democracy earlier, are enormous, regardless of their individual differences, since they have fully supported and supported the anti-grassroots policy of competitiveness and the strengthening of business activity in health, in the context of the development that has as the "motor" of the business groups. In addition, the Government, both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA, the PASOK, and the other urban parties, are in agreement with the European Union's guidelines for the drastic reduction of so-called 'non-wage costs', which means sub-financing by the State for the operation, staffing, equipment of public health units and, at the same time, a drastic reduction in the free provision of services to patients from public health units and EOPY, which, by the way, are also being reduced in the new budget by 245 million. So this is the main reason why the outcome of all the plans of different governments leads from bad to worse the terms of life and health of the people. Just the pandemic period, with the tragic results for the people, has shown that the development of the health system in the capitalist economy and the profits of business groups is incompatible and in conflict with popular needs. However, it has also highlighted the enormous contradictions and contradictions of the system you are all serving, which is the fact that, as the potential of science, technology and the many health personnel are expanding, the hardship of the people is expanding. This is precisely what reflects the limits of this exploitation system, which extends the distance between the current possibilities and conditions of their exploitation by the people. The situation will deteriorate even further, since this policy which has led us to the formation of this disgusting and dangerous health system for the people does not only continue, but is presented by the government and as a solution. That is what we heard, at least in summary, from Mrs Gaga a moment ago. We, however, the JRC, when we say about a health system, mean combined public health and health services and whether these factors with state funding strengthen people's free care. Does that result from the budgetary items? Oh, no. Firstly, it does not appear anywhere that state expenditure is a reinforcement of public health establishments with health personnel. There is recycling and very much the permanent positions announced and reopened by the government, which is 'dark in the ocean', will come to replace subsidiary staff. Secondly, there is nowhere even elementary reinforcement of public primary health care in infrastructure, staff and others. On the contrary, for 2022 we have a cut of 140 million. Truly, how different would things be for our people, especially in pandemic conditions, if there were a developed public primary health care system for population education in prevention measures, with particular attention being paid to the most vulnerable sections, the elderly, chronic patients, etc., for personalised intervention to address fears and questions about vaccination? What does it show up here? That the shortages in staff as well as the health shortages in certain specialities are aspects of the same anti-grassroots currency. It is the result of the innate weakness of the capitalist organization of the economy to design and distribute the necessary number of health professionals by industry, specialities, etc., since it cannot meet what the medium-term needs of the people are. So on the one hand there are no permanent recruitments, because they cost, and on the other they do not train doctors, nurses, that is, those who are required, because the criterion of all of you is that we cannot have staff and infrastructure that will break the cost-benefit rule. The result is that in different regions there is a contradiction: whether there are shortages of skills and infrastructure and the people are not cared for or there is a variety of specialities and infrastructures, but their exploitation by an important part of the people is difficult to reach. How different would the situation for our people be if public primary health care were doing its essential role, namely primary prevention? But that is why thousands of health workers from all branches and specialties are naturally required throughout Greece to serve public primary care units twenty-four hours a day, three hundred sixty-five days a year. This, however, for capitalism, namely the system you are serving, is an unacceptable waste, since it must have money for healthy people, so that they do not get sick. That is precisely what this year's government budget expresses itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Lambroulis, finish up. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, it does not appear anywhere that patients will not continue to pay entirely equal percentages for a series of tests, physiotherapies, additional special treatment services and go by saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u117	But you're not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u118	Fourthly, the expenditure foreseen for the promotional institutions and the various benefits provided show your miserable pre-previous policy. All the above and many more confirm that the hundreds of dead and the specified crime with the huge shortages of IF beds, the smashed primary health care, which even undermines the necessary mass vaccination of the population, hospitals-region are not the result of the unprecedented pressure exerted on the health system, but of the same policy, the same strategy as the governments, while constantly the reduced funds to hospitals and health structures are a "push" customer to the private sector, "gift" for the civic brigades.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u119	Put it down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u120	All this is evolving at a time when health specialisation takes huge proportions, which requires deeper and more systematic cooperation, uniform treatment of patients and diseases from health and organised health units.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u122	I'm closing, Mr. President. Developments in the health sector also confirm that the people have in front of them or the way in which they will be able to satisfy their social needs or the current healthist as a commodity. Therefore, in order to find a solution from the point of view of people's needs and rights, and to health and medicine, workers, people's strata need politically to punish the current exploitation system and its supporters, to strengthen the fight to overthrow it, in order to eliminate the objective conditions that make life all worse. It's up to them, because only the people can save the people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. Look at that. They have spoken three colleagues from ten minutes each. Also, the Minister spoke two or three more minutes. We're not gonna end this way. I just want to tell you this very simple thing: A seven-minute speech is a thousand words. It may be a thousand two hundred if we denounce it very quickly, but then nobody will understand anything. Adjust the speeches to the thousand words, the basics that everyone wants to say. It is known to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Modern Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management, Management and Promotion of Destination, Viral Sources of Greece and other arrangements for strengthening tourist development". Mr Christos Tarantilis from the New Democracy has the floor. Next is Mr. Nassos Athanasios from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is the second in turn drawn up in conditions of health crisis and international economic uncertainty. This uncertainty is increasing both from the unpredictable development of the pandemic and from the unstable changes in prices of commodities and raw materials, which affect conditions of social well-being. Despite adverse conditions for our economy, estimates shape the country's growth rate for 2021 to 6.9%, for 2022 to 4.5%, a performance that occurs at the third highest growth rate in the euro area. In view of this, our country seems to be overcoming the significant downturn of 9% in 2020, indicating that in 2022 domestic product losses can be restored and there will be a further increase of this in relation to 2019. This optimism is reinforced by the steady decline in unemployment, as recorded by ELSTAT, which, in my opinion, is a very important signal for the country's return to growth, since the increase in labour market participation is a factor of economic prosperity and growth. According to the published figures in September 2020, unemployment in the country was 16.5%, while in September 2021 it fell to 13%, i.e. improved by three and a half units. In addition to the lifting of all kinds of restrictive measures in economic and social life, these results are mainly due to the truly brave state financial support of households and businesses, which cumulatively exceeds EUR 43 billion on a cash basis in 2020 - 2022, but also to the strengthening of economic growth from the additional resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. These fiscal expansion policies have shown that they have made a decisive reduction in the budgetary consequences of the pandemic, prevented the creation of a generalised pandemic and supporting social cohesion, today favour the path of declining public debt as a percentage of GDP, so that our country remains on a development path. These results have not been achieved in vacant but are a product of systematic implementation of a comprehensive and coherent reform plan and necessary interventions, which has been implemented, despite the pandemic constraints, in all areas of the public sphere. With this in mind, this year's budget attempts to record and signal the transition of the economy to a high and stable environment by implementing a realistic and well-structured budget mix, which, firstly, strengthens the country's health system towards the evolving health risk, maintaining budgetary appropriations for interventions due to the COVID pandemic at high levels. Secondly, it continues to channel money into the real economy for the protection of the pandemic of industries and businesses, with the provision of EUR 3.5 billion in 2022 totalling EUR 43.3 billion, which is the third largest support package for the economy in the euro area in terms of GDP. Thirdly, it provides the necessary resources to the Ministry of National Defence, committing appropriations increased by 808 million compared to 2021 for the implementation of new armaments programmes necessary to strengthen our country's defence capacity. Fourthly, it insists on the basic policy of gradually reducing tax rates, which, on the one hand, increases the available income of citizens, on the other, improves the investment prospects for our country and, on the other, lastly, forms through the National Recovery and Resilience Plan a more extroverted, competitive, innovative, green and digital production model, which will also form the basis for a solid and sustainable country growth in the years ahead. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that this year's budget also introduces a number of innovations, which aim to increase the efficiency of the State on the basis of performance indicators on expenditure and revenue control and to increase the availability of information and transparency. In fact, this is a reform that allows the budget to be presented with performance elements, a methodology called the 'presenceal approach' and achieves the systematic use of the performance information on expenditure and the results achieved, strengthening the best, more rational and clearly transparent decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis received a strong mandate in July 2019 to put the country in orbit of radical reforms and development. This request, despite the constraints imposed by the unforeseen outbreak of the pandemic, never ceased to be at the forefront of its priorities. The 2022 budget incorporates a reasonable estimate that the development prospects will outweigh the consequences of the pandemic and is the tool that supports public health, strengthens social cohesion and creates the conditions for transition to a security, sustainable development and progress environment. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the development budget for the year 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Athanasios from SYRIZA, followed by Mr. Bartzokas from New Democracy, closes the cycle with Mrs.Adamopoulou from Mera25 and Mr. Vlao from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Members of the New Democracy via the Bureau. Well, don't you even the government's finance minister you're supporting? Not even him? You don't read the newspapers that support you. But neither the Minister of Finance? Didn't Mr. Stavros say that it wasn't idyllic and that there were risks ahead? Didn't that clone anyone? Is your party fever so much? I think that apart from the Tsiodra - Lytra report Mr Mitsotakis is trying to hide something else. Mr. Stavros might not be able to withstand it and make such suggestions yesterday, that things are not idyllic. To put the type of sunshine. First of all, the solution to a problem presupposes that it is objectively objective, that it is dismantled by emotions, that it is depersonalized and even converted into figures. This is the one side of the coin. But the other side, otherwise the coin is useless, must also be given strong name. After depersonalisation we have to go back to personalisation. The humiliation of personal, subjective elements is just as necessary as its reintroduction into the problem. The reason is simple and firm. Behind the numbers there are people. Behind the numbers are the many, the small and the eagles, but not the democracies. Our economy has been glowing since the growth of GDP. Huh? But look at an analysis of the CFD. Others are doing analyses except for Mr. Chiodra and Mr. Lytra. Let's go to the heart of the Greek society. Mom, father, two kids. High levels of poverty are observed in families with two children, it refers to this JRC report. Let us also mention the rapporteur, the scientist, is Mr. Blassis. The analysis shows that the inequality indicators in Greece are high. Greece is ranked among those countries of the European Union that belong to the category of new members, namely the countries of the flawless memory of the 'Eastern Coalition', that is, we became Bulgaria or Romania. And that was the only example! PPC was saved, causing another brilliant government victory. But consumers were incinerated. The power hit them, the heavy and unresolved costing I want to say. Another case where numbers come out, but, in common, people do not come out. Another case where depersonalisation for objective reasons should always be transformed into individualisation on the grounds of elementary humanity. So here's where you can't be an economist, Mr. Taradili, who I'm giving you without being a politician. The economy is necessarily a policy. It doesn't look like medicine, as our lenders thought. The economic phenomenon of the times is tragic for large parts of the population. The basic, elementary, first need, bread and cheese, onion and olive are now being affected. It's not an exaggeration. I'll tell you something that might make you laugh, but also understand. The largest inflation feeders in the United States are housing, transport and food sectors. They're talking to the Senate. "These are elementary, not luxury," he said, addressing the democratics a diverse archival republican, Mitch O'Connell. Things are dark even for large countries. The world economy's locomotive itself is on the rise. I shall refer to a news published today. They should be concerned and not celebrated for the low interest rates so far. In the earlier agenda of a debate on the accuracy caused by Alexis Tsipras, Mr Mitsotakis did something unprecedented, in my view. He asked for a consensus, asked for a co-responsibility. "The country wants consensus, if not co-existence," he said. 'It wants no other dialogue, based on real data, if not an agreement. However, we do not need it, he added, "After the negatives of science in pandemic and the negatives of logic in the economy." The Prime Minister is afraid of something. And he's right to be afraid of it. We'll see who that is. The following analysis has been made in a newspaper that supports you. "In spring Mr. Mitsotakis will perhaps like to open an election, but it is not certain that he can and why the simple analogue will make it difficult for him to recur." Listen. Kotakis, "EXTIA": "The difference is shrinking below the seven units and why the enhanced analog proposed to him by the Pascal Ministers gives him difficult self-reliance. 38% is required for the conquest of a hundred and fifty seats, as much as it took in 2019.’ Other government hymns in "KATHMERINA" find that the prediction that the 38% threshold set by the New Republic's self-reliance electoral law is no longer accessible is justified. Well, to come to the danger, and to what's hiding or cowardly-sucking, the government begins to show up. The Minister, in his note in the rapporteur's report, actually admits that there are uncertainties, great uncertainties. What does he actually say? Actually, it says the coronary is a sarcasm of development. But that is not what the government and you who support it should be more afraid of. Budget means, above all, you can predict what will happen next 12 months with some confidence. Your people, some people, in fact, who supported Mr Mitsotakis' candidacy for the Head of the New Democracy, say that the country - I am referring to Mr Kyrchos - is in a multidimensional crisis. We need policies with the least possible cost to human lives and economy. He adds: “I do not foresee a new memorandum. But there will be adaptation measures.’ Listen, look out. "Because, from the second half of 2022, economic policy will become more stringent in the euro area. We should now take these measures rather than wear us a foreign suit again."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Athanasios, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u128	I shall now conclude, Mr President, to say that we have strict austerity measures. What I have to say and which you should listen to is this. If your honest people get to the point of talking about adaptation measures and the risk of wearing us a foreign suit again, what can I add?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u130	My last sentence. A phrase, Mr President. Thirty seconds. I'm begging. This is where everyone's broken it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll shine, gentlemen. You'll shine. I see your psychological condition...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u131	Don't go underneath 'cause time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u132	Can I say a phrase? May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u133	A phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u134	Take a minute of my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Admiral,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u136	Don't talk like that. Time's running out. Mr. Athanasios, please hang up with a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u137	Yes, Mr. President. I don't want to burden their psychological condition. We've got two data. Firstly, the public debt is a great deal. Secondly, budgetary discipline will return. Community officials have already warned. If these two are added, which is almost prevalent, that the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank will be interrupted, then the torture begins. Then we go back to 2014. Then we fall back to the cliff. The fact that quantitative relaxation is likely to be interrupted and in Europe, today's news reveals...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u138	Don't open a new subject. It's ten minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u139	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u140	Stop, please. You're not helping. You're having a hard time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u141	Okay. I don't thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u142	Mr Bartzokas has the floor from New Democracy. And Mrs Adamopoulou follows from Mera25. Mr. Tarantilis has set an example that I see no one following.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is being drawn up in special circumstances. That's why I don't think anyone doubts. For two years the government has been called upon to handle multiple crises at all levels. We have, on the one hand, the health crisis, which, in addition to losses in human lives, has also had significant economic losses. We have the energy crisis, which despite its transgression creates a growing wave of precision, and recently our country experienced and experienced crises, both from factors related to the phenomenon and from threats related to the security of its borders and, by extension, to security throughout the country. These are the international and national contexts and are mostly negative. However, in this constantly changing field of challenges and changes our government's targeting remains itself and continues to serve our three key priorities, turning the negative figure into a positive impact for society. First of all, the reduction in taxation. We also see in the budget that we are debating today, in 2022, that no new tax is foreseen. Instead, we continue to implement our policy to reduce tax rates, reduce tax burden, alleviating the middle-class, the economically weaker and promoting entrepreneurship. And as long as the Qualified Opposition insists on playing the tape of destruction, our government continues to play the end titles in the tax espresso policy it has implemented and kneeled the citizens and the professionals. The second priority this year's budget refers to work and compared to our commitment to the creation of many good work. The aim is served primarily through investment, but also the overall institutional framework with which we have arranged to reverse the disinvestment climate and the padlocks that have brought SYRIZA's signature. Thus, in 2022, significant investment costs are forecast, both through the Public Investment Programme and the resources of the Recovery Fund, the new NRP and private leverage. The rise in investment is not just an estimate or a wish. In the mid-term, there has been an increase in investment, and this is reflected in the reduction of unemployment by three percentage points. We can therefore be realistic at the same time, but also optimistic, expecting that we continue to record high performance on investment, aiming at an even greater reduction in unemployment. Our third priority this year's budget is social care. And in this budget, by a liberal government, social expenditure is increased. These three priorities define our strategy and dictate our institutional actions for the Greek leap in the future, a leap for which Greece is ready and that is our mandate and responsibility towards the Greek people. I could here focus further on the figures and figures that testify to the budget development perspective, the transition to normality, but also the figures that disprove the obsolete account of counter-population, although our ministers and rapporteurs have mentioned them in detail. However, I choose to mention the necessary steps in which the government has to go, in order that our optimism for the future will gain attributes of even more optimistic reality. My remarks have Imathia and its citizens as a reference point and have been shaped by constant contact with them. So, starting with the strengthening of entrepreneurship, which is also the main axis of our political strategy, I would like to point out the always key issue of liquidity: the scope for intervention and political pressure on the banking sector must be exhausted in order to channel warm money from the banks to businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most affected, so they have a greater need. In the same light and in the context of energy accuracy, a significant relief for businesses, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not fall within the scope of energy growth support measures implemented by the Ministry of the Environment, would be their inclusion in a special grant programme. In this way we would achieve both relief from increased electricity tariffs and withholding prices of the products sold. In closing the part of the targeted interventions in the business sector and in particular in the light of our priorities for tax reductions, I raise the question of extending the reduction of the EMSDDA to legal persons. Given that the market takes time to heal its wounds from the pandemic and given that prudent financial management may leave the allowed space to reduce HPAI to professional property, I call on the political leadership to consider such an important tax breath seriously. I will conclude my proposals with the primary sector, focusing on two axes: firstly, the promotion of an exceptional grant to farmers to compensate for losses resulting from the launching of prices in feedingstuffs. Secondly, the further development of a fairer and more efficient fiscal framework for farmers and the primary sector, in general, so that it reaches as high as it deserves. With these considerations, I am voting for the budget of 2022 and bearing in mind that the budget text is not the collection and presentation of figures and figures, but the expression of our principles and values, with their supreme man and his well-being - which I believe this budget serves faithfully - I call upon all the forces to vote for it, as I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Bartzokas. Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 followed by Mr Vlachos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mrs and Mr Minister, the enclave that all governments have at a very high price in reality, and we are still paying for it, but it seems that the rulers are not taught and are not exemplified by this price and by all this calamity. Inside the government there are strong distortion forces, reproducing every three and a few different narratives and taking place at times so intense that, in fact, logic raises hands high in front of all this game and the courage of political impression. I say this because we hear from the official ministerial lips, from the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, that in relation to the wave of precision that has affected households and businesses, if we take away from all this energy cost, then there is no appreciation of products and no precision on the market. It says this when ELSTAT announces that inflation in Greece has reached 4.8% in November - a negative record of a decade of inflation for Greece - and of course we also have price increases in both fuel and heating oil and gas and maggot. However, we cannot overlook the appreciation of basic products and commodities and services. I'll speak with numbers, as the Minister speaks with numbers. Should we talk about revaluing 18.5% of olive oil? Approximately 17.5% of the rest of the edible oils? 12% on the potatoes? 4% on the bread, coffee, milk? In all products, then, we see an established price rally and with this found price rally, where we pay the most expensive tariffs in Europe, we hear from ministerial lips - and if possible - that there is no precision on the market and appreciations on the various products. And the main question is: Do they pay all these increases and the middle layers and the low and the rich? Do they absorb all these increases in social strata? The conclusion is that inflation literally boasts and the last euro in bank accounts is losing its value every day, while at the same time reducing the available incomes of our fellow citizens, we are the country in the worst position pan-Europeanly at low wages. In order not to speak of the culmination, of course, which is Mr Hatzidakis' unpaid bill, which, as we know very well, deregulationd labour relations, established the unpaid tenth and abolished collective bargaining. For inflation, in particular, it sounded not the bell but the risk bell, the Director of the Parliament's Budget Office, Mr Koutedakis, who said that it is very likely that the central banks would tighten up their monetary policy, and this will have catastrophic consequences, especially in countries with high public debt, such as Greece, because they will increase borrowing interest rates. He talked more generally about a very pleasant and encouraging picture and uncertainties in relation to the budget, and even emphasised the possible permanent losses already caused by the recession in the workforce and the strongest productive capital in our economy. And he said all this with evidence, because he wanted to show exactly what you have done with both unemployment and the available income of our fellow citizens. And because Mr Georgiadis talked about a fall in unemployment, about re-establishing a little reality and saying that the fall is in August and is not due to the opening of new jobs, but because some people who had been suspended have returned because of the restrictive measures. There was therefore a lifting of the restrictive measures and a return to employment. As is also due to the very good, upward trend in tourism, i.e. the seasonal workers, who once the tourist season expires, are returning to unemployment. That's the reality, so we don't talk about plastic numbers. You are making the 32.5 billion from the Recovery Fund, which, although at first glance, seem to be a historic opportunity, finally seems before the first disbursement that this money will not be absorbed by the small and medium-sized enterprises, but again by the large business groups, nor will any relevant policies of optimal, sustainable and fair development be envisaged in the Greek National Recovery Plan. More generally, you will once again strengthen the friendly business groups. With regard to the triumph - I would say - and the highly optimistic forecasts of the Minister of Finance about the effectiveness of the tax mechanism, to say that Greece is in second place in terms of the unrealistic amounts from VAT. One euro at over four euros remains unresolved from VAT. We have proposed that you reduce the maximum tax rates from 24% to 15% and reduce or abolish the robbery tax. We are making concrete proposals to you and while you are questioning us that we are oppositioning slogans when we make proposals, you are simply whistling indifferently. With regard to the multitude of health, which you have taken care to decommission completely, however, it has proved to be a lad who has unleashed you as far as possible, of course, your endless amateurisms, but also the unreasonable statement by the Prime Minister that we have no evidence that off-site mortality is greater than in-site mortality. And the Chiodra - Lytra study is coming to disprove you and say that 87% of the deaths took place outside the ICU and that about 38.4% of the deaths would have been avoided,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u146	That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u147	...if the National Health System were to function properly, and if patients had been introduced into ICU. Nevertheless, you have taken care of this National Health System and with the budget, not just decommission it, but weaken it even further, reducing expenditure by EUR 820 million. You have reduced the recruitments compared to last year, where we have less than two and a half thousand sanitary aids, and we have all seven thousand gaps from contract suspensions, while smuggling the sanitary with various balls, election crustaceans and bonuses, instead of reintroducing the wages to levels before 2012, as also provided for in the S.H.E.'s decision, instead of reintroducing the presents, and of course instead of bringing back the third and fourteenth wages. I conclude by saying that there is no provision for primary health care. We are fed up with the subcommittees and the Equality Committee to talk about vulnerable and vulnerable groups, one of which is the victims of domestic violence, for which nothing is foreseen in terms of social services of care, support and assistance. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I conclude, therefore, by saying that your budget is unfair, is classic, is inequality and is even more escalating the war you have waged against the low and middle social strata and the looting you want to bring to public health, public education and, more generally, public goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u148	The next speaker is Mr George Vlachos from the New Democracy. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget debate is perhaps Parliament's top process, not only because we are discussing and deciding on the financial figures next year, but because we are given the opportunity to have a debate on all the matter of the country's situation and perspective. But to have safe conclusions, one should stand exclusively - I would say - in the great picture and the elements that identify it and which send out the message for the future. I therefore believe that the growth rate, as well as the state's income, is a hopeful signal. It is thus foreseen that 2022 will acquire part of the lost income, mainly because of the pandemic, since it has had to be supported by households and businesses with measures of up to EUR 40 billion for the period 2020 to 2022 and is the third support package for the economy as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone. These interventions concerned most of the society without doubt, especially those who needed to cope with the difficulties created by the pandemic. It is worth recalling the extension of the exemption from the special levy, the reduction of the insurance contributions in the private sector, the reduction of the refund rate for all advance refunds, the extension of the reduced rates to products and activities, the extension of the GEOGRAPHY and the 'ACT-WORK' programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years, we have been living the nightmare of pandemic - for the consequences of our lives I will speak a little later - with serious repercussions on the economy of households and businesses and on the economy as a whole. It is the main cause of an increase in expenditure, but we must admit that it has always been under control. That is why a good reason is worthy of Christos Stakouras as head of the financial staff, because he has been able under difficult economic conditions to support the daily lives of the citizens, but also to shield the prospects of the Greek economy. With this large picture, I obviously give a positive vote to the budget. We do not stand in individual disagreements and things that at the end of the year may change. Let me turn to the current reality a little. It's really delightful to talk about economy, about sizes, about numbers, when a hundred of our fellow men are lost every day. I thought and believe, ladies and gentlemen, that until the end of the pandemic there will be no winners. There should be consultation of the political and social forces of the place to deal with it. They've left life, about twenty thousand people. Hundreds of people are hospitalized, thousands are at risk, and we are playing - if you will, let me say - the courgette with how many ICUs we will have and why not so many more. The worst part is that most people who speak publicly do not know the daily life of hospitals. They speculate, improvise about what they think is pleasurable and forget that pandemic is about us all. It sounds persistent, for example, that the health system is being pressed. Obviously. There is no need for special knowledge to understand, seeing the numbers of those who are hospitalized. However, everyone who serves the ESS is exaggerating themselves, so that no one can deny anything. They treat everyone without exceptions. Those who have been in a way with alpha or beta lately in hospitals - months, I mean - can have a clear picture of how they function and how patients are treated, and then I think with more respect we will talk about these people. It is also heard that COVID patients are given priority over other diseases. The executives of each hospital obviously know and try to deal with all the incidents. Therefore, in my opinion, the reduction of even up to 80% - and not 80%, as some want to say - of non-COVID diseases could be left to the full responsibility of the staff of each hospital, also giving them help, with the possibility of working with private hospital surgeons, so that there is a quicker and more direct handling. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have all recently become experts and while we are easily rejecting as foolish anyone who claims to plant his antichrist and create DNA, we serious people are supposed to fight every day for the invasions, for the monoclonals, for the treatment and so on. We forget that the largest number of patients in need of intubation are invasive. So they themselves decided, in their own way and for their own reasons, to play the krone-writing, and that cannot be, in any case, the subject of political debate. Why not take a step back, send all of us the message: 'Nobody in the invasion, but everyone vaccinated!'? And if anyone, although vaccinated, finds himself in this difficult situation, then we really want to wish him and support him and say that it was a misfortune, but that is not possible from a choice and above all, do not do so in the context of the party conflict! So what I just said is of great importance, considering that we could have more IDs. I hear they're saying they're gonna be IDs, they're good, they've been found, a donor has been found, and they've given up, and they're being IDs, and then how are they going to be staffed? Even if we had the money to hire doctors, do you know that there are doctors with the specific skills in the labour market? There aren't any! So that means - and that is what we need to keep - that we will fight the pandemic with the weapons we have, first of all with the vaccine, and if we get the drugs we have today - and I wish tomorrow were more and more effective - with the public health units that we have and the utilization of private and above all, the medical, nursing and general staff, who have been giving the best of his life to fight the front line for two years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why I have spoken about the provision of supplementary staff - I conclude, Mr President - and I repeat it today from the Step of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, if we turn the time back, we will obviously find mistakes and omissions, we will find words that should not have been said. But the pandemic continues and we have to look forward, protecting ourselves and those we love, that is, the whole world. I wish moments would come that will allow us the luxury of the micro-party conflict. That is why we have to agree, by closing down that the study that saw the light of publicity has recently been done to make the ERC better, by identifying weaknesses and not by charging responsibilities, at least at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The next speaker is Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis from the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Highlands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that colleagues mainly from SYRIZA and Mera25 forget their own life and come here giving lessons, while they were failed teachers themselves. And of course, all Greece remembers Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis in 2015, when he brought the country far behind and when the economy got involved in the third memorandum and in a mortgage on our national property for ninety years. And one more thing: There's also a false tragedy in this Chamber. The Tsiodra - Lytra report generally examines the pressure of the health system within the ICUs and hospitals when there are epidemics and pandemics. In beds, therefore, ICMs also refer to the increased mortality, which is affected by multiple factors, risks and continues to increase and concerns the majority of non-invasive citizens. These are what our scientists say, and here they are unawares of overthrowing and presenting a scientific opinion quite differently and politically, when we are discussing the 2022 budget and while our country has recorded an admirable, rapid economic recovery in the difficult months ahead. It is a budget, which seems in its structure to have the gradual abandonment of the needs created by the pandemic in previous years and of all those measures pursued during the previous year, the forecasts for last year, with the transition to a high and sustainable development of 2022 through a productive model, which is distinguished by extroversion, competitiveness, justice, innovation, but also by ecological sensitivity, what peoples, states and those who are gradually thinking. So, despite the uncertainty that the diverse and threateningly changing pandemic actually creates, as well as the explosive price rise due to the energy crisis, our economy bears characteristics that show it enters a period of dynamic growth. This optimism also reinforces EUROSTAT's elements, according to which, with regard to performance in Europe at quarterly GDP, Greece has a growth rate of 13.4% and presents the best performance in Europe and the second, at monthly level, at a growth rate of 9.3%, which is why the new German Minister for Finance, Christian Lindner, mentioned, speaking of the spectacular and successful policy of the Greek Government and saying that in recent years, very impressive reform measures have been achieved to bring the Greek economy to a new path of success. They are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, which supported the country's productive fabric with extensive support measures amounting to EUR 43.3 billion for the period 2020 to 2022, which is prevalent, cowardly and recognised by entrepreneurs and workers throughout the country. The material losses of last year have been covered, for example, by the very good export performance of services, the increase in private consumption, as well as the increase in saving and improving employment, and the increase in investment. 2022 is expected to be the year of the recovery of the Greek economy under normal conditions. The new budget does not only include new taxes, but also provides for additional tax reductions and, of course, provides for a growth of 4%, above 2019 GDP by 1.7%. It includes new innovative interventions to boost employment and the new generation. The aim is to further reduce the tax burden on households and businesses, while also boosting investment and exports, with a view to the necessary transformation of the country's production model and achieving high growth rates in the years to come. The country's economic growth is basically expected to rely on investment expenditure. A decisive role in increasing investment will be played by the progress of our wealthy economy, the influx of resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund and the adoption of structural reforms, which will create a favourable environment for entrepreneurship and the attraction of funds from abroad. Accelerating growth against this 2021 with a gradual return to normality and the prospect of complete normalisation of the market will certainly be progress on vaccinations. On this basis, there is a further recovery in the tourism sector, with foreign receipts increasing compared with 2021 by 60%, while supporting the normalisation of budgetary levels. And here I support and say that tourism is a key source - and, if you like, the Dodecanese stands - but at the same time, it requires strengthening its competitiveness, continuing to create infrastructure, strengthening investment and, of course, reducing VAT indirect taxation on the islands, which this government has won, also at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, the conditions are now being created for our compatriots to return to our country, especially in the years of the crisis. There are opportunities for professional rehabilitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Foreign companies invest in Greece and look for executives with the features of our compatriots who left the country and make up what we call the "new dispersion", the "brain drain". They return to the country, not only because new professional opportunities arise here, but because they show confidence in the country's long-term potential for progress and prosperity. In issues relating to our international relations and our Armed Forces, the country promotes a grid of alliances that exploits its position in the European Union and NATO, strengthening its deterrent capacity, with supplies necessary - after a decade of underinvestment - to the Armed Forces. With the budget being voted on, the country enters a solid development orbit, quickly recovers the economic losses and tackles its chronic structural diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the budget is always a top debate that is taking place in Parliament and, of course, through this top debate, the top policy and strategy that the government has. So I will say that this budget also clearly reflects the philosophy, politics and logic of the New Democracy, which is a purely neoliberal, right-wing policy, which broadens inequalities, shrinks the social state and devours the world of work. At the same time, this budget is based on what the Parliamentary Budget Office has said and on two major uncertainties. They're making him over-optimistic. The first uncertainty is that he thinks - through his wordings - that pandemic ends on 31-12-2021, while we are at the top of the fourth wave of pandemic and, unfortunately - and it is not populism, it is a reality - of deaths and cases and ducts and all the surrounding atmosphere around the mutations, etc. They show that the pandemic, unfortunately, for the whole planet and for the country, is ahead of us. And within this context, the revealing study of Mr. Tsiodra and Mr. Lytra comes, which makes the Prime Minister false. On 1 December the Prime Minister said to us: "You must say clearly, from this Stepma, if you have signs that people died out of my mind and what is the risk or not." And not just that. You manage the pandemic with reduced health costs: 800 million state aid and 280 million more for hospitals and primary health care minus, whatever asterisks you put to the 600 million supposedly available if things don't work out well. And a second element for your over-estimation is inflation and accuracy. The accuracy of the energy crisis, as they say in the domestic and international press, is also being overshadowed - has not come to leave quickly, unfortunately. The figures from both France and Germany show us that the energy crisis and the increase in electricity prices will continue. On this basis, therefore, you have not taken any action within the budget of 2022. Nevertheless, Mr Stavrou told us to the committees that in the end you do not tell us how they are being captured and what they are looking for. And we repeat this to you today that our proposals are very specific, very costly and reach a height of 4.8 billion. Our proposals are very specific. I'll tell them in outlines, because time is relentless: Increase the minimum wage to EUR 800. All eurozone countries have moved into pandemic in minimum wage increases. I'll give you a little comparison. Your Government 2%, 13 euros per month, in Spain from 660 to 705 euros, with another government, of course. Reduction of excise duty on fuels at the European Union's lowest levels. Second proposal, testing the cartel in energy that forms the wholesale price. Third sentence, deletion of the pandemic debt. Fourth proposal, abolishing a solidarity levy of up to EUR 40,000. Fifth proposal, abolishing the trade fee. Sixth proposal, you are talking about GDP which is increasing to 6.9% in 2021 and 4.5% in 2022. This is, of course, a recovery and if we include 2022 for 'anaemic growth', to use a term of your own when you were opposition and were talking about our own growth rate. I say 'welcome growth'. But the problem and the crucial question is: To what development model, to a more productive model, does this development involve? Your policy to date in all the legislation - whether it relates to strategic studies or to spatial planning, whether it relates to industrial relations or to development law - is a policy that supports domestic and foreign economic interests and multinational groups and that is where you base the whole development, at the expense of many and in favour of the few. I say - and I conclude - that against this model defined by strong business groups, domestic and foreign, we are confronting the model of socially just and sustainable development, with emphasis on primary and sustainable tourism, with emphasis on specific sectors of industry, newly-born businesses, with a balanced regional development and decentralisation plan. Also, one element of over-estimation that you have recorded in the budget is this: you say that we will have increased revenue from taxes of 3,5 billion and you say that will result from growth. Of course, a part will arise from the growth rate, but you are forgetting that the two-year account has now to be paid, which deferred the obligations of small businesses, employees and all other sections. Will these layers be able to pay? Will this money be collected when we see that private debt is growing? Only the last nine months were raised by 4.5 billion. Since time is running out, I do not want to talk about the Recovery Fund, which will share with the criteria I have said, in favour of strong business groups, nor about the Stability Pact, which we do not know what your policy is. At the moment in Europe there is a very long and critical debate. What do you stand against these issues? Are you in favour of a development and social cohesion pact or are you in favour of a pact guaranteeing austerity towards all the peoples, with key victims of the countries of the South? In closing, the 2022 budget intensifies social inequalities, reproduces a productive model, which led us in 2010 to bankruptcy, shapes a growth that is cut and sewn into the measures of strong business groups, revives the client state of opacity and crumbles the social state. That is why there is an urgent need for a political change, a new progressive, democratic government, which will undertake to bring the country up for the benefit of the great majority of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u154	The next speaker is Mrs Iatridis Chabika from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the government with consistency, commitment, plan and vision is firmly next to the Greek society, next to the Greeks, next to the Greeks. Methodically, step by step proceeds to permanent tax relief, income support, strengthening entrepreneurship, protecting islands. All this, having to deal with the important economic and social consequences of the pandemic. And yet, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has kept the Greek society and economy standing, at the same time that it has to deal with a wave of energy accuracy, another exogenous factor, which once again makes it difficult for this government, our Government. However, we have shown that the Government and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group are here for the difficult task of giving solutions, so that we can move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the opposition parties behave and argue as if there is no pandemic. They act as if the economies of all countries do not face important issues and challenges. I would remind you here that the SYRIZA Government has worked in an international environment which is clearly more favourable and with no special variation, but it has finally remembered to honour its promises towards the end of its term of office, in a hopeless attempt to forge once again the Greek people' s vote. However, 2015 is not 2019 and now 2019 is not 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens recognise the efforts made and, above all, understand the particular circumstances that we all face together. The only ones who do not understand it are the colleagues of the Officerate. I shall also briefly refer to some of the critical speeches, which show the consistency and continuity of our policy. These are the extension by the end of 2022 of the exemption from the special solidarity levy, the reduction of three units of insurance contributions to the private sector, the reduction of all repayable advances, the extension of the reduced VAT rates to transport, coffee and alcoholic beverages, to cinemas, theatrical performances, concerts and tour packages by June 2022, the reduction of the VAT rate to gymnasiums and dance schools from 24% to 13%, the extension of the GEOFY programme to grant household loans, the extension of the 'CONTURAL' programme, the strengthening of the initial programme for 100 000 jobs with an additional fifty thousand new jobs. All this, without once again in recent years imposing new taxes, without austerity measures. Furthermore, the New Democracy Government is increasing expenditure in critical areas. For health expenditure has been rising steadily since 2019, so that from EUR 4 billion, we can go to EUR 5.3 billion for 2022. Along with the costs of other health ministries, expenditure in 2022 will amount to EUR 11.7 billion. But for health, SYRIZA is plundering. He does the same thing he did for the economy and the memoranda in 2015, before it became government. He was caught by a study, distorting both the study and the words of the Prime Minister. However, you have received the answer today from the Deputy Minister of Health, Ms. Gaga, who, apart from a good scientist, is also a doctor on the front line. He clearly told you what is going on in ICUs and in ICUs with specific examples not only from Greece, but also from Europe. He clearly told you how it was with the ITHs on SYRIZA and how it is now, on our own service. We doubled the MDGs and strengthened them with the necessary staff. On the same subject, you have just received a statement from Professor Tsiodras. So stop hiding everything that doesn't suit you and finally change your account. Do not take advantage of the pandemic for micro-party benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech with two points. One is the exacerbation of racial violence. The Government directly demonstrates its readiness, with an overall increase in the budget for the gender equality sector of about 14 million, to support working mothers, to prevent and to tackle violence against women and to integrate gender into all sectoral policies. I shall conclude my speech with a reference to our islands as a Dodecanese Member. I wish wholeheartedly to welcome the success of the Ministry of Finance, which has seriously and crediblely managed to guarantee the European Union the right of our country to have reduced VAT rates on our islands on a permanent basis. It is proof that the government has given priority to our islands and islands, which is evidenced by the strengthening of the coastlines and the ferry lines with multi-annual contracts and a sum exceeding EUR 300 million, the construction and repair of the port infrastructure of the islands, the investments of the green transition to Astypalea and Halki, the financing of important infrastructures, as has recently been done for Rhodes, Leipzig, Tilos, Symi, Nisyros, Patmos and Kastelorizo. Of course, there are other infrastructures on the other islands of the Dodecanese. With the budget of 2022 Greece is looking forward, the islands are looking ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, in a difficult climate, amid pandemic and crisis in energy, the government with its policies has managed to support society and the economy as a whole and effectively. So we have gained faith in ourselves, to walk on a path with growth and better life for all and all. That is why I unreservedly support the 2022 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Iatridis. Here comes Mrs. Kefalidou Charula from the Change Movement. After Mrs. Kefalidou it will be Mr. Stoltides, Mr. Psakakis, and then Mr. Petsas, Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget, a government that has recognised its clear orientation of creating a national environment of stability, fiscal order and modernisation of the state and its services, proposes the convergence of budgetary levels in the surpluses that will be required from 2023 onwards, where the country returns to the restrictions of the Stability Pact. To do this, however, you are moving towards a great leap of logic, leaving the corresponding gap. You are presenting 2022 as a year of return to normality. And you do this with a great deal of arbitraryness, without being backed up by reality. The government's positive outlook for next year is absolutely hypothetical. Two major threats to the economy, the energy and health crisis, which bear inflationary pressures that are becoming increasingly suffocating and budgetary margins that are constantly narrow, are heavy on their shadows. Despite the fact that the government's timetable for tax reliefs and benefits is currently being carried out, these threatening fronts of the economy do not leave anyone unattractive. I don't even imagine the government itself. Besides, SYRIZA's governance experience leaves no one the right to believe in deceitful ones. Consequently, the exceptional support measures for vulnerable households and businesses, even those which you announced yesterday to raise the minimum wage in 2022, come with a delay and are well-functioning, but neither data nor data are considered to be reassured. The 2022 budget, although at first reading positive, finds uncertainties and questions which are not answered, because the risks are present, although the government does not see them. And I ask you: How much is the state's response to the budget for dealing with the new data put forward by the pandemic? You know very well that the number of casualties in human lives have now ceased to scare the government - I fear the state - because we are doing well! We have a hundred and thirty dead every day. Did we get used to these trillions every day? The smiles of satisfaction on the performance of the government, but also on the television signals of optimism with an EHS that is struggling to keep up, with non-MED young people who are losing their lives from the inability to respond in time to the hospitals in the region, are ultimately nothing but government mistributiveism. Can the Tsiodra-Lytra study, with the most critical point being that 87% of non-ATI tubed is doomed and that this should be extended to the regional hospitals and that no initiatives, emergency measures have been taken, that this climate of reassuring and returning to normality is present? Do you realize that you are not reading the points of the times correctly? Can I remind you what you were doing in schools, primary school, secondary school, and HR? It is a pretext that no one and we do not want to see schools closed. You already know that many experts suggest it, especially in America after the dramatic events we have with the Delta mutation in conjunction with the 'Omicon'. Since when, remember, we're asking for a reduction in the number of students in school classes? And there is a monotonous argument on the part of the Ministry of Education that says that this cannot be done, there is no room for actors. Let me tell you that two years now you should have thought of some alternative and not even at present there are funds for more recruitment. What did we suggest monotonously? Take advantage of tele-education. Explore it in relation to and in combination with living teaching. Don't you hear us, not even the experts? Mr. Sariyannis comes out yesterday, and what does he say? Urgently hybrid operation, teleworking and teleworking. That will be necessary evil in Genarris. Why? Because if "Omicron" prevails, we have to go back automatically within one day into a hybrid model, we have to go to teletransmission, because the elevation of Omicon cases - mostly as far as the children are concerned - will be very difficult to keep our schools open, because there is overtransmission, children operate as dormant horses. So what's the only defensive weapon in this new variant? We should be able to keep our schools open, but with the restrictions that we say, by teleworking, by teleworking and by living. In 'Omicon', they say that there is no question of more ITH. We need to apply ways of reducing overtransmission. Greece has an ageing population. We must not forget that. And what we say about primary and secondary is also true of GNIs. And here's what the ministry said a few days ago. He received a ministerial order saying: "Exclusively by living the lessons at the IEOs." Now, not to talk to you about self-interest and all these details, which go for a walk in front of a general outcry as to how we operate. I'll tell you a few words about the budget. Once again, it is illustrated how frustrated vocational training is. It takes only 100 million, at the same time as primary and secondary school is around 4 billion and HEIs at 1 billion. This chaos, therefore, is an indication of the importance that the Ministry of Education and the Government attaches to vocational education, which became its reforming flag and the alternative that gives young people as a counterweight to the horizontal reduction in admissions. Listen. We do not question the government's efforts to do what it can. We question, however, that there are things he can do and does not do. And that's a very big deal. We propose a timely extension of the mandatoryity of vaccination, mobilisation and inclusion of society actors in the vaccination campaign, measures to decongest public transport, use and expansion of teleworking, mobilisation of the church, reduction of the number of pupils in the classes by exploiting teleworking, access by small and medium-sized enterprises to banking, vigilance of the Energy Regulatory Authority in the planning of measures. And of course I want to tell you that no one anymore is unconscious by the citizens. Everyone judges and they know. And to say one last word, the 2022 budget looks like a hasty housewive waiting for visits. It hides in the closets clipping everything that is abundant, pushes under the carpet and sofas the mess, and when the bell rings once the frame of smile - of success - and, shaking the foliage of no matter how much it opens, any stuffed wardrobes and unleashed the laundry and silvers and brooms and pheasants, it is ready to face any evil, no matter what it is and embarrasss. But that, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, is something that has now been understood to the Greek people. And as much as we know that the opposition as a whole is traditionally voting against the annual budget, I would like to tell you that we are not all the same. Compensation and extremist populism have representatives in Parliament, no more need for them. It is enough for Mr Polakis' party who dreams of the abolition of independent authorities and their political control. We, as PASOK, seek to offer our public speech proposals that will improve citizens' lives, take the place forward. However, this budget has a poor base and it has an unnecessarily inexplicable optimism, which concerns some, a few of them. We need optimism. And so is the aware that things may not go as we would like. There, therefore, the state must do its job properly and provide insurance for the protection of society and especially the vulnerable. So your budget does not do that and it can prove disastrous, canceling a more than ten-year-old national effort to stand on its feet, leaving the country with victims and therefore suffering. That is the main reason why we cannot vote for this budget. We cannot overlook his weaknesses, and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u158	Mr Leonidas Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. You don't give up all of you, New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement and the rest of you, and you're not, of course, going to do so, from the sad task you've been trying to save an old age for a long time and every day more rotten socio-economic system, the capitalist, the last exploitation, thankfully, for the people. While he no longer has anything to offer people, while he has no other way to feed, survive, reproduce than to suck more and more of the wealth produced in increasingly fewer pockets, you are trying to give him life. With manipulations, fragrances of growth do everything you can to raise dust, not see that the workers and the populace are now the only way to live even a white day is to end it with him. And you do it consciously, not by weakness. You are consciously misleading the world. Thirty years ago, since the 1990s - which you temporarily saved from your nightmare the socialist world that kept the people uprooted and led them to conquerion - there has been no budget either in economic crisis or in development either by increasing either by reducing GDP by a memorandum or by either a left-wing or right-wing, which says the reason why our people should not lose in wages, pensions, health, education, as a whole. This is what you all hide, that this system needs all of this as fuel to turn it into profit. Either way, he's gonna do that, he's got no other way. You need to do all of these laws, to do how you regenerate - good time - to present them as a one-way street, to kick for sharing in the "fashioned" by showing differences in caging management. So all these years, one another, cut off, you reached pensions at 470 euros for 27% and 570 euros for 38% of pensioners. Cut-rooted labour rights, abolished collective labour contracts, Sunday holidays, eight o'clock, with the Hatzidakis abortion, you reached the wage for 30% of the workers at 345 euros, i.e. below the poverty line, while the average wage was demolished to 785 euros. In turn, you have given the parasites the opportunity to employ a worker instead of two or three, with working time and teleworking for the whole 24 hours, leaving hundreds of thousands of unemployed. Now you are cutting them off, with a salary of ten times the scientist, the researcher, who is launching technology, automation, twenty-fold the worker, who is launching labour productivity at mining, shipyards, construction, industry. Instead of doing this for everyone with fewer working hours and products and services that can make life a pleasure today, you legislate that all this be done poorly, villas and vaults for a handful of large-scale business groups that offer nothing to produce. People are dying massively, and you're reducing money to health. You take advantage of the fact that they have grown old since the abandonment of all infrastructures, buildings, roads and they can't withstand either two Ritchter or a watermelon and you share tens of billions - which you have only collected from the biopoplastics - on the 'coops' of energy to save us from climate change, robbing us with the cost of energy most of our people's income. You invite the domestic and land of the "brows" to come and invest. You promise them money with the people's money. Promise borrowers and savages, almost zero taxes and insurance contributions. Promise them you'll give them the payroll of the young. You promise them workers in modern industries with no rights. You promise them only profits and you take your money all day for the two-three-four multinational sizes, digital "fascist" that came because they found a way out of profit. In other words, imagine what the rest of the "brows" want to convince them to come. Finally, stop doing what you are fighting for the type of development, because the trade unions of all of you - of the New Democracy, who are bringing jobs with good wages, of PASOK, which you are bringing something new, and of SYRIZA, who are burning for the minimum, is enough for the economy to withstand it - together, all last week in secret, you signed the 50-year collective labour agreement for the most profitable telecommunications group in Greece, the OTE Group, which guaranteed financing and huge profitability for the next few years, and despite the fact that workers throughout Greece rejected it by collective decisions, thus opening up the path of wage squeeze to the lowest, either trade-union or neo-democratic. The workers are, of course, organizing at this time when we are talking about cancelling this signature and those who signed it. In the "Cavalas Petrela" you have essentially financed, with EUR 100 million, the dismissal of all employees with built-up collective rights to get new rights free. These are only the examples of the last week, but apparently you are not going to leave a work place with a wage above the minimum. Slowly all of you conclude together an anti-legislative mesh, a monstrous feather, which has no longer left a drop of time impenetrable for a worker throughout his life. Since he's born, and if he's got a clean meal to get out his rotten education, he's gonna have to pay more than he's going to get on his work course, as a student-investigator to look for some technician with a payroll so that he can suck his knowledge, but also as an employee. Of course I am not even talking about some self-employed people and those who are paid the minimum because they live in a nightmare, but even those who are with a thousand euros and a salary that will grow old only by working and weighing every month whether to pay PPC and the gas or whether to pay to eat and when they get to the pension they are ashamed to be their children and grandchildren. Question: That's what you call life? That is what the majority of our people live in. Do you think this life will force the Syrian auras and the neo-democratic methods of repression to tolerate scientists, researchers, technicians, workers, workers? You continue to serve the sad duty, the rotten duty to present it as a one - way street and as progress. So one-way is to become the "EFOD" and "COSCO" workstations everywhere, in all branches, pandemics and will be done. So your laws, as the struggles in these workers' premises have shown, will have no power, no value. The steering wheel of developments will be taken by the workers, the wealth producing workers, and so they will be able to see more clearly that they can keep the wheel of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. Mr Anastasios Publicakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured to convey to you the blessing, wishes and greetings of Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Markottos Mr. I was a priest who I visited a moment ago and even after my own initiative. Now on the subject. The budget for the financial year 2022 is being drawn up under the uncertainty regime caused by the global health and also by the current pan-European energy crisis. Nevertheless, it is realistic and hopeful, it creates a sense of optimism for the prospects of our economy, it moves to the main axes and priorities of the economic policy of the current government, celebrating the unpleasant predictions of Officerial Response to reduce development and additional tax measures, an opposition which does not actually participate in the national effort to tackle pandemic and even exercises scientific analyses on the part of the so-called scientific analyses, but essentially psychological operations at the expense of the Greek citizens, who are trying to manage the social and economic costs with Olympic resistance, with coolness and with great anxiety. It is dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, that the infrastructure and structures of the top hospital provision of the ESS should be called into question. However, spectacular tax and insurance reductions give an answer to all. They reflect a country of extrovert and pro-investment, which gives tax and economic incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises. After all, the budget is socially just, as it includes policies involving the element of social justice, with the support of employment and the available income of citizens. Specifically, the cost of Social Security Institutions is increased and housing benefits is extended to students in general, including important action programmes and actions, supporting the institution of the family, by guaranteeing financial support to foster parents as well as income support for families living in mountain and disadvantaged areas. At the same time, the national health system, which has been at the forefront for two years now, is being upgraded and shielded by increasing public spending and the utilization of available European tools, with the recovery fund headed by the spear. The Armed Forces and Security Body are the stable, unarmed guard of the country, as was demonstrated last March in the Nealgian region of Evros. The Government strengthens the country's defence capacity, as the planned appropriations for the regular budget of the Ministry of National Defence for 2022 are increased compared to the estimates of 2021 and this is mainly due to the implementation of new armaments programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, Evros is moving into an energy, transport, transport and defence bay, apart from being a cave and a mother of the primary sector. The presence of the transatlantic ally at the port of Alexandroupolis, which moves to a new Souda, confirms the strategic nature it acquires in the wider area of geostrategic and geopolitical chess board. The government demonstrates its commitment to the development perspective of Thrace and Evros, with the re-establishment of the Intergroup for Development in Thrace. It is the practical, useful, tool of policies which will be discussed in plenary session of the Greek Parliament in the near future. I would like to thank the government very much, but also two ministers, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, for their genuine and effective interest in resolving procedural issues, which I have raised concerning the netting of the 12% wage costs due with the debts of the beneficiary enterprises in the public sector, as the solution to the issue - which is necessary - tax and insurance information to enterprises, which are awaiting the clearing of the debts that the previous government has written down. The current government respects its commitments to professionals and restores the relationship of confidence between the state and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, Evros can strengthen state revenues if measures are taken to support, exploit and multi-level his armour. Our geographical position implies a wealth of unexploited potential. The upgrading and modernisation of all entry and exit points at the land borders in Evros, in our prefecture, and the proper functioning of them, could be the head of the spear of the Greek state. Minister, the entry-out point of Gardens is, as far as infrastructure and services are concerned, defamation for the Greek state The shortcomings and long-term waiting are evacuating traffic on other routes, as I have pointed out, inextricably and over time, through parliamentary control. We're losing customers, Minister, we're losing customers! And it is a pity for God, and we should all raise the problem of operation, but at the same time also of development and improvement of infrastructure. Mr Secretary, yesterday we had the pleasure of informing us, at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Islands and Mountains, of the ECOFIN decision, of the possibility for our country to introduce a reduction in VAT on the Aegean islands. I would like to remind you that, in the context of the discussion and vote of the Ministry of Development bill of 24 July, an amendment of the Ministry of Migration was included, which provided for a 30% reduction in VAT rates on the five painful islands of the north-east Aegean Sea and the south-eastern Aegean, namely Mytilini, Chios, Samos, Kos and Lero, on the basis of which, of course, the operation in these regions of services of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum was carried out, is a difficult tool to manage which the government has given us. Under this favorable arrangement, Samothraki was excluded, although in our regional section, the Falk Reception and Identification Centre, the Asylum Service in Alexandroupolis, the Border Guard Departments throughout the prefecture, a business centre in Nea Pyssa and organized bookings of the PRKA in Folkion, New Orestia. As I pointed out yesterday emphatically at the meeting of the subcommittee, the stricken triangle of the seventeen villages is an over-border region which is shrinking and erasing, in the near future! We all realise what this can mean for national security. Therefore, the Triangle and Samothraki should be given a special tax treatment immediately, because the minimum purchasing power of the inhabitants, unfortunately, is being exported to the neighbouring countries and should not be delayed. Ladies and gentlemen, with this general position, I am voting in favour of the budget for 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u162	Mr Zachariadis Konstantinos has the floor now, from SYRIZA. And then, as we said, the Deputy Minister of the Interior will speak. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, Mr. Chiorda and Mr. Lytra's investigation was published, and he told us, he documented things that we were all thinking about. First, the mortality in intensive care units increases, not only when the system reaches its limits, but well before the four hundred tubed. From there on, we seem to have a serious problem, that is, the system cannot withstand the pressure. Secondly, the scientific report says the chances of death increase as long as patients are removed from the centre. Mortality was 35% greater in Thessaloniki than in Athens and 40% greater in regional hospitals. Greater in rural areas than in urban areas. The distribution of human and material resources is unfair. Thirdly, those who are evacuated outside the ICM are at a much greater risk, 87% greater risk. That makes sense and self-evident, doesn't need much thought, to understand it. We understood all those who have common sense, regardless of parties, in addition to being here, by Mr Petsa, the Deputy Minister, who on 25-9-2020, when they were the Prime Minister's lips, told REAL FM: "If we had heard SYRIZA, we would have thrown tens of millions." On 25-9-2020, Mr. Pecha.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u164	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u165	Please! Don't interrupt. Please, Mr. Pecha. Afterwards your speech. You'll be able to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u166	That's Mr. Pecha's statement. And because this is last year, we have this year's.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u167	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u168	Should I be nervous? The holidays are stressful. Anyone who doesn't get nervous, keeps notes and answers. Next you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u169	What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Pecha, you'll talk later. Please, Mr. Pecha!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u171	We've been through this seven times!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u172	The Prime Minister! Greek Prime Minister, on December 1, 2021, now, ten days ago, said: "We have no proof that mortality is greater for intubated outside the ICM." This is the Step! Isn't the Prime Minister talking to scientists? Doesn't he read, Mr. Besiropoulos, the studies they send him? From May 5th, he had it in his drawer. His associates, post-mortem employees, three thousand post-mortems, don't they let him know? Does the Prime Minister of Greece not speak with other prime ministers? You, Mr. Mitsotakis, rule with the biggest make news! But there's something else the study says. Not what happened, but it says what has to be done. It describes, through tragic findings, the new ESS, with support to human resources, with support for infrastructure and technology, by reducing centre-periphery inequalities, because the country needs vision. Because the country needs vision, the country needs a plan, the country needs a social state, the country needs a welfare state, the country needs primary health care, the country needs public health policies, a strong public health system. Who will do these, ladies and gentlemen, and the Change Movement? Can Mr. Mitsotakis do it? Can New Democracy do it? Can the right one do it? Do you believe them? Do you understand them? Because the Right in Greece only understands party administrations in hospitals. Mr. Vorides told us: “Who should we put? Let's get the strangers on the line?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u173	You didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no. We made committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u175	Please! Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u176	The Right, New Democracy only perceives privatisations of health services and direct awards to the public. Instead of giving money to ITH and doctors, we gave money to a closed site, we gave money to a site without workers. All this can do, all this has to do and it will make all this a progressive government with the body of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, with a strong mandate from the people, with a great victory in the next election. Mrs. Gaga spoke earlier. He didn't say a single word about the Chiodra - Lytra study. I'm up against it. But she said about the one-thematic ESS, Ms. Gaga, who is a scientist on a major route, that it is not a single thematical ESS. I'm sorry, what country do you live in? You're talking to doctors? You're talking to the citizens? You're talking to the C.E.D.? Of course, for a long time the ESS has been unique. Of course, we have a dramatic suffering for the patient. Do you read a newspaper every day? Do you read "NAYTTERRIC"? Do you read "FINANCIAL OPERATIONS"? Of course we have dramatic delays in non-COVID disease. Shall we go to the economy now, Mr. Besyropoulou? I see a little restless. Tell me, have you been to a supermarket? Do you know how much a litre of milk a loaf of bread does?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u177	How much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u178	Have you seen PPC's account?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u179	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u180	It's 1,10 and it did 0,90.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u181	When did he do 0.90?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u182	Two months ago, it's 1.10.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u183	Mr Zachariadis, do not address specific Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u184	And I invite you tomorrow morning to go to New Ionia, go to Hallandri, go to Vrilyssia, go to Maroussi, Psychic and see PPC accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u185	Are you going to tell us about the supermarket?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u186	Yeah, I'll tell you about the supermarket, of course. You dare say? You don't dare. You said the charges on PPC's account would be 2 to 3 euros. You were talking about it! And we told you it wouldn't be 2 to 3 euros, it would be much more. Your Voter, in Psychics, from 300 euros clearing bill to 780. Will you tell me, the Psychic? Oh, no. Let's go to Metamorphosis. From 70 euros to 135 euros, where the five-and-a-half euros makes sense. Do you want me to tell you more? I'll give it to you in the Minutes. Shall we go, Mr. Pecha, see about local government? Because I heard Mr. Voridis yesterday. Really in which country does that man minister? Let me see what you're gonna say. And I challenge you to make a debate, I with Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you with Mr. Vorides and the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr. Papastergiou. You're coming here to talk about the funding of the Ottas! I will tell you what the CEDEFOP told us, not what we are saying. That there is underfunding through the CFP, that it is a problem for the imposition of a landfill fee, that there is an explosive increase in energy costs, that the return on the gas fee to the municipalities has not gone, that there is a question with the retained, that it is a big problem for the country to borrow at a rate of 1% and for the municipalities to borrow 4% of the buildings, that there is a total absence of LATVs from the Recovery Fund, from the NRV, from the Public Investment Programme, that there is a glance at the "ITIS TRITS" while the "PHILIDIS" was flying. Come on, let's talk about it. The CEDEFOP cannot say that resources are being cut, that the opposition agrees that resources are being cut and that Mr Vorides will come out of here yesterday and fight us because we say the funds we say are being cut. There are solutions. We have proposed solutions to everything. Lower fuel tax. They do so in many countries of Europe and progressive and conservative governments, Mr Vezuropoulos. It is not left for the Polish government that lowered the fuel tax to go through winter. All the progressive governments do it. Increase the minimum wage. Didn't you say a double increase in minimum wages from growth? Where's that? The world has eaten the whole energy crisis, it has eaten all winter and from 1-1-2022 you give it 50 cents a day. You don't understand how people change. You don't understand the difficulties they're going through. And you were elected by flag in the middle class and entrepreneurship!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u187	And finish, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u188	And I'll be done. Of course you have the confidence of a hundred and fifty-seven Members of Parliament. Of course you have the confidence of certain business circles, which are systematically favoured. Of course you have the confidence of some well-deserved media. But you have no confidence in the people and the people decide. The country needs a change. The country needs a fresh start. The country needs another government, progressive governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u189	Now the Deputy Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr Petsas, and then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask you a little for your tolerance to say two issues which have been raised, one for Mr Zachariadis and one for Mr Düsseldorf. First of all, for Mr Zachariadis, you said mine, you did not dare say what your proposal was. I shall therefore call on the Members of this House to listen to it, but those who listen to us. Your proposal was from March 2020, by Mr Polakis, on occasion, to check the private beds, when we did not need them, to give EUR 1,600 a day for three hundred and thirty private beds, i.e. to give more than EUR 120 million - until the date you said that I had given the interview - without needing them, to the clinical authorities. Because the National Health System had a large number of intensive care units at the time, and there was no need for any private bed requisition. If, then, we had heard you, we would have thrown 120 million euros away. That's the answer. You dare say what your proposal was and do not hide behind blurred waters. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That it is in no way our intention for intensive treatment units that we have received five hundred fifty-seven and more than doubled them. They've hired more than ten thousand people in the health system and we're doing everything we can to support it. That's the truth. And when you are using the ICUs, you are using them misleadingly, when to support the anti-embryosing cloudy waters you have been fishing for, and when to say that something else the government had to do than to encourage citizens to show collective maturity and individual responsibility. Oh, no! Secondly, with regard to what Mr Pschakis said about the border stations it is very important. It was indeed a country's backwardness that Turkey should have this border with us and we Gardens in this situation. I have to say that following coordinated actions with the region of eastern Macedonia, but also with the Ministry of Interior and Egnatia where there had been pre-study, we are close to a programme agreement between the three institutions, so that we can finally become a modern border post so that we do not get too far behind the procedures and I think that by mid-January we will be able to provide the answer we need. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary of the Greek Parliament on the state budget for the year 2022, a budget which comes to build on that of 2021 which we must not forget was tabled in the midst of the most serious health crisis of the last 100 years, as states, governments and societies throughout the world were tested last year by the strong pandemics and the resulting greater recession in post-war history. Greece has succeeded and managed first by the decisive management of the economic crisis and secondly by the prudent management of its economic consequences. Despite the unprecedented uncertainty of the pandemic Greece has succeeded because it restored confidence. A valuable intangible capital that is translated into practical financial support to the business world of households and workers. And so we all stood together. The total support of the economy and society by the state to tackle the pandemic amounts to EUR 43.3 billion in the period 2020 to 2022. This is the third largest package of support measures as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone and the fourth world, according to the recent report by the European Stability Mechanism. I repeat EUR 43.3 billion. Only when there is confidence can this money be made available to deal with an emergency, such as the global health crisis. Whatever we said we did. This confidence was inspired by both historically low interest rates on Greek securities of all duration and by the attraction of large foreign investments in global industrial and technological colostrums such as Volkswagen, Microsoft, Pfizer Digital Realty. Developments that upgrade our country's international investment map by giving new dynamics to the national economy and creating new better paid jobs. We said we'd reduce taxes on real estate. We did it. That we're going to reduce taxes on business. We did it. That we're going to reduce taxes on labour. We did it. That we are going to establish a net of investment-friendly tax incentives aimed at overthrowing Brain Drain. We did it. We have proved by numbers, not in words, the ability of the government of Mr.Mitsotakis to manage the unprecedented situation caused by the pandemic with methodicity and design without panic and spasmist movements and our determination to implement despite all the necessary reforms. The recent statistics for the first quarter showed an increase of more than 13% of GDP. Greece has been one of the few countries that overcovered the pandemic GDP loss since the third quarter of 2021. Looking back at the debate on the state budget of 2021 I talked at that time about an anchor of security and stability that would allow us not to drift from the lap of the health crisis and its consequences but to move with dynamism and consistency in the future. With the trust we are discussing today, the 2022 budget is a solid bridge between a rapid recovery and a high sustainable development for the benefit of all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's reform plan has one main objective: to make the lives of the Greeks better. In the same spirit, we are working on the part of self-government. We consistently build a relationship of confidence and continue the sectors to make the daily lives of citizens better. As the Prime Minister has said, we are dealing with loose ends that come from the past, but at the same time we are planning new major projects for the future. This clear message summarizes our desire for self-government to play an important role in the planning and implementation of these new major projects of the future. Through reforms at institutional and financial level, we are strengthening self-government to make the necessary major leap in the future. For us, the role of the self-government of our cities and regions in economic development and social cohesion is triple: development, social and cultural; sport. Developmental because no central project can be designed and implemented in the absence of local society. Social, because no central intervention when you look at it from above on the macro-level can show you how much it strengthens social cohesion at a micro-level. It is very different to observe a passenger on a plane an intervention for nursery stations throughout the country than to be a passenger on a bus of the Kappa Tau that also carries the last student from his village to the nearest school. And cultural - sporting because it is another thing to talk about protecting our cultural heritage for thousands of years and another thing to talk about fire protection in Mycenas, access to Ancient Olympia or Ancient Messini. With regard to the development role of self-government, it is the first time after many years that we have invested the responsibilities of the regions and municipalities with the relevant resources. We move to four levels. The first concerns the reforms we are implementing, the second concerns the regular financing of the TAs, the third concerns the exceptional financing and the fourth concerns the financial instruments of the Ministry of Interior. At the first level, I am talking about reforms such as the new law on the IAS, the Internal Audit Act, the new electoral law on OTAs that restores rulership to self-government, the regulation of a number of outstanding issues such as undeclared squares that have forever increased the revenues of the municipalities while they have always exempted from fines and increases in their citizens. The arrangements for dues, the facilities for the payment of instalments to the Deposit and Loan Fund, exceptional aid for the treatment of pandemic, permanent interventions in the facilitation of public contracts, the new framework for the welfare of pet animals and its secondary legislation and the upgrading of the social structures of the municipalities. We are, of course, promoting the long reform of multi-level governance in order to clear up competences and strengthen efficiency and accountability. All these interventions show that we are methodically building a solid relationship of confidence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Please for your tolerance, Mr President. At the level of regular financing we have been working in coordination to reverse the path of shortening the CAP in previous years. In this context we proceeded in October with the adoption of a further EUR 107 million CFP decision and in October with the adoption of a new additional EUR 110 million CFP to cover operating costs and current needs of the municipalities and regions, as well as the implementation of projects and investment projects. When, Mr Zachariadis, you talk about sub-financing, did the CFP pay that much money for the municipalities? And if there was underfunded in previous years in relation to the rates of taxes attributed through the CAP to self-government, what did you do when you were government? Did you commit their reserves? Did you force them to excessive strangulating surpluses in order to have the result you wanted? What did you do to reverse it? We are inverting it into practice with the numbers I have told you. And you will see that 2022 will be the year to reform the CFP in order to extend by about 15% the financial envelope and at the same time within this enlargement that we will be able to lift the injustices and distortions of the past between urban and regional municipalities, between mountainous and small island municipalities to do anyway, what we need to have a better map in relation to the distribution of resources to self-government. At the same time, in consultation with the financial staff, we are examining, on the one hand, the reduction in the interest rate on local government loans from the Deposit and Loans Fund and, on the other, the creation of an effective mechanism for recovering debts to municipalities. What did you do to reduce the robbery interest rate, Mr. Zachariadis, that you said before? What did you do? When I took over the portfolio with the Prime Minister's trust, do you know what I did? I said it's win win this case. Self-government must work with the Deposit and Loan Fund. What should self-government do? To proceed with the compatibility of the projects already received from the "Philodimos" programme and its evolution, the "ITIS RIDE" programme, so that it can make use of the resources of the Deposits and Loans Fund and not sit in billions of euros without any exploitation. On the other hand, in cooperation with the financial staff, we need to move forward with the permanent reduction in the interest rate of the Deposit and Loan Fund to actually become a bank of self-government. And you'll see it happen in the next few months. What did you do for four and a half years? You sat on them. The third level is to do with the extraordinary financing associated with either the coronary pandemic or natural disasters. We stood by the municipalities to deal with the pandemic. We have allocated a total of EUR 237.1 million. When had this money been made available, Mr. Zachariadis? They had a huge loss of revenue from the municipalities. Of course. They took increased costs to deal with the pandemic. Of course. Hand in hand we had to deal with this unprecedented situation. And we did. But we would not all be able to compensate for the EUR 1 billion lost by the people of self-government. We all put our backs on. The state, the government, the households. We all sacrificed part of our prosperity to overcome this unprecedented situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u191	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u192	You will allow me, Mr President. I'm trying to summarize to close down. Let me just say a few words about the 'ITIS ANTI-DUMP' programme and I will leave the rest of my speech. There were many issues that had to be answered in my view. With regard to the 'PHILADIMOS' programme, I heard yesterday and today that the 'PHILADIMOS' programme is not running. One-and-a-half billion euros have been included in the programme of 'NITITION'. When? After March 2021, when a loan contract was finally concluded between the EIB and the Deposit and Loan Fund to have a subsidised interest rate and to be additionally helpful to the public investment programme of the Ministry of the Interior, the new debt undertaken by the municipalities. Why didn't you sign it in the past few years? Also, with regard to the ‘PHILITIMOS’ programme, it was a tool of some 1.3 billion euros. The "ITIS ACTION" programme, with the successive increases we have made, had reached EUR 3,45 billion. We are talking about another size class, about a financial instrument that, along with the resources of the Recovery Fund, can be a real Marshall project that will bring self-government very ahead. Where she deserves it. I would, however, like to give two figures so that they do not go through that. Of the EUR 1.4 billion of the "ITIS ANTI-DUMPING" programme that we have integrated in the last few months, retain some key indicators. On the rural road, the length of the rural road that has joined, about three thousand seven hundred kilometers, is as large as the distance of Athens - Madrid. In water the length of four thousand four thousand kilometres of the aged water pipelines which are replaced twice is the distance of Athens - Munich, while the 10 million cubic meters of water that will be saved on an annual basis is equivalent to the annual demand for drinking water of a city of ten thousand inhabitants. In urban wastewater management: The three hundred thousand inhabitants for which the urban waste water treatment is improved are a population of approximately equal to the population of the permanent inhabitants of the region of western Macedonia or of the regional units of Achaia and Larissa. The creation or renewal of open spaces in urban areas, of a thousand nine hundred acres, is 1.6 times greater than the size of the largest metropolitan park in Athens, of the “Antonis Tritsis” park. And the programme's contribution from these impressive elements seems clear. I shall close, Mr President, by overlooking some of the social elements, although important, because I understand that I have exhausted every limit of your tolerance and I thank you for that. Local government is one of the most important allies in our struggle for a Greek without social exclusion, with fewer social inequalities, with more opportunities for social and economic development. And most importantly, it is an important ally in the struggle that we give so that all Greek women and all Greeks can stay and advance in their country. After many years, we now have the necessary resources, the necessary financial tools, so that we can live up to many of our dreams. So I invite you with a sense of responsibility to vote in favour of the 2022 budget, so that dreams can become plans and plans, for the sake of all the Greeks, for the sake of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u194	Mr Skourletis wants the floor for his second speech today. Did you make sense to me that you want two minutes or do you want more? Three minutes, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u195	Three minutes, Mr. President. Will we be gypsies now? Didn't you see here how the millions fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u196	I thought you made a call for two minutes. Okay, I'll give you three minutes, what you're entitled to. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Petsa, because you say and say again, in relation to the ICU, that you have more than doubled them, you have reported a certain number that you have received and more than doubled. So if you do this calculation and sum up how many tubes are yesterday, today, and how many insulated outside ICU, they do not exceed the number you say exist. So something's going on here. Because, in this number you say more than doubled, you sum up the existing military and private sectors, which you have not imposed when needed. You mentioned last year, and now there is a need, but you have not dictated them. And you say the sum of EUR 120,000, 000, but the sum of EUR 120,000,000 would be if we needed them all this time and on the basis of the triple payroll that you did. It would be $40,000 if you didn't give it to your private friends! To tell things the way they are. We're not good friends, but good accounts we have to do. Let's go down. Mr. Chiodras answered all of this about what you haven't done. But you have been avoiding this for two days. And the Prime Minister is hiding! He's hiding the Prime Minister who lied, who had this unscientific and unscientific position that it's someone's the same to be inside the ICU and outside the ICU. So when's he coming to answer? When? The opposition is not only asking for it, the Greek people are asking for it and what is going through it. So be at a lower tone, because here beyond the first moment we invited you to reach agreement. Consensus didn't show. Communicating adequacy you showed. Communication excellence, you have shown. That's where you're first, but the NSA is falling apart. And you, as Minister, have zero resources for COVID in the year it comes. Why? Because it's extra expenditure? Is COVID finished? The "Omicon" variant isn't it running? Isn't he in front of us? What will the municipalities do? They are reduced by the percentages of the budget, the expenditure, the responsibilities are increased, and the "Help at Home" has not achieved any results. What do you do about it? The questions are very specific. We - SYRIZA - reduced the CFPs by 60% with the Memorandums? It was your government. We restored things. Do you know what the world of self-government says? 'Philosopher and we will cry', because you have let a contract end with the European Bank - your predecessor - has frozen everything and now you are coming back to do what? The previous projects are still being implemented. Isn't that right? Isn't that right? So what's going on? Will you personally strengthen self-government? They're reminiscing the days of 3K. They're reminiscing emergency aid, the ACSIA fund. What's predicted? You have reduced expenditure on weather disasters at a time of climate crisis. You - and I conclude - should at least as an expressioner of the problems of the world of self-government be here and tell the Prime Minister, 'Recovery Fund: Why do you take OTAs out of this debate, from this design'? Everything from the state of Maximus? All centralised? Everything has to go through a close staff? Ministry, you're underneath. Take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u199	Well, let's give the floor now to Mr. Pecha. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] First of all, I would like to say on the subject raised by Mr Skourletis about intensive care units. Who's hiding, Mr. Skourlet? Today the Government spokesman hadn't been informed? Hasn't he given all the answers since 12:30 at noon? You could have seen it, and I would refer you to see it now, not to say that nobody is hiding. The answers have been given since 12.30 a.m. on this subject. So don't say what we want. Secondly, with regard to the ICM issues, I repeat that the statement that Mr Zachariadis read was September 2020 and I refer you to what you proposed in March 2020. Don't tell me about 2021. Are you questioning that we more than doubled the IFs? Where is he questioned? Who is it questioned that we more than doubled them? Where is the fact that more than ten thousand staff have been raised? I did not hear you say anything to question it, only to tell me that it might be so and it might be in relation to the number of intubated persons. As far as the issue is concerned, it is about the resources of self-government. The CFP, in 2021 compared with 2020, increased by around EUR 40 000. In 2022, compared with 2021, EUR 106,000 in municipalities and regions, this increase in the CAP does not, of course, have the extra costs. You know this, too, and the CEDEFOP knows that, if we need additional support for COVID, we are here and we will give it the extraordinary support for COVID to the municipalities and regions, where necessary. As I said before, we and the municipalities and households and businesses will also put our backs on this unprecedented crisis. As far as the issues you said about the loan contract with the EIB are concerned. What loan contract ended and did we not proceed with its renewal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u201	This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u202	What are you talking about? Have you signed a loan contract with the EIB?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u203	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u204	Did your government sign? Present it. Check it out. A EIB loan contract was in existence and was in government Antonis Samaras and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis made this EIB contract in March 2021 on the "ITIM OF TIME". The rest doesn't apply. With regard to the issues that you have said about the other issues of the funding of the Ottawas. Look, all the financial tools we have at our disposal, the ESRB, the "ITIS ANTI-DUTY", the Recovery Fund, through synergies, reach the change page for self-government. There is not a single mayor today to tell you that he has less resources than he had in the previous period. The resources available to self-government are unprecedented. It is a bet to mobilise and absorb them properly for the benefit of the citizens. That's the bet, not the resources. This is the main bet, to absorb them properly from the first and second degrees of self-government. And it is nothing worse than scepticising reality and going to talk about supposedly underfunding, while the main problem is structures and staff. That's where we'll agree and we'll be here to discuss it next year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u205	Good. We continue with the Members of Parliament and invite Mr Christoforo - Emmanuel Boutsikaki from New Democracy to Step. Here you go, Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Skourletis, Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, is not here to answer you because he is in Brussels and is currently fighting for our country. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today is the third drafted by the Government of the Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which is the second during the pandemic and international economic developments that it is currently bringing about. A pandemic which, despite the rapid and continuous reaction of the scientific community worldwide, still persists and is still evolving. And despite its constant development, however, our country has not only remained strong and stable, but has also taken steps forward and at economic level - which will be analysed shortly - but also in the defence of our country at all levels. Let me tell you something that, obviously, you've been through the change, because you've focused on things that are just make news - we're used to saying it very often here unfortunately with you. Yesterday, after the New Democracy party did its patriotic duty to vote for the Defence Agreement between Greece and the United States, Congress voted in favour of this bill and at the moment this convention was ratified, what you voted against in here and Erdogan did not want to do with anything. I'm coming back to our conversation. So unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, fell from 16% to 13% in September 2021. Private consumption increased. The existing jobs have not only been maintained, but have even affected, unleashed or completed many investments which, for various bureaucratic reasons, have been left out in the drawers of the competent authorities. Today, we have the opportunity to talk about a circle of investment in the Greek economy. Despite the fact that we have already counted twenty-one months in pandemic status, we have implemented policies to alleviate citizens, stimulate the market, strengthen the weak and shielding of businesses. We have reduced the tax on businesses by 22% to 22%, we have reduced the tax rate to 5%. We abolished the tax on parental benefits and donations of up to EUR 800,000 from EUR 0 - for, usually, you say yours that we favour only the rich, is supposed to. We reduced the tax advance on natural persons to 55% and 80% to legal persons. We reduced insurance contributions by at least three units. Consequence, effectiveness, pragmatism and innovation are the ones that characterize the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This year, a series of innovations are introduced, focusing on efficiency and the provision of more information. The first is the performance budget for all the institutions of the central administration, a tool on which we can monitor and evaluate effectively the grants of the agencies' programmes and the House. So we throw light on transparency in public finances. The second is the introduction of measuring indicators of the environmental footprint of policies and actions in general. We are thus focusing on the green transition. We are promoting digitisation and integrating new technologies. If the state and the government do not give an example, how do we expect citizens to follow? Finally, this year we are presenting the operational classification of general government expenditure. Since 2022 each citizen will be able to be acquainted with the costs of each individual body of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has successfully managed to face the gloomy climate, to overthrow concern and to create growth opportunities within the pandemic. The support measures we have taken have demonstrated not only the government's adaptability and quick reflexes, but also the contact it has with the whole society. With the establishment of various programmes such as GEOGRAPHY, the 'Cooperation', we have stimulated the real economy. As far as the energy crisis is concerned, the government managed and granted the "embol" to the Greek economy in time. We increased the state subsidy in the electricity and gas accounts and, as the Prime Minister said today in Brussels, we will also provide additional aid, including special privileges for farmers. In order to avoid the impact of the internationally observed transient inflationary trends, the National Action Plan for Youth was integrated into political planning, after incentives were given to incorporate young people into the labour market, with the activation of the ‘PRODUCT’ programme, by abolishing the mobile subscriber fee, by suspending the fee for pay-TV and by introducing tax incentives for the use of electronic transactions. In the critical public health sector and this year, increased costs have been anticipated. So we will even more shield the National Health System. The overall health budget is 6.3% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget not only has no tax, but instead provides for more relief, more reinforcement and real progress for all citizens. At the same time, it confirms the sense of security and gives rise, in order to drive the country further forward, to a resilient and effective environment. Tax policy must, moreover, have a developmental mark. The budget to be voted on provides at the end of 2022 a net increase of GDP of 1.7% compared with 2019. The development rate is also based on the implementation of pro-investment measures, which smoothen, improve the investment environment. In this context, there is also a further reduction in corporate income tax, incentives for combinations and synergies between small, medium and micro-enterprises, and the granting of an increased deduction for expenditure and much more. In an intensive way, there are already forty-eight projects totalling EUR 2.7 billion, some of which concern in particular my region. One of these is the transformation of Piraeus' judiciary services into a modern and minimum energy consumption of judiciary, the State of Innovation in "CHROPE", even the exploitation of the Piraeus Tower. All these flagship projects give impetus and motivation to the development of our city and put Piraeus Region finally on the global development map. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, 2022 is expected to be a year of returning the Greek economy, restoring to stability and direct development. With these few thoughts, I invite you all to show national consensus for once and to vote in favour of this budget so that you too can contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Aylonite Alexander - Christos by SYRIZA. Mr Gikas will follow and then the Minister for Immigration and Asylum will speak. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Aylonite, I have the honour to announce to the House that, with the letters of 16 December 2021 to the President of Parliament, the head of the parliamentary group of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, informs us that: First, as Parliamentary Representatives, pursuant to Rule 17(2) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament are laid down in order: MP I, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis and MP B2' Western Sector of Athens Mr. Konstantina - Nadia Giannakopoulou. Secondly, as a Secretary of Parliamentary Group, Evangelia Likoulis and Deputy Secretary, MEP, Georgios Arvanitis, was elected. The relevant letters will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u208	Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I note that there is a great deal of nervousness in the Chamber, at least before a speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I am following the debate in this House and I do not hide from you that I have been surprised not to say disgraceful. How low your government and a large part of the parliamentary group will fall and I will explain what I mean. Do you live in Greece, live in this House? Do you hear the Prime Minister and the members of the government, or do we live in parallel universes? Have you read how many dead die every day, heard that they die outside of the ICU? Do you remember what your ministers said about the ITHs? You think that with what I'm saying, I'm repeating myself in relation to others. Every minute you'll hear it. You will be hurt by hearing from all the speakers the same thing. Didn't you have any indications that we have more mortality in patients than those in ICUs? Didn't you have such signs? Do you remember how you applauded the Prime Minister when he said that? Where I am, he said it. You're listening for a pluralist time. It was causing us, in fact, to say: “I have no such indication. No, I don't. Do you have one? Bring her in.’ Have you been informed that the team leader advises you how to deal with the coronary is Mr. Chiordas? Am I wrong? You may not have heard his name. Both are the accomplishments. One is Prime Minister of Greece and Mr. Chiordas is the leader of all troops, the pan-strategic, against the coronary. These two people don't agree with each other? Is it not funny, is it not tragic, today, to be disproved by the mouth of the Governing Representative, rather that the Government's representative claims that Mr Mitsotakis did not know? Then where are we going if the two leaders, the two officers in the war against the coronary, do not agree? In May 2021 a report - Mr Zachariadis told you. See you every day. And you say we say the same again. You'll hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u210	For the budget, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u211	We'll tell you about the budget, Mr. Besyropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u212	Please don't interrupt. Carry on, Mr. Aylonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u213	You are defending this logic today. You defend it and you don't feel ashamed. Where is shame and political emotiveness? In the parallel universe that you are surely living there is no shame or empathy. In our universe, in our own, they resign, as in many other countries in the world, after such a story, because they have to play with human life. And with human life, they don't play. So in my scientific world, Mr. Besyropole, in the legal world, when you tell someone like this with urgency and with the confidence that you have to do that and do not do it, you act with a potential delusion and, in fact, with an overly greedy deluge. You know that from your omissions or your synergies the result can come. What's going on with Mr. Mitsotakis? What's the matter with Mr. Chiorda? How can these two people come to an agreement and lead hundreds of people to perhaps thousands of tubes outside of the ICU? And today Mr. Petsas comes in, and what does he say to justify what he said in September 2020? That if at that time Mr. Paulakis was telling him, you see him at night in your dreams, you were ordering clinics and personnel, you would pay the millions of people. And the 120 million that you gave 'Aegean', the 30-40 million that you gave the media, are they offset? Are there any arguments for human lives?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u214	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u215	What am I saying? People out there see, ma'am. He's watching.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u216	For the budget, tell us. Four and forty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u217	Honestly, in our view, science has lifted its hands up with your policy. Your MPs consciously see the lie and support you by throwing their national character on top of them as national MPs of the country. I choose my words one by one. With what I see in here, the House and our citizens are affected. We are here as national MPs and we have a national pandemic in front of us, and you very much support the lie. One to say once Mr. Mitsotakis was wrong. Did one here say so through this seat, from this House? Tell me one. And you're telling me not to have the opportunity, the right and the obligation to shout, to repeat for everything I see in front of me? On the budget, if we were not in here, you would convince the Greek citizens that it is an oath to abolish family income. You would convince them that accuracy is a fiction of the imagination of sick minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Vésyropoulos, the budget is for all the ministries. That's why they catch a ministry. Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's dear colleague said that we are in a 'parallel universe'. SYRIZA is probably in a "parallel universe" with all that he said. After the recession of 9% in 2020, 2021 is a year of significant recovery, as the revised forecast expects an increase in GDP of 6.9%, one of the highest in Europe, while there is provision for a reduction in unemployment. To say here that in September 2020 unemployment was 16.5%, while in September 2021 it came down to 13%. Obviously, the lifting of the restrictive measures gave our economy a great boost, but what played a decisive role was the big support package in the year 2020 - 2021, which amounted to 40 billion. We voted seventy meters here, which helped our businesses, our fellow citizens, the households. It was the fourth largest backup package in the world. Also, although the opposition disputes that the government's policy is effective, this proves the evidence, the figures and, of course, some strict observers, I will say. Just last week, Eurogroup welcomed the Greek Government's progress towards the Greek economy in areas such as financial management, energy market, privatization, investment, etc. On the same day, on 6 December, the head of the International Monetary Fund, Mrs Georgieva, said that the country was doing very well and spoke about a great achievement of the Greek economy. One day later, the German Minister of Finance, Mr Christian Lindner, said that in recent years, with very impressive reform measures, the Greek economy has been achieved on a new path of success. And of course, these officials don't think they belong to our party. Please for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stefanos Gikas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm coming to 2022 next year. Our economy is expected to grow by 4.5%, which cumulatively with 2021, we are talking about a two-year growth of 11.7%, one of the highest at European Union level. The driving force for growth will be the implementation of the "Greece 2.0", which will reach about 3% of GDP and, of course, the overall increase in investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the total investment cost for 2022 will exceed EUR 11 billion. It's a huge investment cost. Of these, the 7.8 billion will come from the national and co-financed part of the EIP and of course 3.2 billion from the Recovery Fund. Let me say that the budget does not provide for a new tax or an increase in an existing tax, and of course the reductions in taxes and insurance contributions introduced continue to apply. I would also say that - contrary to what SYRIZA says - the Ministry of Health's budget is increased and is EUR 5.257 000, while the total cost of all health ministries will exceed 11,000,000, while one of the three recruitments that will be made in 2020 - 2022 will be in the health sector. I'm coming to defense issues. When two years ago, from this Step in the budget in December 2019, I proposed to double the Armed Forces' expenses, I did not imagine that within a short period of time our Government would double, but would quadruple the Armed Forces' armaments expenditures, thereby giving the Armed Forces, the General Staff, the physical leadership, the ability to draw up an integrated, studied, targeted, large-scale armaments programme that proclaims them and drastically increases the country's deterrent capacity. And, of course, it covers a decade that, as we all know, the armaments programmes have been in jeopardy and not only for economic reasons, but also for wrong political decisions, gentlemen of the SYRIZA. Of course, the reinforcement of the defensive arm is not fragmented. It is together and jointly, with a multi-dimensional, targeted, well thought out foreign policy and diplomacy, which in the last two years has succeeded, firstly, in resolving a number of outstanding issues such as, for example, the definition of maritime zones, etc. which had been pouring for thirty years. Secondly, with critical agreements, alliances, strategic partnerships, defence agreements with a defence aid clause, it has managed to bring Greece to a critical player, a factor in our wider geopolitical region that has a voice, view, position, intervention in all international fora and, of course, international organisations. It has also achieved the so-called "Greek Turkey" problems of being Euro-Turkish, thus being treated and treated by the European Union, with what this implies for our national interests. These two, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, the strengthening, increasing the defence capacity, the deterrent power of the country and the upgrading of diplomatic power, are the basis for ensuring the peace, stability and security of Greek citizens. And I am proud that the Greek Government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, has done this! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, the 2022 budget is a development budget. He is socially fair, with a social sign, an extrovert, a modern one, he supports competitiveness. It gives particular emphasis and importance to the green transition, the digital transition, the modernisation of the state and the general public. It marks a new era for our economy, a time for recovery, growth and prosperity. For these reasons, of course, I am voting in favour of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis, is invited in Vima, which I would ask to keep the tenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in immigration, in Evros and in our islands, in our national threats, the country reacted, defended, organised and finally defeated, as the Prime Minister said on Friday in the Political Committee of New Democracy. As the measurable results of our policy prove, in our country we regained control of immigration, with decongestion taking place throughout Greece. I note that, in the country today, thirty-four hosting structures operate, compared with a hundred and twenty ones that were two years ago. There are now a total of thirty-four thousand asylum seekers living in our country in all kinds of structures and apartments, of which three thousand seven hundred on our islands, i.e. 11%. On the day of the 2019 elections, eighty-two thousand asylum seekers lived in our country and on our islands 21%, that is, seventeen thousand people. SYRIZA, that is, twice the percentage of the inhabitants of the islands and five times their absolute number. Then our islands had become the storehouses of souls and place of shame for our country. Today, in mainland Greece, there are thirty-one thousand asylum seekers, compared with sixty-five thousand on the day of the elections, in response to those who claim that the decongestion of the islands has caused congestion in mainland Greece. The flow is now very low. This year will be eight thousand arrivals, compared with fourteen thousand in 2020, compared with seventy-two thousand in 2019, compared with over one million in 2015. The currently pending asylum cases are forty-five thousand against two hundred and two thousand in July 2019. While the situation in our country improves, migration remains a key problem for the European Union as a whole with multiple fronts. A clear effort is being made to work on human pain with a view to geopolitical and economic benefits. We experienced it in 2020 in Evros and in our islands. We are experiencing it as a Europe in 2021 at the border with Belarus. These are events that inevitably affect the way in which we are faced with the migratory crisis, events affecting our country's attitude to the new upcoming Immigration and Asylum Pact. The main aim for our country is the practical solidarity between the Member States, namely the fair sharing of the effects of the crisis between the Member States. But at the same time, for Greece, the new pact must also achieve a low management height of flows and this is our great difference with the Greek and European Left. From the start we have been pursuing a strict but fair immigration policy with two specific objectives: firstly, a substantial reduction in flows and, secondly, a drastic reduction in the impact of the crisis on local communities. The guarding of our borders is a constitutional obligation to the citizens of our country, which we must always fulfil with respect for international and European law. Our country is not going to be Europe's back door again. The open borders policy has been linked to the period of governance SYRIZA and has been condemned not only in Greece but also at European level. The national reception system shall be completed. The new closed controlled structures were inaugurated in Samos, Kos and Lero. The first controlled structure in the mainland in Malakasa was inaugurated. In 2022, the new structures in Chios and Lesvos will be inaugurated, and the upgrade of the Bridge HOT will be completed. All structures in our country will gradually become closed and controlled, completing infrastructure with perimeter fences, entrance gates and necessary security measures. In other words, we restore the image of the state in the eyes of local communities, we offer an increased sense of security to the beneficiaries, to our staff and to local communities. We recognise the impact of the crisis on local communities. We have adopted this year the extension, the permanentization of the island VAT on the five islands that have lifted most of the crisis, while at the same time we have succeeded at European Union level to give us the right to bring back what we have been deprived of in 2015 by SYRIZA, namely the island VAT on all islands. And not just that. For the local communities, we have established a permanent mechanism to compensate residents for damages through local government. We have proceeded with the payment of compensation fees and allowances from 1-1-2019 retrospectively, and we have approved seventy-one infrastructure projects in thirty-one municipalities in the Solidarity Fund, giving a total of EUR 55 million to municipalities and regions for the needs of local society in the period 2020-2021. I would like to stress this point, ladies and gentlemen. The New Democracy's resignation is in no way against the immigrants or people who are really in danger. We're across the poaching circuits that exploit human pain. I recall that we recently welcomed hundred women officials from Afghanistan with their families, a total of seven hundred people who ran a high risk in an organised manner. We have thus demonstrated our country's reflexes of humanism. We ensure routes of legal immigration in the country, in order to discourage those who attempt to cross the threshold illegally, but also the networks of poachers who, as I said, exploit hope, exploit people for economic benefits. We support legal immigration in a beneficial way for our country and in real prospects of membership for themselves. We have also succeeded in getting back the management of structures that the previous government had given to NGOs and taking over control of food, housing, financial benefits from international organisations. We responded to the challenge of pandemic. And despite the overpopulation we had on our islands in 2020, we had no loss of human life in the structures of asylum seekers on our islands from the beginning of the pandemic to the present day. At the same time, we are moving towards digital transformation and the asylum process and the process of legal immigration with an emphasis on transparency, best practices, economic management. At the opposite, SYRIZA, between 2015 and 2019, our country received EUR 2.07 billion, of which 1.8 was directly allocated to NGOs and international organisations. While for the costs of the Greek public, no contract came to the House under Rule 32(9) of the Rules of Procedure, and we have already submitted to Parliament five contracts. At the same time, we abolished the provision of Article 96 of Law No.4368/2016 which allowed the Ministry of Migration to derogate from the award of invitations to tender. We now follow the normal public procurement procedures. We have proceeded to international competitions and framework agreements, the best international practice for the needs of the Ministry, using the resources of the national programmes of the Funds, we have brought an additional EUR 500 million this year to our country. Now, in 2022 the budget is allocated to Ministry EUR 93.3 million, of which 50 million will be allocated to municipalities and regions of the country to deal with the impact on local communities of the migratory crisis either as infrastructure projects or as residents' compensation. And from there on, the public investment programme provides for EUR 10 million for the national part, EUR 120 million co-financed projects which are covered by a lot of 100% of the European Union and EUR 21 million from the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget achieves the strong recovery of the economy and aims at moving our country to a new era of strong, extroverted and sustainable development for all. We have had multiple crises since 2019. Without triumphs and full consciousness of the new challenges that are emerging, we continue on the path that we have already taken. We owe it to the Greek citizens. We owe it to the new generation. We owe it to Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr Mitarakis. The Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonakis, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u223	We have discussed the issue of illegal immigration many times. We would like details of our Greek problem. How much money Greece spends, why you didn't tell us anything. You said only the funds that SYRIZA received and which went from 2.7 billion to NGO and you quite rightly put it. How much money does the Greek citizen spend on feeding these people into closed controlled structures? Are they closed or controlled? Because if you go to Malakasa, you'll see that the whole world is out. Go and tie up over there what's going on. What about Evros' continuous flow? The flows from Evros have not stopped at all, you know that very well. And what about the issue of illegal immigrants in central Athens and Thessaloniki? In the center of Athens no one can come near anymore, you see it daily. Do they all have papers to be legal here? What's going on? What are we doing? These are the issues which the Greek citizen is concerned with, because the robberies, drugs and all that we see every day are carried out in the area of the centre of Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u225	Here, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. The question of the Greek Parliamentary Representative is probably asking for a second speech. But I'll try to answer it in one minute. I told you our ministry has an annual budget of 93 million. 50 million goes directly to municipalities and local communities. The payroll of the Ministry's staff is EUR 22 million. Our total expenditure is EUR 21 million. In this, of course, it is not just immigration that is what we call legal immigration. They are all services which give legal residence permits for workers, for workers in agricultural work, for family reunification, for various categories. From there on, the programmes we manage with the European Union are financed by the European Union. This applies to feeding, to the operation of structures, to the construction of new structures. They are programmes which all come either 100% with European funding or 75%. On the subject of flows, I told you very specifically. Overall this year in both the islands and the Evros, the flows are eight thousand compared to a million in 2015 and seventy-two thousand in 2019. In the cities we have thirty - one thousand people across the country, while we had sixty - eight thousand in 2019. So decongestion is now a reality in the islands where the dwellings have decreased by 78%, as well as in the center of Athens in relation to the past. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, Democritus said that the oblivion of the same evil envy bears. And I am watching the New Democracy's honourable rhetoric come to Stepma and try to confront a cruel and painful reality that has suddenly come into public life, noting what the Opposition was saying, that is, the concern we expressed about what is happening to people permeated outside of the ICU. And if this report, ladies and gentlemen, did not have the name 'Sotiris', the Prime Minister's friend, then in a very easy way you would try to degrade it. The report, however, bears the name 'Tsiodras' along with the name of Mr Lytras. And I really am astonished by the fact that you express a public speech, over and above that thousands of people have actually been murdered outside the ICM. That's the reality. And I wonder: The night you lie down - why do I consider you conscientious people and the man when he lies in his bed at night come to mind what happened in the day - do you not drown the Lovers? We have pointed out your mistakes and weaknesses. You were moving the finger from this Step. Mr President, the Prime Minister of the country, by addressing the Greek Parliament and by this to the Greek people, told us and swinging our fingers: 'Do you have any information? I don't have any information whether or not ICUs actually suffer from something different from those inside the ICU." I shall put forward the statement, Mr President, here in the Minutes. Once again, what was the Prime Minister telling us? That there's no study at all. And, oh of the miracle, what happened? It is suddenly published that the government and the Prime Minister since May this year had been officially informed. Because it was stated - and neither was Mr Tsiodra nor Mr Lytra - that the information was made at the highest level. Unless you tell us that the President of the Republic has been informed and the Prime Minister has not been informed. Today you chose the least evil, to recognize the prime representative of the government that the Prime Minister had not been informed. It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace! It's disgraceful! It's misery! It's a challenge! It is courageous to address the Greek people and to say that the Prime Minister did not know about the crime that he has perpetuated and is constantly committed to the people who did not have the luck to be inside the ICUs. And I ask you, my friend who's lost who's bringing him back? Who's gonna apologize for my friend? For our compatriot's mother? For Father? For the brother? Who will apologise, ladies and gentlemen, when Mrs Angelopoulos comes, visiting Thessaloniki and says that she was left unannounced, why did the Commission pay for 1821 for the establishment of IFU units and there are no doctors? And their doctors flew out, seven and a half thousand doctors, because they hadn't been vaccinated. But you didn't do the same to the police, because that's your place, you think it's your place of influence. You didn't do the same. This is a selective, provocative and insulting choice for the Greek people. So we expect the Prime Minister, who should have really resigned after this revelation, to come. Because you're going to apologize, you won't go through it like that. Because people were murdered in this environment! Do you understand? Do you realize what's happened in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u229	Shame on you! Lacquism!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u230	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u231	Shame on you! You've got nerve! It's a disgrace to speak! At least keep quiet! Shame on you! It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u232	Please, Mr. Marcopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u233	You murdered people, that's what you did! Are you insisting? Shame on you! It's a disgrace to you! What I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u234	Get it back! Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Marcopoulou, one word and you're coming out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u236	It's a disgrace to you! Thousands of people were murdered. This is the reality, whether you like it or not you like it. No matter how quiet you are, you won't get over it. It's a disgrace to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Curublis, please don't cause!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u238	Are you telling me this, Mr. President? Are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Marcopoulou, please, one more word and you're going out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u240	Then call it off!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u241	No, Mr President, I have the right to speak from anywhere in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u242	If he wants to withdraw and please withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u243	I'm not withdrawing anything. I'm not withdrawing anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u244	Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u245	Please! Mr. Marcopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u246	People were murdered! You'll apologize for my friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u247	He doesn't call it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u248	We're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u249	Will you say about the budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u250	Whatever you do is accountable for what is being done and at least show modesty, acknowledge that there is a mistake! At least recognize the mistake! Don't have that nerve! People died, do you understand that thing? People died unfairly! That is the truth and nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u251	Hang up, Mr. Kurubli, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, from the outset we have stressed the need to staff the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u253	Ten thousand were hired!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u254	Temporary, sir, temporary!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u255	Please, let him finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u256	On March 30, gentlemen, the conventions of these people expire! It's another thing. You don't know, you're irrelevant! It's another thing to be permanent, one man in the health system and another to take him for six months. That's what you've done! Don't talk! Be a little embarrassed! A little shredded!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u257	Don't cause and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis' government has come to cut the prescription. Is that why you are proud, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? You have cut the prescribing of uninsured people from neighborhood doctors who have contracted with EEAY, not only the uninsured, but also the disabled, the bleeding, and you are sending them to hospitals to get COVID to go where those killed so far have been outside the ICM...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u259	And hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u260	That's the truth. You don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u261	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Marcopoulou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u263	Whatever you say, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u264	Hang up, let's find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, at the same time that this is happening in the lives of the Greeks, the government with the budget...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u266	You've exceeded time by two minutes, Mr. Kurubli. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u267	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u268	Now are we going to talk about the budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u269	Yeah, but you have to keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u270	No, I won't keep anything for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u271	I was interrupted, Mr. President. I have a right to speak. I am a Member of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u272	You have, but you've exceeded...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u273	I have a right to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u274	There's plenty of time, Mr. Kurubli!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u275	No one has the right to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u276	What do you think? The Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u277	What I'm telling you. I have a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u278	What I'm telling you. The Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u279	I know the Rules of Procedure better than anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u280	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as these terrible and terrible things are happening in the country, lives are being lost, we have great absences...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u282	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u283	You reduce the budget to health and reduce the budget by 130 million in primary health care.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u284	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u285	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u286	What a minute, Mr. President? You've spoken for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u287	I didn't talk. I'm constantly interrupted!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u288	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u289	Show me the tolerance you've shown others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u290	I've shown her for three minutes. How much longer do I show?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u291	No, that is not the case, Mr President. The same is true of pensioners. So you said in 2019, when we voted for the thirteenth pension, that this EUR 800 pension, which took 2 million people, was crumbs. Today with 8% growth you're mocking pensioners, who a million two thousand people from them get a pension of less than 700 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Curublis, don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u293	You told us the same thing when you voted here in the House that 0.5% of GDP would go to vulnerable groups. And where did he go with a provision that you guys voted for two months ago? He went for the private subsidiary fund to the Golden Boys of the administration to which you have secured immunity as many others. Retired people took their one-year retrospectives last year and instead of taxing them last year with 20% of the tax you are taxing them today with 46%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u294	Hang up, Mr. Kurubli, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u295	I conclude by saying that you have made a public commitment and cheated on the Greek people that workers and minimum wages will get twice as high as growth. Growth is 8%, workers had to take 16% and give them 2%. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u296	Before you leave, I want you to withdraw...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u297	The problem remains if the Prime Minister knew this crime and if he didn't know to go home!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u298	Mr Kurublé, I would like you to withdraw the 'killers', please very much. Or I'll erase it. The MPs are not murderers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u299	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u300	No, okay, I want you to call on the microphone to hear it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u301	I know what I'm saying and I know Greek well, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u302	I'll erase it. Mr Kurublé, for the last time, do you want to withdraw before the next speaker begins?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u303	Rescind what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u304	What you said: 'Murdering MPs'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u305	My friend, who's bringing him back that was out of my mind? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u306	I beg the stenographers to bring it to me to erase it. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed a misery, an extremist populism and a nightmareic populist who pretends to have failed to understand what he said, a Member who dared, who had the courage to blame a Prime Minister and an entire party as murderers in the Greek Parliament and who asks him to withdraw and pretend that he did not understand the atom, the courage, the challenge, the shame he caused in the Greek Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u308	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u309	Please don't go on, Mr. Kurubli!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u310	But what he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u311	Wait a minute, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u312	No, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u313	Let's get the whole thing back to the beginning. I don't want to interrupt. I'm just... Mr. Curublis, first and foremost, wear a mask. Please! Here you go, Mr. Kumucaco, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u314	Two requests: One to the Party of Officers, now - and I am prepared to suspend my speech - to officially separate his position from his misery, the insults of an unacceptable MEP. Now! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Officially, then, the Civic Opposition will do it if it dares! Mr. Skourletis, this question is on you. It turns on you, but that's not all. If, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u315	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u316	If, Mr President, this nightmareist who was at Step does not recall, I intend to come down from the Step to a sign of protest. This cannot be heard in the Greek Parliament! I cannot tolerate it either my personal public course or my resignation or anyone else. A whole series of killers, ladies and gentlemen, has been heard! Do you accept that, the rest of you? Can you stand it? Your turn will come soon and I expect the parties to be placed for this misery, unprecedented misery, where at the time of the war - because we give war, we fight with external invaders to the everyday life of our lives, pandemics and accuracy - to poison the joint effort to a divisive degree. Will you tolerate it? I am not prepared to enter a debate as if nothing had happened to the budget unless the SYRIZA is placed. If I may, Mr President, remain silent at the Step until my time is completed and get off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Kumucaco, he's left the Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u318	I take advantage of my time, as I tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Skourletis is a parliamentary representative. He'll ask why, he'll take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u320	I'll wait for another five minutes to go silent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u321	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u322	So little you're laughing, so little and sad. You don't understand what happened just now in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u323	If you're done, I'll take the floor, but go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u324	I'm done. I guess not. I interrupt to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u325	He's doing his intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u326	There's no interruption. Or you'll come down and I'll take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u327	Can the Bureau give a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u328	Sure. I will give you the solution to continue your speech and then Mr Skourletis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u329	So let's go to the budget, although it sounds like a partner to talk about serious issues, after these misery that has been heard by the Anti-Civilisation. Prosperity for society as a whole and the point of balance, efficiency and social justice are the constant quest for economic science. However, this request, ladies and gentlemen, is not theoretical or, nonetheless, it is not just theoretical. First of all, it is a social demand and we are struggling to respond, as a government and as an exception, to a storm of imported crises. We have war, battles we fight with external intruders to our normality. We are fighting this with the citizens and citizens. The pandemic disturbed the lives of all of us. He hit the world economy and inevitably hit the Greek one. At the same time, it highlighted the great importance of state intervention to achieve social well-being. The policy of the government has defined the real needs of the citizens, the need to protect them from the deadly pandemic, the balance of the internal market and the protection of businesses and workers. This whole time of compass was a social need and not ideological entanglements. The state was present, intervene, secure, protect. It was therefore double the government's bet: to support businesses and households and to create at the same time the conditions for faster recovery, which would lead to fair growth. The Greek state in exceptional war conditions has shown that it can design and implement public policies in order to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. And no one can deny or ignore that the government has taken measures to support the economy and society of more than EUR 43 billion in the years 2020 to 2022. No one can downgrade or worse, deceive an economic package that has never been made available by any other Greek government as a percentage of GDP in support of the real economy, the third largest in the Eurozone, according to the figures of the European Stability Mechanism, following Italy and Germany and the fourth world, if we add Japan. We have kept the country's productive fabric upright, without making any discounts on the necessary structural reforms and the state's digitisation. It was, after all, our election commitment. In recent years we have reduced the HPAI, the tax rate on natural persons, we have reduced the advance tax on legal and natural persons, we have reduced the corporate income tax from 28% to 22%. We reduced the withholding tax rate to half of the dividends, from 10% to 5%. The 2022 budget is a reference point for returning the country to a development path. Records the transition of the economy from the recovery of 2021 to the growth of 2022. And I go to the end, since the House has consumed so much time on the misery that it has heard and I fear that, if it is not solved in the next few minutes, it will poison this debate by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u330	Please! You've said it many times!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget - all New Democracy colleagues and ministers have spoken about it in detail - is consistent and realistic. It reflects the dynamics of the Greek economy, its passage from recovery to growth and serves the fundamental priority of our economic policy and our traditional consciousness: No citizen stays behind. This requires the criticality of the challenges and the history of our resignation. We went, we go and we will always go with the citizens and the citizens. With the state in order, the reforms continue, the growth economy and the government intervening with social fair policies and care for the economically weaker, the 2022 budget makes Greece stronger, the growth fairer and opposition smaller than they already are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much. The reason for this is the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Skourletis, whom I would ask very much, through my heart, because he has the abilities to say what he wants to say without more dynamising the climate. Then Mrs. Giannakopoulou will speak. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u333	You did not have to introduce this, Mr President, because I think that those who feel the criticalness of moments, who are really shocked by what is happening in our country - throughout the world, but in our country it was not legalistic to be twice as high as the average for human life - have in these two days been a strong political criticism in relation to the management of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u334	In this particular case, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u335	Mr. President, please. It is quite serious. Now they don't need a vacation. We have made a specific criticism. We have asked specific questions. We didn't get answers. As long as political responsibilities are not answered - I stress, political responsibilities - you realise that we are opening up the way for phrases that may be miserable and misunderstood. Our site does not adopt the logic of what he said on February 21, 2021, the former Minister of PDO, that SYRIZA burned hundreds of people in Matti. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We didn't make a drone or do it. We speak with principles, with solidarity in the world, conscious of the great problems we have, and so we shall continue to do so. If you want to spread on this road, do it. If you want to exploit, through charging, an unstable phrase not to answer what you have to answer, go on. People are judging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, too. Mrs Giannakopoulou, KINAL Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Those who think that the battle against the coroner is being offered for political exploitation are being mistaken. In this war, the responsible attitude of all of us is decisive in this battle. We cannot let it drown us, along with the coronary, populism or insanity. We are not going to take the floor, Mr President, on the level of the debate here in the Greek Parliament, against deaths. We're not going to be tornadoes above the ICU, over the MIDs, over the victims, over the dead. We will not undermine the national effort of all of us, especially the national effort of the Greek people. We, the Change Movement, will be here, with responsibility, seriousness, sobriety, to exercise a hard but programme opposition, always with proposals, always with a positive sign, because that is our debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, just now, in a crescendo of populism, a Member of the Officerial Vice-President, addressing the Members of the New Democracy, he called them murderers. I would ask you to invite him to withdraw...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u340	I've done it three times, Mr. Buquoir. There's nothing more I can do, it'll just be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u341	Of course these characterizations characterize him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u342	No, don't take it there right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u343	We heard before...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u344	Now I have to ask you to delete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u345	The designations characterise the same, the quality of its public speech. To understand, to understand, Mr President. If I wasn't clear, I'd make it up to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u346	Now I get it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u347	I have heard Mrs Giannakopoulou earlier, who has criticised this morning since this morning, indirectly but clearly to condemn such tactics. And I am aware, from the public positions of the last few days, that many officers of the Officerial Representation have condemned such practices. A characteristic case is the friend, who is present. It is unacceptable for the Greek Parliament, a Member of Parliament, to address Members of Parliament who represent the majority of the Greek people in the framework of a legitimate governmental majority and an elected government, which also enjoys great trust. The expressions which have been heard today in the Greek Parliament are condemned. We call on the colleague to withdraw them, to delete them from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u348	That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u349	Otherwise, Mr President, this will indeed be a good thing for our Parliament. In any case, the leadership of the Officerial Response should also put some measures in place, and let us put a framework in place. It is not possible for Parliament to hear such expressions, such unscrupulous accusations, because we believe that we are familiar with everything and possess the one and only truth. We're not. Everyone expresses their opinion democratically, has been dialogue, intense controversy, criticism of course all these days, but these expressions are unacceptable. And I would ask that my colleague be asked to withdraw from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u350	I've asked for it three times. You won't be begging him, he's not a child.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u351	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u352	Ms. Giannakopoulou, don't let us take it that way, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u353	A phrase, Mr President. Let me say something because Mr. Bukokouros mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u354	Others have referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, not indirectly...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u356	Clearly I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u357	We in the Change Movement are clearly and totally condemning such extremities and such retracting voices. I want it to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs Papariga, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u359	We of the Communist Party of Greece do not feel at all the need to use in our political confrontation, insults, designations. We do not feel that need at all, even when we may at some point be angry at something we hear, with something that refers to us. Today we are discussing the budget on the third day. As long as I've watched the conversations from the House on TV, what do I hear? "You're a liar, you're a con man, you're a cannibal, you're a murderer" etc. One would say if a third, completely ignorant, came here between SYRIZA and New Democracy and the other parties, there are differences of principle. Do you know what you reminded me of this controversy? That you're roommates in the same building, and you're fighting for who's gonna manage and who's gonna do the best. You guys are roommates. Your confrontation unfortunately hides from the Greek people your sympathy and condolence. There are, of course, differences in the overall policy line. Do you know what it looks like? With the relations between Greece and Turkey, of course, there are differences. It is a challenge that the Turkish Government is doing before all about the Aegean Sea and so on. At the same time you are allies in joint military operations, roommates in NATO and move in the absolute common direction. Your differences have not prevented you. And that, if you want, is the problem that the Greek people have to see. Not only for who will come to governance - that is definitely an element - but who better implements the Recovery Fund's programme now, the green economy and the transition to the 'digital' era and I am quoted because this is not a new era. You are not fighting, for example, for the role assigned to Greece, to be the bridging of the United States and NATO in the region, with the aim, of course, of the South-East Mediterranean, the region of Ukraine, Russia, etc. We don't hear voices here. The only difference is whether we make a negotiation, an agreement with the United States that lasts one, two years and not five, for consideration and everything else. You've got a common navigation line. We start from a completely different starting point, and that's why we don't boil. What is the starting point for integrating it into the budget debate? For us, the contrast between the capitalists on the one hand and the working class on the other and the poorer people on the other is uncompromising and not generally in the mid-size space and the middle-stage layers that you deliberately cover all parties, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and others, forgetting the stratification that have the intermediate layers and forgetting that part of the intermediate layers has common interests. It's not small with the working class. Uncompromising opposition. Whatever we are discussing today, like what will be made available from the state budget for the people, what taxes will be cut, this debate makes no sense unless it runs away. Let me give you an example. You say, the government says, for example, that 'Marchs are available, we are the third country from Europe that has a large package and everything else. And this package is available for development." Most of it is available to capitalist businessmen and a condition for its availability is increasingly cheaper and more manipulated and more subordinated labour force. The New Democracy says: 'We will make a fair distribution from the result of growth'. SYRIZA comes in and uses a term. But in terms too, you have been aligned with the New Democracy, not with its general political line or with the general political line of capitalists. And you tell SYRIZA: "But here there must be a greater social dividend." What are the workers? Shareholders in capitalist businesses to get a dividend? The dividend is taken by the shareholders in the capitalist business. Social dividend, redistribution of wealth, minimum wage rise. Of course, if you hear our slogans, demands and positions in the movement and not just from Parliament's ammunition, and we want brave wage increases, abolishing tax, abolishing indirect taxes. But we are responding and how this abolition will take place. You don't say that. For wages may grow a little, a tax may be abolished, but on the other hand, it will still be collected by the working people. Where should the increase in wages or the reduction in taxes or the abolition of taxes be passed? It has to be passed on to capitalist employers. That's not what any other party in this House says. None! It's not possible for both of you to win. They're exploiters and exploiters. There is still no popular conquest - under other conditions, with a great deal of class struggle, with better international correlation that survived and maintained its dynamics for many years - because big capital and governments that manage the fate of post-changing costs in the other worker's pocket. Let me give an example: the government says, it will reduce HISBIA, we will have the green HISBIA. Today all the newspapers write about the big program, a million homes will enter the energy renovation program. A million homes! We are talking about houses built in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and these houses really have nothing to do with the need for a modern popular residence. Who's gonna pay for this? The rents are coming up. How did the rents get up? From the development of tourism from high income tourists to major hotel complexes and Airbnb. That's how the rent went up. Some may have won their homes in this form, but most of them cannot afford rent. The self-inhabitation has been greatly reduced in Greece. Take the salaries: But, will it be 700 euros, will it be 800 euros, will the minimum wage be 900 euros? Is that just the issue? How will it be dealt with not transferring the burden to another tax, to an indirect, direct, and so on? We are therefore clearly saying that, when we claim increases, we are not only confined to nominal wages, but we are talking about the abolition of VAT on people's consumption, about the abolition of taxation at the expense of the people and about raising the burden of big capital and so on. Will you tell me, is it possible within capitalism that capitalists volunteer these concessions? No, no way, we don't have that kind of delusion. On the other hand, we will in no way limit ourselves to proposing, as the other parties have done, alpha or beta management with the aim, in any case, that objective which the other parties have, that we leave you, go, I come to your place. Yes, the working people can get some concessions under certain conditions. First of all, it can escape the logic of parties that are saviours and medieval ones. In fact, this is where the controversy has been completely embedded. What do we hear? Mitsotakis, Tsipras, now Androylakis is in the game, who's going with who. And only this conversation shows that you have no principle differences between you. If PASOK can go with New Democracy or it can go with SYRIZA, it is a demonstration, the whole debate that is being held, which shows that you have no differences of principle, you have no strategic differences, as we say, you do not have programmatic differences. All other differences are normal. After all, there are conflicts between the Member States of the European Union, the governments, the rivalries have the monopolistic groups through such opposition. That's the competition. Competitiveness does not exist only in the field of the economy, there is also at the political level among those who support this rotten exploitation system. We therefore say that the people can save the people, of course under conditions. Before all, they must realize, their working class and their allies, their power. Secondly, the uncompromising contrast with capital and capitalists. Uncompromising! Not confined to the battle against the one and the other government, but to fight against the sovereign order. For example, the government says: "The accuracy is exogenous, it comes from outside." How's it coming from outside? The same factors that, outside Greece, lead to accuracy, are also in Greece. Capitalist growth equals accuracy, inflation, if the pace of capitalist growth rise. Bring me a period of growth of capitalism in Greece in the 20th century that did not come with him in inflation. However, I should like to say to you this: the extroversion, which you are supporting all the parties, entails a selective exploitation of agricultural produce and exports. And only export costs rise in Greece. Thirdly, competition, competitiveness raises profits. The interconnection of Greece's domestic energy with the European Union will bring new increases. Privatisation has brought in increases. What are we talking about? To control prices, as SYRIZA says. How will price control be carried out? Since the system has its own laws and tendencies. No government, whether it is called progressive or communist, etc. On the territory of capitalism, it cannot undo the laws of the system. And the basic law is the law of profit and over-profit and the trend the capitalist economy has seen from a phase to phase. We'll say it clearly. This confrontation these days is not just disgusting, I'm sorry. It's literally disgusting when we hear about killers, liars, crooks and so forth. It's dangerous to the people. Systemically and consciously you are trying to corroborate the working people's consciousness at a time when the focal points are multiplying from the bottom and conditions are created to form a pan-Hellenic movement. Because only a pan-Hellenic movement of the working class and its social allies can scare capitalists, force them to certain concessions so that they don't lose in the process and more. And if the people win some concessions, they must be a starting point for even greater counter-attack. In fact, today socialism is projecting from all sides. Objectively. Although the working people's movement in Greece and everywhere has retreated. But there are no substantial solutions within this system. And to say one last thing, I'm sorry to abuse. Mrs Gaga said: 'We will plan to get out of the universities doctors' specialities - or train and retrain - that are not coming out now'. You can't plan. You might make some improvements. No design can be made when you have private health with business magnes, with chains of diagnostic centers, even with individual medical equipment. What can you do? The other leaves the university, he goes to France, Germany, that's freedom and democracy in capitalism. How do you plan? It can't be done. Two and a half thousand units of ITH were missing before the pandemic and we're talking now that of the five hundred left by SYRIZA, there were seven hundred? You can't program from the same stuff. In order to plan, there must be no trace of private sector, health and education. And of course, programming, as much as it is in some’s head, to respond to individual or need, will run counter to the logic of profit. I'm investing where I'm going to win. That's the story. Therefore, the pandemic has resolutely uncovered the capitalist system not only in Greece, but worldwide in the most powerful countries that were identified for you with the social state and the demonstration of the political reduction of social inequalities and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pappiga. Mrs Sia Anagnastopoulou is called at Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Get Mr. Loverdos ready from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. According to all the UN's declarations, sustainable development in the midst of four major crises, health, energy, environmental, economic can only be based on the pillars of economic, social, cultural and ecological, and aimed at removing inequalities, extending democracy, removing geographical and social inequalities. So if we take this budget, what will we see and how will we actually see to it that this budget is implemented or that such development is anticipated? And I start from the pandemic, the health crisis that is the huge problem and that undermines or opens roads to see differently the development and future of a society. If so much noise has been created since yesterday, it's not for sterile intercategories, it's for a deep thought about where the limit goes between conservative neoliberal forces and progressive forces. Because the question that has been mistaken since yesterday and which has not even been answered and is a hard political question is whether the Prime Minister was aware of this study. If she knew her, she was struggling with a policy that says "I don't want a luxury"? So there are these questions you will be asked to answer, because you cannot start developing bickering without answering the fundamentals: 'equality of life and death'. There can be no further development unless this is ensured. And we go to the budget: 820 million minus health expenditure in the middle of a pandemic crisis, which this pandemic crisis does not seem to end, at least in 2022 or may end, but will cover too many months. Scientists and experts say so. With this in mind, we have a study of scientists at all worthy, Mr Tsirdas is within the advisory committee, advises, is within the Committee of Experts and puts a few tough indicators. What can we do? Political and real life are hard many times. And in the pandemic it's tough, and we have to answer that. He's putting some very tough indicators. Did the Opposition call abundantly on the theme of MS? I hear a lot of people say how many IDs the New Democracy government put in, and how many did SYRIZA have. Can I just remind you of the story what the ESS was like in 2015? How many people were fired from the ESS? What cataract was he in? So there is an anti-population that in the first phase of the pandemic put back on the government, but setting some limits, saying that this must be done, and that is to deal with the pandemic together. He didn't want the government to face the pandemic with anyone together. Module yelling and yelling. Only this section is if we agree to tell Mr. Mitsotakis, Moses. And there is a study that says there are no Moses in this life, and if we want unity you must listen to everyone else. This study, apart from the dramatic evidence it gives, gives the hard elements - you have to accept - creates a great question for me. Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to you before you were shouting. There's a big question if the Prime Minister met the study. She knew her, she couldn't have known her. And he comes here in the House and is being ironed out by saying "if you have any indications, because I have no indications", while the whole scientific world is shouting and we see that in the fourth wave of pandemic something is not going very well. However, I, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the European Parliament, have to tell you about another cruel thing. I really have been caught in this soul, and it is my responsibility that I have been voted on from a constituency. So it says Mr. Lytras that if you survive the intubation, it seems to depend on where you live. If we are talking about sustainable development, the first crucial of sustainable development is equal access to public goods and there is no greater public good than health. So there, we see that we have unequal access. And not just that. At the cost - so I'm telling you, the reality is tough - the doctors at the University Hospital of Rio, St. Andreas, Mr. Cookios, have come out with an amazing article, and they're yelling at them. Because Patra has two large hospitals, which have been crying, but they have collapsed, ladies and gentlemen. The Tower, Amaliad hospitals and now Egypt. That's what the scholars say here, and that's what we need to do. And that's why we need to talk today. So Mr. Blonde spoke the other day about something called "conspiracy" and deals with all humanity. There's no budget for you. What does that mean? That they remain excluded, marginalized, affected by social strata, geographical areas. The primary health system, family care, all these are critical issues. I ate all the time while I'd have to say too much. We made proposals in education, didn't we? Did you hear anything? Mr. Friend will probably say it. What did you do to that? There is also a political analgesia. When did you establish the minimum import base? Amid hard pandemic, when the French suspended tests for Bakalorea for the first time since the nineteenth century. What are you doing? You're setting up the university police. And Mr Pavlakis comes out today and talks about what is going on in schools when we were yelling - here is our sectoral director - that you cannot shorten sections now at this stage. I learn that in Patras in a number of schools, too, the inseparable command is given if the managers want to become departments and twenty-eight, twenty-nine and thirty people. Are we gonna talk about all this? Are we going to talk, in fact, about what it costs and how it will be dealt with? It's not temporary, ladies and gentlemen. The limit, the red line - I don't know how much we did and how much we didn't do on health or education - but the limit between a progressive and a conservative society - culture, I would say it - you know what it is? Being government in the middle of memoranda and two and a half million uninsured have direct access to the public health system. That's equality. If you haven't secured this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u362	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, the two more minutes you asked for have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u363	I'm closing, Mr. President. I had a lot to say. Unfortunately, I ate my time. It's my fault, I know, Mr. President. I am not going to talk about defensive expenditure because I have heard a lot about it. The budget for culture and sport is 0.6%. I will not talk about the issue of democracy. I'm not going to talk about all these autocratic phenomena that we've lived through. I will say one thing only and I close, Mr President, and thank you for your terrible tolerance. Mr. Voridis yesterday with the indictment that he sees him said that the rule of the Left ended in this country and thankfully. I will say from this Step forward that as long as there are people and as long as there are real needs, her hegemony will never end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, too. Not to repeat the same thing, because I'm being graphic, but while you're late, it's at the expense of colleagues. I invite Mr. Andreas Loverdo from the Change Movement. Next is Mr. Markopoulos from New Democracy, Ms. Skoufa from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr. Kastanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, the reason I am in Step is not pleasant at the moment. He's hideous. In the House there is freedom of speech, there is freedom of criticism, of strong and harsh criticism, of response and of retaliatory action, and there is political confrontation which is often conducted very strongly. What does not exist and must not be allowed to exist is to get away from this political controversy and to reach the limits of anthropophagia or the recommendation to some people to make an anthropophy, because here there are expressions that go beyond the limits of inducement to some furious people outside this House, to carry out inappropriate, unparliamentary and criminal acts, when the designations here go beyond the tolerable limit. I was expecting the Minutes of this House, because I did not believe that there could be phrases and voices and humiliations and reproach for colleagues who have allegedly committed murder. A short time ago, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, in an intense style, addressing colleagues of the government majority and governmental energies, said and, unfortunately, comes from the sound and written text of the Practicals: "You killed people, that is what you did. It's a disgrace to you. You have murdered people." And when both colleagues and the President-in-Office have been encouraged to stop and revoke, he has refrained from withdrawing. He continued to talk about the murders of thousands of people, he was tenacious, and then, once again, he refused to withdraw the appalling description he made that he allegedly had murderers here in thousands of people, received an answer and the process continued. We cannot tolerate such behavior. One can criticise it, think that the government is making mistakes, that it is making major, major, heavy omissions, but that there is a colleague here who, by addressing the majority, says: 'You have murdered thousands of people and I insist and do not withdraw' is what is most disgusting and the most disgraceful of Parliament's authority in this area. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In fact it should not be deleted from the Minutes. It must remain in the Minutes as an example of what we are all unanimously condemning. I also heard from his party that he described it as a misconduct. I'm sorry about this intervention. Honestly, if I didn't see the Minutes and if I didn't listen to the sound, I would prefer dozens of colleagues and thousands of Greek people to have made a mistake in what they heard. They weren't wrong. I use a provision in the Rules of Procedure for particularly serious cases of inappropriate behaviour. I address, on the basis of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure, a point of order to the Member of SYRIZA Kouroublis Panagiotis on anti-parliamentary behaviour. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I don't see him in the Chamber. I would urge the House to approve this reproach and the consequences it has on my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u367	There is no such procedure. There is no such procedure. If Mr. Kurublis was here, he is entitled to speak for a few minutes. The crisis finally belongs to the Bureau of Parliament. I think we've had a horrific attitude. We cannot trigger social automation against political representatives. So I turn to reproach. I am addressing this House. I can see that it was accepted. I turn to the MP Panagiotis Kourublis a reproach for his anti-parliamentary behaviour a few minutes ago. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I do not see him in the Chamber, and I would ask the House to approve this reproach and the consequences it has on my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u368	I would like to speak, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u370	Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u371	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u373	No, Mr. Philly. Not provided. The Parliamentary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u374	I am a parliamentary representative at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u375	If they tell me, I have no objection. All right, I'll give you the floor later. I'm sorry, because he was Mr. Skourlet. Then you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kurubli's delirium is undoubtedly a spot, which characterises him and we will see who else. The President of the House a moment ago did what is self-evident about Parliament's authority. But let me say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this cannot and must not end here. There is a huge moral and political issue concerning Civic Opposition and Mr Tsipras himself. Mr. Tsipras is directly required to deplore his Member who called himself "killer"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u377	Please! What are these things? Let him speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u378	He must immediately deplore the Member who called the Members of the New Democracy the assassins, your colleagues, the representatives of 39% of the Greek people. When we say disapprove him, we mean lead him to come to the Chamber here and repeat in words. Otherwise responsibility requires that he be removed, deleted from your parliamentary group. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Otherwise it turns out in practice that it does not only tolerate, but also directs such unacceptable behaviour. There is a major political issue for Mr. Tsipras. Or Mr Kourublis shall withdraw or be removed from his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u379	The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance of Mr Nikolaos Friends. Please be quiet. The world will draw conclusions. They'll all say what they want. What's this? Now the president said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, we are discussing a very serious issue concerning the death of about twenty thousand of our fellow citizens in and out of the ICU during the pandemic period and we have before us a new spiral of the 'Omicon' mutation. We shouldn't sleep. The situation is difficult and with the exchange of cosmic attacks, insults, there is no solution. We are not covered by what Mr Kurublis said in his anger and anger because he has lost his friends, as he said. Watch out for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u381	That's what it sounds like. The issue is what the President read just now from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u382	So I say, and I am clear that we are making political controversy, which shows the government's political responsibilities for the death of twenty thousand of our fellow citizens. Political controversy, not personalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Philly, with all due respect, you say another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u384	Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u385	Please! It's not like that. You've just been vindicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u386	What I am saying is, on the grounds of knowledge, and is recorded in the Minutes. So I don't want any questions. Secondly, as a parliamentarian in the previous period, I had heard not one, nor two New Democracy MPs calling me a "superior" and calling for my exemplary punishment, that is, life, because I supported the Prespecies Agreement. In fact, Mr Kasapidis, in his country, said a lot of unspeakable things. I do not think 'one of you and one of me'. That is not how democracy goes. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u387	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u388	I also know that the former Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, last February, said that SYRIZA burned a hundred people in Matti. That is not the way democracy goes about with your 'one and one'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u389	Please, Mrs Karamanlis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u390	Beware, however, when these inconveniences are being given by the New Democracy Party, when it wins the elections by betting on political drama and ethnic coup, there is no right for New Democracy today to accuse SYRIZA and no political party here. To be lifted to the height of circumstances. No objections. No, but distractions cheap. The Prime Minister is accountable for the Chiodra report, according to which we see thousands of our fellow citizens died from a poor government policy. That's what we want to talk about and not play "one of you and one of us." We're not oppositioning deaths. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u391	That's what we say, but for murderers we can't hear, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u392	Neither are we, but we are putting the political problem. You are responsible for your ERC dismantling policy, for dissolving the IMMs, for the dead. You're responsible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u393	You'll tell your word of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u395	Here you go, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, Mr Kurublés' statements are unacceptable, they are unparliamentary, they are totally condemnable. And it is really regrettable that he left the Chamber and is not currently involved in the process. But I listened carefully to Mr Philadelphia, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who was placed and took clear distances. In order to be correct with regard to the procedure, Mr President, we must call on Mr Kurublé to come and apologise. To withdraw for those statements. That's the most important thing. And if he does not, then he will go to the Ethics Committee and follow exactly the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, it is good not to use, gentlemen of the government, for compensation for your own failures to do so. In any case, we think that the procedure must be done in this way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u397	Mrs. Giannakopoulos, after what the President of Parliament, Mr. Tsoulas, said, I think the case is another way. So either he comes or he doesn't come, there's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u399	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u400	The fact that you are not covered, dear, Mr Philly, by the statement and what Mr Kurublis said, we also agreed on the first place. It is not enough, however, because it does not cover the democratic legitimacy that we give Parliament. This derailment of the parliamentary speech, this hatred that creates such expressions of the type 'killers' and the message they emigrate to society is very strong and must be condemned more strongly first by your party and then by Parliament's institutions. That's what the class of things says. As for what you said, Mrs Giannakopoulou, I would say that Mr Kourublis was called three times during his speech by the President-in-Office to withdraw and stubbornly refused, saying: "You are murderers." We have never refused to assume the responsibilities of any of our policies. It would also be inappropriate and inappropriate. Each government has a responsibility for government policy. There is another slandering slander, muddling. It is last and terrible populism to call elected MPs by the majority of the Greek people "killers". That is what we ask you to condemn. Clearly it is indeed the responsibility of your leader Mr Tsipras to remove Mr Kurubli from your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, I request the floor on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u402	Yes, Mr. Castanides, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u403	I am not referring, Mr President, to the incident and to the explanations given...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u404	Only in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u405	...but I am referring to the violation of Rule 80 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Article 80 has been relied upon by the President of Parliament for its implementation, but express conditional application of the motion of censure referred to in Article 80 is that the motion of censure may in any case be called within Ethiopia, given five minutes to apologise and then by rise the House may decide to impose reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u406	Wait a minute. I'll explain it to Mr. Castanides. Please, be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u407	Therefore, Mr President, because I believe that we must respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure first of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u408	And I'm in that mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u409	...I think the President should take the initiative to announce to Mr Kurublé the motion of censure, to be summoned in Ethiopia and, if he refuses, then the majority of the House decides. But the formal act of his call must be done before, because otherwise I repeat that there is a question of the application of the Rules of Procedure and we must not give this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u410	Sure. Thank you very much, Mr Castagnides, for clarifying. Let me clarify something, because Mr Bukouros said so, that when I asked Mr Kurublés to withdraw three times and three times his answer was not 'killers', but who will bring him back to me?' That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u411	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u412	Mrs. Fotou, that's what she said. He said: "My friend who will bring him back?" He did not say "killers" when I asked him to withdraw. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u413	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, if anyone wanted to put a framework on the great picture in Europe and in the country, it would certainly end up without a particular effort, in some general contexts. A new political agenda has emerged following a long economic crisis and, of course, a pandemic, but also after the enormous failure of populist, left-wing and right-wing forces in Europe and Greece. There is now a new request. The new demand for anyone who can read the developments correctly makes economic and social transformation very imperative on the one hand and a green and digital transformation on the other. Basic elements of these transformations that are prospective, are not a state, they are social care and stronger state intervention. The same demand is made - I repeat - throughout Europe by differentiations in both the north and the south. In our country, unfortunately, all these requests are more immature, because before the new trends are approached there are problems of public administration, governance, unthinkable bureaucracy, which make it impossible to create a dynamic economy that would be managed by the 2022 budget. We still have a long way to go. The government is right - but right up to a point - to the financial instruments established by the European Union. I am also referring to the Recovery Fund, but also to classics, to the NSRFs and so on, but at the same time there are still chronic diseases that cut the oxygen of the real economy. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you also bet on the abundance of Officer Opposition, which focuses its criticism on unorthodox streets, having forgotten - if it ever remembered - the real challenge of our economy, which is growth for the many, if not all, a green growth that has long been understood as digital and structural, especially for our country. I would like to make a central remark on the government's anger and DNA at this point. In almost all areas, a first-class approach is evident, almost always, which loses the essence of ultimate targeting and usually remains lame, in a pre-formative, communication, supposedly reality. In other words, the final objective is lost, sometimes because the design is incomplete, sometimes because it is unrealistic and yet not at all reformist. I will give some examples. The government has already had to commit itself to an increase in the minimum wage for workers by correcting the mistake made by a few weeks ago to increase it by only 2%. If we are aware of the growth rate of 9.3%, you should boldly move on to policies that respect those who are in great need and are affected by the economic crisis, by pandemic, by energy accuracy and by the price eruption. All this would feed on the growth that concerns the many and not just today that you have just focused on the Recovery Fund, on the development of public finances, even the insurance funds and a few businesses. The development, ladies and gentlemen of the government, primarily requires investment and investments, in turn, the definitive normalisation of the pathogens of the bureaucracy to which I have already referred. The procedures today remain daunty, absurd, contradictory. You are enough to digitize, but it is not enough. Because today's bureaucracy is being voted on. You vote against the requirement for twenty certificates which when the citizen collects and the latter has expired the validity of the first. There are professionals in the area who raise hands. And can there also be a development policy, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when the expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which economic diplomacy has been entrusted for some twenty years, is reduced? That's what you do with the budget. You reduce by 20 million the expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and justify this reduction by saying that responsibilities have been transferred to the Ministry of Development. However, is it not so, because with regard to the expenditure on the Ministry's external services, and four new - right - are being established in Syria, Libya, Senegal and another consulate in China - which has a consulate in Shanghai, in which a man, a diplomat, is working only and is known to expect revenue from these consular services - we can increase structures and reduce the millions that are intended to meet the needs of our external service? We have, ladies and gentlemen, a superficial way of dealing with pandemic. I do not take part at all in the debate before, which I unfortunately followed and I am very sorry that I was present at all this, but I would like to invoke my question of 1 November to the Minister for Health, which has never been answered. I ask him to give us a macabre statistic - perhaps Mr Kastanides remembers that this issue I mentioned in the debate we did a few weeks ago - I had asked for a macabre statistic about where more people die from pandemic, not to be happy or opposed, but to see if there are hospitals where the problem is greater, so that we can see strategies to address them. I didn't get any answers. Today, a report - which I, in terms of its scientific validity, have come, I am unauthorized to judge - and it says, what I feared is a reality. There are regional hospitals, in which deaths are many. Therefore, strategically, there should have been most of the efforts in terms of government policy and planning. Hard? I imagine so, but your job is to deal with the easy and difficult problems. I refer to this study, because I respect Mr Chiodra. I imagine that those who did not respect him for many months and motivated him in their public speech or used him negatively should have invoked him today. But, as far as policy is concerned, there is often no room for constraint and seriousness. Nor can you claim that you are freeing the citizen from the tails, with the digital transformations you make, when it is impossible today for a citizen to contact EKA by phone and while the tails of pensioners remain too large It is not possible for islands such as Syros and Santorini to bear a burden on the one who wants to invest, with a second need for building permits from the archaeological services and, indeed, not those of the islands, but from the central ones in Athens. Late everything. You are not listening to Mr Stournaras who tells you that this observation centre set up by the Bank of Greece must finally be drawn up and it identifies the credit function of the banks. A plan must not be drawn up on how to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, which are, as usual, the backbone of the Greek economy. Mr President, green governance, environmental cohesion, sustainability, sustainable development, smart cities, digital transformation - as I have said - and the daily lives of citizens should be converged with European standards, but that is not the case. They are not designed for Thessaloniki, for Athens and for the rest of Greece, new projects concerning modern societies. And what is needed, unfortunately, is too much. So how can we, a opposition party, say 'yes' to the cornerstone of government policy annually, which is the budget and, in this case, 2022. We have learned very well, those who have a good relationship with politics, that the budget is more than numbered on a page. It's the annual incarnation of values and expectations. I don't think you've made it. That is why we too are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u414	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Dimitris Markopoulos of the New Democracy is called in Vima. I very much ask him not to cross the lines - he is in his DNA - and I ask the Left to be a little cool. Don't live another half-time again. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u415	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I have had the misfortune of being one of the leading players in this attack. I was attacked with the rest of Mr Kurubli's colleagues, and that is why I reacted. You know, this process also requires a sheet. Responsibility and apologies are needed. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Kurublis had his chance. Mr. Castanides, he had it. Three times he refused to apologize - we asked him with intensity. Unfortunately, Mr. Kurublis ran away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Castanides referred to the Rules of Procedure. He didn't get a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u417	I think I'm keeping low tons to make a constructive conversation. At the moment, however, Mr Skourletis' 'bad statement' obviously does not cover us. For much less, New Democracy had its courage and erased its officials. For much less. And if Mr. Kurubli's pain for a friendly person, for his death, was so great, to tell him that there are losses for us, there is a grief. The mourning, you know, has no political shades. He's not left, right or right. He's human. As you should also take into account one more fact for the people who have experienced, just as I do. I had a disease, and my family didn't know if I could get back to my house. My children today and my colleagues' children hear some people call us criminals and murderers. We are not going to allow that. I have said this before, you must decide on the good of the place itself, whether you are a party of Parliament or whether you are a party of reaction and of the sidewalk. And I am obviously not talking about all the SYRIZA executives, many of whom I honor. But what they heard here was a pavement, perhaps worse than the pavement. There is a logic 'black crows with fucking nails'. A policy of liquefying, is it possible to fit into the Greek Parliament at the moment? Agitated and will we see again? Traders of pain and populists don't fit in the Greek Parliament. And I repeat, victims of this pandemic have all the wings of the House. We ask, we demand, we demand respect. I will say something else because this debate has begun. So tell us, if you are tired of public health, why didn't you vote with us on compulsory health vaccinations? Why was your Chief talking about unleashing the vaccines? Why, recently, a few days ago, did you refuse interventions for those parents who do not want to send their children to school? Tell us. I do not want to go on with this unpleasant debate, but personally I too - because there was a personal attack by Mr Kurubli - I expect a public apology. And I no longer expect it from Mr Kurubli, who has refused and denied it many times. I'm waiting for her from your Chief. If you want to write to that arc, which wants the real deal, the health treatment of this crisis, you have to do it at the highest level. We expect Mr. Tsipras to come and condemn your Member. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I repeat and remind you that we are that party, which even a few days ago, got a Member of Parliament out of line when we were judging it out of line. So you cannot do anything less than the New Democracy did. It is necessary and burdened by this situation, ladies and gentlemen, to say the same thing. I'll go through the budget. The budget is always in the form, the component of the vote and the government's course. But you know that vote we have not only made it and we will not do it in the next few days on Saturday. It has been made by all the great international multinational players, the people who are begging the whole planet to bring investment. "AMAZON", did it by "MICROSOT", did it by "PFIZER". They have made it a number of companies, such as 'VOLKSWAGEN'. So this vote of confidence has come precisely because the information we give to this budget is true. Greece has an economic policy that is no longer a problem. Do you know what a very big difference is, ours with you? You created a crisis. We manage a crisis, which we have not created and managed with sufficient capacity. Do you know how important growth is to run with 6.9%? Do you remember the previous years when we were talking about a growth of 0.5% and celebrating? Do you know how important it is to have a growth rate of 4.52% in 2022? Do you know what is important for the people's layers, for the people's household, for our young man, who finally has a future ahead of sight, to talk about unemployment at 13% and declining over three units from September last year? So we're not like you. We are not devastated by a programme and a plan and a strategy of the middle class. We're the power to bring this up. The economy, whether we want it or not, is not the major problem. I will not talk about a series of tax reliefs and interventions in favour of young people. We young people don't want them on the streets, working on them to break them and shout. We want to find them the first sign to get into the labour market. We're the power of the middle class. We're the same middle class. We are the ones with coordinate policies that move forward. Aren't you ashamed to talk about PPC, you who went bankrupt and handed it over to us with EUR 900 million of debts? Are you talking about pensions for cutting them? What about the primary surpluses you charged to the Greek government? We see that with the negotiation of Mr.Mitsotakis personally in the pandemic, our country has won a great victory with the removal of them. And there's one of the bets of the future all this. Lies, destructive, misery. You're miserable and extremists. Outraged and introverted. We're the accelerator. You are the brake of the economy. You're inconvenienced by normality. You have a problem with that. Even in your examination, I saw colleagues who were completely ignorant of how the markets work. It's incomprehensible. You've ruled four and a half years. They were reminiscing their MPs - here's the "VOX POP" company, which was revealed yesterday by the popular ghost company. And you know why they praised her? Because he had zero employees. The left cut off for the worker, the worker, the employee praised a company because it had zero employees. That's their moral decay! [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] We're the country of the big infrastructure. The country is currently fighting with pandemic, ladies and gentlemen. We'll make it. You want, you don't want, we'll get out of the crisis. I hope we will soon get out of another crisis, more long than the pandemic, with historical roots in the past, that, I would say, pandemic of unbearable populism that governs you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, too. Ms Skoufa has the floor now from SYRIZA and then Vice-President Athanasios from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. Dear and dear colleagues, I shall begin with the reason for our meeting today, which is the budget, which is based on two completely deadly forecasts. First of all, however, it does not satisfy and goes against the popular needs and social demands of the large majority. What are these dead things? First of all, in the rapporteur's own report on the budget page forty-two, it is stated that 2022 will be a year of gradual return in normal health conditions. You have not submitted to us until now, Mr Mitsotakis, on what elements you are relying on in this totally sanitary foul that we will be done with the pandemic in 2022, when Mr Mitsotakis at the summit talks about high precarious health care due to the mutation of little ones. Haven't you ever heard of sanitaries warning you many times that unless early measures are taken to strengthen the public health system at all levels, will we have twenty-five thousand dead to Easter? Does not it teach you anything about the fact that they have already been lost to our twenty-thousand fellow citizens? Does it not teach you anything about the fact that for many days we were at the top of the Western European countries, with regard to deaths per million? Now stop artificially emitting the communication image of 'all is going well' by the Godsalt Moses. Second-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven. The report itself again tells us that the current inflationary pressures will be temporary. This contrasts entirely with what the State Budget Office says in the House, which shows what logic dictates and what we take as feedback from the living economy and the market. What's that? That there are significant uncertainties arising from the alarming development of the pandemic, the possible permanent losses of the recession, the ability of taxpayers to meet their obligations and the possibility of switching monetary policy due to inflationary pressures. What are you doing for all this, for all the permanent, based on the existing elements, structural disasters in the Greek economy and Greek production? Close the cannons, remove. It is zero in the 2022 budget - I say this to all citizens, all shopkeepers, all traders, all farmers and farmers - when it comes to the budget costs of dealing with the pandemic in 2022. You have the courage to tell us that once the economy opens and moves, that open shops mean shops that make cigarettes and make profits. But is that really so? I'll pass you insightly to the main commercial street of Katerina, on the main pedestrian road. All merchants, all small and medium-sized businessmen, small and medium-sized hoteliers and room rental owners are struggling, because they know very well that four out of ten small and medium-sized enterprises are faced with the range of bankruptcy, are faced with bundles. Four out of ten small and medium-sized enterprises! We've told you many times and suggested. A haircut of up to 60% of the coronary and a payoff of the balance in a hundred twenty doses is required. You are also deaf to the question put to you by the Greek people, small and medium-sized businessmen and households is why. Nor do you explain why you have rushed to commit to the European Union for such a sharp, rapid, barbaric fiscal adjustment for the years 2022 and 2023, of the order of 9%. The medium-term and the present budget have an austerity of 9.7 billion. 9.7 billion will be lost from 90% of entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, households and workers. You still dare in this budget with such conditions of degrading economic and health of society to budget revenues from indirect taxes and VAT amounting to 2.3 billion in 2022. That's the defence, Mr. Marcopoulou, of the middle class! Increasing revenues for 2022 2.3 billion. I will not talk extensively about farmers and farmers who have been faced for a long time with the huge spectrum of accuracy in the current, fertilisers, raw materials, feed. Why do you not block the wave of accuracy, do you not heal the social wounds, adopting the proposal for a law that we have tabled to you? Why have you rejected the reduction of excise duty on all fuels? I would like to close, Mr President, by saying that, although you have invented, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, even though our colleague, Mr Kurublé, has been very emotionally charged and therefore inappropriate, you will not be able to hide that, because of oligarchy and because of your neoliberal obsession, we have twenty thousand deaths of our fellow citizens, which, based on their study, etc. Ciodra and Lytra 38.5% of these deaths could have been avoided. 38.5% of our fellow citizens died unfairly because you did not support the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u420	Mrs. Scouffa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u421	Thank you for your tolerance. Finally, Mr Mitsotakis should be telling us very well, not falsely, if he knew about the investigation. If she knew her and she's lying, she's dangerous. If he did not know her, which we very much question, he is dangerous again for the whole of the Greek society, for the health of all of us, for the whole of entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u422	Thank you. As far as time is concerned, don't thank for the tolerance, because I don't have any tools to stop someone from here. The second Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios, has the floor. Then the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Kerameos follows. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course Mr Kurubli's behaviour is sad, and of course he is also insulting the prestige but also the aesthetics of the House. I do not want to talk about what has been said in the Rules of Procedure. I would just remind you that there are not only the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House but also the Code of Parliamentary Ethics, and so I do not want to analyse it that, as the President of this House claimed, this matter is completely covered. But it's not the present. Now on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, the saying for Caesar's wife is what we all know. In politics, of course, the reverse also applies sometimes. When you work hard, this must be understood by your orders, that is by the Greek people, and that's why you have to make an account of your work. It is easy sometimes, in the vortex of topicality and politics and sometimes of micropolitical confrontation, to lose the essence. And what's the point? We're not here to fight each other overnight. The government's most important task is to solve problems of the Greek people, small and large, and to see to it that it plans solutions so as not to create new ones. Our government does that. That's her job. The debate in plenary on the budget gives us the opportunity to come to Parliament and present our work as a whole and thus to understand who the people are here to work for their own interests and who is here to say big words, to make good statements and to promise everyone everything. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a political cliché to say that the rulings in question are coming to unite and not to divide the people. However, it is now clear that for Mr Mitsotakis there has been no further compass for the country's governance over the last two years. The Government of New Democracy preferred to be written on the front of logic and chose not to face up to the challenges with obsolete ideological housing. He invested in works and not in words and divisive pseudo - revolutionary rhetoric. The government is working hard for all Greeks and for this reason its main political choices on various issues, such as the crisis of Evros, the treatment of pandemic, the management of immigration, the reforms in education and the strengthening of the security of the Greeks are welcomed by percentages of the citizens far greater than its electoral rate and even by a very large part of the voters of other parties, with which the New Democracy has no ideological affinity. He convinces the Greeks that he is dealing with issues that have been pouring for many years. Citizens slowly see, through the digital revolution that is taking place, that the state can change and aim primarily at their service. They see investments and works stuck for years, Greek, North Axis of Crete, the metro of Thessaloniki, the new metro line of Athens, the Tsiknia dam in Lesvos, the dream and lust of three generations, the renovation of Attica in Lemnos, to move forward and the first investments from international colostrums, such as "MICROSOFT", "PFIZER", "AMAZON", which create sustainable and quality jobs. Our insistence on the concept of "excellence" by the opposition is often hated, but the Greeks are pleased to see that our country's international image has changed. From Uragua Greece becomes a pioneer in a number of issues. It is no coincidence that our country is being positively evaluated in promoting reforms by the European Union, the OECD and the World Bank, and it is neither accidental that it has submitted to the first countries the use of the Recovery Fund and has received praise. Nor is it accidental that the European Certificate of Vaccination is based on a Greek initiative. At the same time, the country's diplomatic position is being strengthened by building regional alliances and strong relations with traditional major powers. Our country makes it clear that it always seeks peace and understanding and that it wishes to have only friends and proves it by signing cooperation agreements with all the peace states in the region. At the same time, it abandons the dreadful consequences of the past, acts forcefully when it is provoked and it does not tolerate threats or doubt its rights, as the Prime Minister has made clear. All of this explains how our government and while faced with unprecedented challenges, Evros' crisis, pandemic, excitement of immigration, is now more popular than when it was elected. But that won't take place for relaxation or arrogance. With humility, devotion and even harder work at the end of its term, this government will have changed the country radically. I am going to mention only two issues over time. The first concerns VAT rates on our islands. The European Union, by Directive 2006/112 of the European Parliament, allows Greece to apply lower rates of VAT to our islands up to 30%. This arrangement was introduced as a compensatory measure, due to the territorial discontinuance of the possibility of achieving economies of scale and the increased cost of transporting goods, but also to enhance competitiveness and not to favour or favour the islands, but to require the constitutional principle of islandity. Troika representatives twice, in 2013 and 2014, have insisted on abolishing the reduced rates of VAT on our islands, which, of course, was not accepted by our Government at the time of the New Democracy. The abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the Aegean islands took place by the government of SYRIZA in 2015, to remember why we forget easily. L.4334/2015 predicted the gradual abolition of specific reduced rates on the islands from 1-10-2015. In fact, there was a categorisation of islands, developed, less developed and remote, and so laws 4336/2015, 4446/2016, 4509/2017 and 4576/2018 respectively were passed. These are the laws of the government of SYRIZA, which abolished the reduced rates of VAT by 30% on the Aegean islands, and the Greek people know that. But was there, despite the above unfavourable arrangements in SYRIZA, the possibility of maintaining reduced rates of VAT on our islands? The answer is yes, since 2018. I am reading to you what Commissioner Moscovisi supported on 12 April 2018. I would point out that Article 120 of Council Directive 2006/112 of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax still allows Greece to apply rates of up to 30% lower than the corresponding rates applied to mainland Greece in specific geographical areas. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the ECOFIN agreement, where the Minister for Finance, Mr Stakoras, representing the Greek Government, participated, not only is the way to return them, but, in essence, this unanimous decision incorporates, for the first time, in a European legal text, main and permanent Greek demands, which are the choices of our Government. Since 2025 we will have the possibility of applying reduced or even zero rates of VAT in order to support, firstly, sensitive national areas such as the Aegean islands, secondly, social groups, such as disabled people and farmers, thirdly, sectors that have suffered overtax in previous years, such as the real estate market. I shall say a few words - and I shall close, Mr President - on the subject of examination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u424	Soon, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u425	Yes, Mr President, in a minute or so. I often hear here, in Parliament, that the first issue, the first issue is a political one or that the second issue wants a political approach. However, issues relating to the implementation of our Constitution, which are the main mechanism for protecting the legal order and therefore the functioning of this House, are primarily legal issues, which require a legal approach. Thus, as such, with a correct interpretation and application of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and their political approach becomes safer and the functioning of the House becomes more effective. I am making this introduction to refer to the committee of inquiry which is already working. No matter what the scientific opinion of anyone is, in establishing the minority's right to seek the establishment of committees of inquiry, the following issues should be understood. Firstly, the setting-up of committees of inquiry is now a right of minority vote, in accordance with Rule 68 of the Constitution and with Rule 114 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Secondly, the Committees of Inquiry are set up by the President of Parliament according to the power of the parliamentary groups. It's a combination of Articles 29.5, 31.5 and 144.5 of the BBC. Thirdly, the composition of the committees: we therefore have how they are set up, how they are formed, how they are composed. That is to say, which Members are to be appointed by the Presidents of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, and in the light of the fact that Articles 145, 146, 147 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament have not been amended, all the committees of inquiry shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Committee of Inquiry, in accordance with the principle of declared, including the persons to be called as witnesses. If the purpose of the constitutional legislature was to decide on what acts of inquiry, so which witnesses would be called for consideration, we would be led by the minority to rule out witnesses that the majority would propose, who would not be pleasurable to her. Such interpretation would bring to light the functioning of the majority and the principle of the declared, i.e. the foundations of the parliamentary system. Ladies and gentlemen, myths are not saved with communal terrain, they just collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u426	It was solidarity between the Vice Presidents, wasn't it? It's understood. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Kerameos has the floor and immediately after that he is Mr. Kastanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting the budget for the year 2022, for the second year in the middle of an ongoing unprecedented health crisis, which in many ways has changed the way we are learning, which we are working, that we are working together, has changed our everyday lives, a budget that has a strong positive mark and on the course of the sizes of the Greek economy and on the development of the standard of living and the improvement of the quality of life for every Greek woman. Its implementation will be a decisive step towards sustainable development, social cohesion, security and stability, the broadening of the opportunities and opportunities for each of our fellow citizens. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is actively involved in the great government effort. Education changes in practice from kindergarten to university, vocational education and training and lifelong learning. It offers our children modern knowledge and skills to help make their dreams. It offers our teachers a more flexible, more attractive environment, in which their role is upgraded and their choices multiply. It offers society better education structures that meet today's needs and meet its demands tomorrow. It offers the country and the world creative, extroverting, active citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this year, despite the pandemic and the international financial uncertainty that inevitably entails, in spite of the increased retirements of teachers, we have achieved excellent cooperation with the financial staff, which I would like to thank very much for the excellent cooperation, we have managed to meet the additional needs and increase the funds for education, considering one of the most efficient investments in our country. So I am pleased to announce the increase for another year of the state budget for education by EUR 236 million, a figure of 4.2%. Some basic economic figures for 2022 are the following: Increase in the state budget for education by EUR 236 million, the total of the Public Investment Programme amounts to EUR 950 million. From the Recovery and Resilience Fund we have ensured the financing of flagship actions, twenty-one in total, a total budget of over 1.2 billion euros. On the ESDP, the absorption of funds increased by 62.6%, ladies and gentlemen. Since June 2019, there has been an increase of 62.6% in the absorption of the ESDP funds. This is an increase of EUR 317 million in less than two and a half years. By analyzing funding for individual levels of education and fields of interest, first of all, in primary, secondary and special education, for example, we are supporting with financial resources, as well as other financial instruments, school infrastructure, actions such as English in kindergartens, skill workshops, the strengthening teaching of special courses, which are considered in the Greek examinations, the new curriculum programs we presented a few days ago with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the upgrading of music education in music schools, the training of teachers, the integration of refugees and Roma children into the educational system. We support school and university sport, we support the grant of the Institute for Education Policy. In the context of the digital transformation of education, through the Recovery and Resilience Fund, we launch interactive tables in primary and secondary schools, digital educational material for the hundreds of sixty new curricula, accessible to all and transforming conventional programmes into open code, interactive digital environments accessible to all, with prediction and artificial intelligence, digital tools to support disabled students, robotic equipment in our schools, digital services for schools and academic institutions, data and services interoperability. In vocational education, training and lifelong learning, following on from the law that we passed last December on the upgrading of vocational education and training, we actually upgrade it as an equal option for our young people. I would remind you that in the last ICU, the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the Prime Minister from the ICU's step in Thessaloniki announced for the first time the extension of the housing allowance to students and public IEC students - and this is already shown in the 2022 budget - with an increase in the housing allowance of EUR 7 million, including for the first time public IEK students. We are forming training guides at the IEK. We are strengthening the practice of training in the IEKs. We are increasing the EUR 2 million grant for expenditure on logistical equipment for second-rate schools. Through the Recovery and Resilience Fund, as well as through the NSRF, we provide overall support for vocational education and training and for the provision of laboratory and technological equipment for professional schools, professional schools standards, public IEC, thematics and experimental IEK, for the digitisation of EEAP, for the digitisation of vocational education and training material and for the creation of a platform for vocational education and training. In tertiary education, we are increasing the regular university grants. I have to tell you that today, a further regular grant has been signed for our universities of EUR 20 million, for their operating costs and also for the implementation of safety and security measures, safety plans, controlled entry systems and all of this, ladies and gentlemen, broken down on objective criteria, just as we committed ourselves. It is no longer a matter, as it was in the previous government, of the arbitrary crisis of each Minister. So they're objective criteria. Here too, I would remind you that evaluation criteria have been in place since next financial year. So part of the funding of our universities will be a function of their evaluation. Also, today, four hundred new membership posts were signed in our universities, four hundred posts for teachers in our universities. We finance upgrading of AEI infrastructure and equipment and a series of actions undertaken by the AEIs of the country, including the Athens Academy and the University Hospitals, with particular emphasis on research and extroversion. We support through NSRF actions for entrepreneurship, innovation and maturation to exploit the research activity and the new products and services developed in the ICMs. Through the Recovery and Resilience Fund, we promote, among other things, industrial doctoral, funding university synergy actions with the private sector, digitisation and digital transformation of the network of National Librarys and General Archives of the State, increase the grant of State Grants. More funds for scholarships for the State Scholarship Foundation. Fourthly, with regard to the digital transformation of education, again within the framework of the Recovery Fund, we have already implemented the 'Digital Care' action of EUR 112 million, ensuring that children and young people from four to twenty-four years old a 200 euro coupon for the purchase of digital equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, over five hundred thousand young people have taken advantage of this possibility, so that everyone can be actively involved in this digital transformation of education and we are moving towards the digital transformation of the integrated information system of education, the training of teachers in digital knowledge and skills. Finally, Mr President, a special reference to the use of resources from the ESRB. As I said before, after much effort and systematic planning we have managed to increase the absorption of the NRP by 62.6%. The comparison shall be made with June 2019. But that's not enough. We proceeded with the implementation of our reforms and planned and proceeded with the approval of the funding of a number of new projects at all levels, which exceed EUR 496 million. These projects do not include projects whose duration and funding we have extended earlier projects, which we have continued to do. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Integration of additional projects increased by EUR 612 million, while the integration of the EIF projects in the field of education, which have been carried out over the last two and a half years, exceeds EUR 589 million. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude the summary of the budget of 2022 for education, I would like to thank very much the entire educational community, the officials and employees of the Ministry of Education, the State Secretarys, Angelos Syrgos, Zetta Makrei, the Secretary-General for their response in adverse circumstances often in difficult and demanding work in 2021. And of course I would like to express my warmest thanks and thanks to all the financial staff, for their extremely hard work in genuinely unfavourable conditions and in an environment that is very demanding. This year's budget for education, reinforced financially and structured in the philosophy of best performance and transparency in information, aims at making better use of the resources and ultimately at the same goal as the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis personally, in the overall upgrade of our educational system, so that our children can obtain more and better supplies so that our children can achieve their goals so that our children can be happy. We invest in our education. We invest in the present and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u429	I would also like to speak later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u430	Wait a minute, because there's a misunderstanding. Since this morning, we have said that, under the Rules of Procedure of the House, the parliamentary representatives have the possibility of three speeches, one four-minute and two-thirds. This applies to the whole. It does not mean that, if we change the parliamentary representative, the other has a four-minute and two-minute speeches. I'll give you the floor, but for a little while I imagine, won't I? Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. I didn't hear any word to say about dealing with the school pandemic. On the basis of the EGE's data, from 1 November to today we have an outbreak of the school pandemic, about eighty thousand cases. The fact that schools do not close is that 50 plus 1% of schools have to do with the peculiar clause. Schools shouldn't be closed. In front of us we have an outburst with the pandemic of 'Omicon'. We must take measures which need to be taken now and not after the pandemic of 'Omicon' has evolved. I didn't hear anything from the Minister. On the contrary, he insists that he well complicated sections, that is, he increased the number of children in each section. Secondly, he didn't tell us anything about the issue of traceability, how the disease is transmitted from school to the community and from the community to school, how many elderly people got stuck by children and how many children got stuck by elderly people, how many people got into ICU and how many came from the process. These are critical questions for health surveillance, public health issues. In none of this, we have evidence. It's not just evidence of the Ministry of Health. We have a department that has to have evidence, and it doesn't give us, it doesn't tell us. In order not to be much-needed, we have repeatedly called for a debate to be held in the House's Committee on Culture on the subject of the pandemic in schools. We have proposals for the sanitary, but also for the educational place. Children cannot be exterminated in this pandemic, the school can be automatically transformed into an examination centre, children being driven from schools in essence, when the battle that teachers give - we learn it every day - is to relearn the student's status as a student, to reoperate the school. We cannot treat teachers as rivals, as the Ministry does, by creating a great inconvenience to education, with the infamous evaluation and other measures. So it's a truce to these measures. To discuss the peculiarity of the pandemic in schools. To talk to the experts who come and talk to the Committee on Morphic Affairs. I've heard a lot of evidence about a lot of money we have for education. But are we kidding? The money is about what last year's needs are much larger. What we see is a magical picture, money, but problems that are not solved by money. There's a school downgrade. I think that the debate on economics is a critical debate and cannot be conducted in terms of public relations and propaganda. Thirdly, 'CISCO'. The Commission, the Independent Personal Data Authority, constitutionally established and intergrouped appointed by the Parliament, with the President of the Council of State, Mr Menudakos, has finally decided that the "CISCO", with which the Ministry took advantage of distance learning, had holes at the expense of the personal data of millions of children, parents and teachers. And he blames the Ministry, he condemns the Ministry in fact, for not following the instructions that the beginning has given for a year. He left the system defenseless, defenselessly defending our children from intercepting their personal data. The Minister, instead of complying, took out the language and said there was a court. Look out! He took language out to the Independent Privacy Authority. Instead of agreeing and saying yes, I'll take measures at least late, he said there are the courts. Will Mrs. Keramea go to the Council of State against the principle? I want to hear an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u432	You'll have to finish it, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u433	I shall conclude, Mr President. Will it comply with the Constitutional Data Protection Authority? Last item. We have heard a lot of information about the universities. Just a reminder. Since August 2020 and August 2021, which have been hundreds of university pensions, there has been no single intake. The law provided - it is SYRIZA's law - that for a withdrawal, there is an intake. For two years no recruitment, no appointment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u434	All right, all right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u435	I shall conclude, Mr President. It comes now and says four hundred, but not to replace those who have left, but to get into a curious process, on the basis of which schools and universities will be degraded on the basis of the criteria established by the government. So this is a trap for the universities. And it does not finance them and effectively degrades critical functions related to credits and infrastructure and will judge them as insufficient for this reason, so that they are not sent by teachers. And I'm coming to the administrative staff. It's a big problem at the universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u436	However, in your speech, Mr Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u437	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u438	Finish, finish, but don't finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u439	I'll be right over. With regard to the 20 million he said - they are new communications - they are 10 million for operating expenses and 10 million to buy safety monitoring machinery at universities. Is that what the university needs? Are these the needs? I am learning today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the Rector's Session sends SOS on economic narrowlines for the evacuation of universities. Mrs. Kerameau says we have money to buy surveillance cameras. Well done, great cosmic in universities!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u440	Thank you. Mrs. Giannakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u441	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, we are also in the process of developing the 'Omicon' mutation at a very critical point, where even countries that have been much better than us in dealing with pandemic, as new data are now being created, are taking exceptional measures, such as the United Kingdom, for example. I'd like to ask you a question. That is why I just need a minute, Mr President. I would like to ask you if that is what concerns you at all in the field of education. Because scientists already come out and say that new measures need to be taken. So something's gonna change? That is the question I am addressing, Minister. We haven't heard that yet, at least on your side. Obviously, we also obviously want open schools and obviously want them, and you know very well that we are already calling for them from the first moment of the pandemic, smaller sections and more resources for more teachers. Speaking of which, Minister, if you really wanted to, you could have done so for two years. So, as it seems gradually to you that there will also develop possible, careless, but possibly the 'Omicon' mutation will prevail, do you have a plan, do you have a plan A, plan B, and what measures are you going to implement? Because you have told us all very well, you have presented your draft budget, very nicely all of this, but the big question is how you will deal with the new data and how you will not be running behind the developments once again, as you have so far been used to doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u442	Is there another parliamentary representative who wants to speak? You don't? Okay. Madam Minister, you have the floor. I don't take time, but I hope you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u443	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your position. Mr Philie, I understand that your position is bad, when the government comes and presents a pandemic increase in the budget for education by EUR 236 million, it presents a package of more than EUR 1.2 billion for investment in education, presents sixteen thousand two-two appointments, and the first ones in education after twelve years! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I understand, Mr Philly, that your position is bad, and that is why I understand that you want to change your agenda, go somewhere else. So let's go to the pandemic, even though this debate has nothing to do with it, because we're talking about specific budget figures. But I come to the pandemic. Do you remember what you were saying in September? That the schools will open up and that in ten days' time they'll close again, that it'll be a disaster, that one will stick with the other. So today, three months after the opening of the schools, what did Mrs Papaevangelou announced two hours ago? Reduction of school cases by over two thousand. It was announced two hours ago. What's that for? Two factors. First of all, the excellent respect of measures by our teachers, from the students, from the parents, from the whole educational community. Secondly, too much control. Mr. Philly, our government and the Prime Minister personally made a difficult decision. He decided to invest too much money in the pandemic and in the immunization of schools. The prediction that in case of a case there are seven tests per week, one every day, all for free, half of the laboratory and half of the self - and all of this in addition to the two self test carried out throughout the school population, obviously other than the vaccinated - led, all of these measures, to a reduction in the incidence of cases in schools. Are we being reassured? Of course not! Of course we are in a difficult situation, but we invest a lot of money and to protect individual and public health, but also to keep our schools open, because both are for us very important. A few days ago, I was at the Education Council of the European Union and when I described the protocol, we were the only country to carry out such tests, so many tests. Seven tests a week! There was no other country doing so many tests. And three months later, on average, we have ten to fifteen parts a day at over eighty-five thousand, which are closed. So this success is credited to our teachers, credited to our students. Let's stand by them, Mr. Friend. Let us not oppose the opposition. If I understand correctly, you referred to what has not happened, as you say, not even one in university. Did I hear all right? Did I hear well when the positions of the IPA members that we have given are more than the departures since 2019? I will present all this in detail at the Rectors' Conference. More Members' positions than departures. I will conclude, Mr President, with this: Mr Philie, I have listened with great interest to your position on the Privacy Authority. I admit I can't follow your resignation. On the one hand, you praise the independent authorities and on the other Mr Polakis is asking for their abolition. Eventually, what of both of you ambassadors? What are you two ambassadors for, Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u444	What are you administering?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u445	We, Mr Philly, will respond in detail to one or two points, as we have been doing all this time. And I'll close with this. A few days ago, there was an investigation into how to deal with the pandemic. There were two tables on how ready each OECD country was to meet a pandemic in education and how it finally responded. Our country was a 20th second in the twenty-nine in preparation. Why? Because in the digital ratio nothing has happened, Mr Philly, in your day. There was nothing! When the pandemic exploded, the public system could raise five hundred students at the same time as 1.5 million. So we were a twenty-second country. How was Greece finally judged on the treatment of pandemic in education? Seventh, Mr. Friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Castanides has the floor from the Change Movement. After Mr. Kastanidis, Mrs. Agerinopoulou will speak from New Democracy and will be followed by Mr. Kotsiras, State Secretary for Justice. Then will Mr Mamoulakis, Mr Manolakou, Mrs Papanatsiou, Mr Pascalides, Mr Amanatidis from SYRIZA - I would clarify why there is also Mr Amanatidis from New Democracy - the Deputy Prime Minister of the Prime Minister, Mr Economou, Mrs Dunia, and the circle with Mr Friend is closed. Today we're going to make the twelfth cycle. The last speaker on the twelfth cycle is Mr Arachovitis. And the ministers are still Mr. Augerakis and Mr. Stylianides. Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, fanaticism has always harmed the country and the Greek Parliament. This fanatical impulse led SYRIZA's colleague to use unjustified designations against the government majority. But neither the President of Parliament nor the Bureau of Parliament nor the majority to make a motion of censure against Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure. And I recommend temper for everyone, because it doesn't matter that Mr. Avedelas before the motion of censure had asked Mr. Kurublé to withdraw. Rule 80 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure expressly states: 'When the motion of censure is formulated, the motion of censure must be called for an apologies as the reproach for five minutes'. Now, Mr President, I would like to comment on a more general government's willingness to make financial results, the implementation of the 2021 budget, the management of the pandemic and the prospects that are being opened before us. It is a joyous mood, you will see it beforehand and from what the Minister for Education has said. The Government notes that during the pandemic period it has taken measures to support 43 billion euros either in the form of direct grants or in the form of guarantees or loans. That is exactly what I have to say to you. It is EUR 43.5 billion in government support measures. But there is a huge question, Mr Minister of Finance. From the measurement of data and according to the Commission's autumn forecasts, there is a painful conclusion on your government. Although this is one of the largest budget extensions in Europe, the EUR 43.3 billion programme, the results are poor, compared with fifteen other countries in the European Union, which have spent much less money and have managed to recover total losses in 2021. You expect to have full recovery of losses within 2022, while coverage of losses within 2021 will be only 69.5% compared to 2019. Is that what you're rejoicing for? What has happened to other European Union countries have spent much less money, but have they managed to recover within 2021, that is to say, to cover losses, but the Greek Government, despite budgetary expansion, only covers 69.5% of the losses? Secondly, the debate prior to the Tsiodra - Lytra report was also a debate on the budget. Because I was listening to the New Democracy colleagues calling for a reintroduction of the budget debate. I assume that this justified claim is based on a thorough study of the size of the budget and its forecasts. What does the Tsiodra-Lytra report say? The report says very simply, without designations, that the number of deceased persons is related to the strengths and vulnerabilities of the National Health System. The rest are regional issues, for example if the death rate is 35% or 40%, depending on whether it was a regional hospital or a hospital in Athens. The number of deaths is therefore linked to the vulnerability of the ERC. And when one of the two authors asks whether this means that the government has not strengthened the National Health System, avoids the answer and says: "I do not want to engage in a political debate. Let others judge this." If he wanted to say that the government helped the ESS decisively, he would say so. So, elegantly, there is also a serious question from the point of view of researchers - the authors of the study - that is, that the National Health System was not resolutely supported. And now, take note, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the Council of Ministers for Social Affairs, Health and Employment in its decision of 7 December states that 'it is necessary for continuous strategic investment in health systems in order to gain greater durability'. What is the government doing in the 2022 budget? It reduces health expenditure by EUR 600 million compared to 2021. At the same time, when - I suppose - the Minister responsible supports the decision of the Social Affairs, Health and Employment Council at the same time reduces expenditure on health by EUR 600 million in the budget. Five billion, seventy-seven million euros in 2021, four hundred and fifty-seven million in 2022. I also hear the Minister of Finance say, with a rejoicing attitude, "we have decided to increase the minimum wage since the beginning of 2022...". This is a 'dramatic' increase in favour of workers, '... and we will do it a second time'. Consider exactly what the government does if it's not a comedy. As you know, the government, a few months ago, passed the law by which it introduced, among other things, reforms and the individual contract of employment with individual negotiation. Individual contract of employment means a weakening of part of the negotiators, i.e. the worker. On 6 and 7 December, therefore, once again the Council of Ministers for Employment, Social Affairs and Health decides to support workers' incomes and improve working conditions. The Council of Ministers observes that in those countries that had broad coverage of the collective bargaining regime, they had a smaller number of poorly paid workers. Those countries with low collective bargaining coverage had a large number of poorly paid workers. And the Council concludes that 'the Ministers agreed that countries should promote the strengthening of the social partners' capacity to participate in collective negotiations'. I assume that Mr Hatzidakis, in attendance, supported the text, but at the same time, I must assume that he is making himself self-criticistic about the measure of his Government to introduce the status of individual negotiations into employment contracts a few months ago. That is why I said before that if it is not a comedy, then I will take it as a pretext for changing government policy on the better. But I don't have that hope, I have to tell you. And I close, Mr President, with a phrase, even though I have more to say. The European Council of Finance Policy has already proposed since last year -- it is a battle I have been fighting for months - to change the status of economic governance of the European Union. This year, in November, it comes back with an annual report and restores the idea of the European Union's permanent capacity to make public investment, because there is not enough space for productive private investment. By proposing an increase in public investment, through a special incentive scheme, it indicates two main areas of action: transnational investment between the countries of the European Union and investment on the front of the green economy. We will see whether the European Commission and the Council will decide on this after a year. What's the government doing? It reduces the Public Investment Programme for the second consecutive year. In 2021 the expenditure of the Public Investment Programme was 4.7% of GDP, while 2022 will be 4.2% of GDP. I would say that it is absolutely justified that the New Democracy is part of and followed by European policies, and I would also add, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the Step, that it is absolutely justifiable for its Ministers to be willing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u448	Thank you. I can do nothing but ask all Members to make an effort to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u450	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u451	I would like to say a little bit about the last intervention that has taken place, which has been very substantial. And I'm telling you, honestly. That's dialogue. First of all, we now agree that measures are a lot. It's EUR 43.3 billion. So, in the punctualities of other parties that say that we did not take many measures or that they were not enough, we agree a lot in this Chamber, not just the government majority, that the measures are enough. The question, therefore, is whether it is effective. So there, Mr Colleague, you have made a proper speech, but not a full one. You said that in the European Commission's autumn forecasts Greece does not cover all losses as many other countries cover them. But you have not seen the countries of the South. We have the best performance among all the countries of the South. And I have the evidence in front of me: Spain will be backwards. France will be back. Portugal will be back. Malta will be back. Italy will be back. It is precisely because there is a lot of dependence on tourism that these countries could not overcome the 2020 loss. But we have the best performance - and we are probably conservative as the Ministry of Finance, but let us look at the balance sheet - between all the countries of the South. And that is the first point. Secondly, you know, we emphasised somewhere else. We have given many resources to the maintenance of jobs. I am tabling a table showing that the measures we have taken have taken a place, because we have had the greatest decline in unemployment in Europe. So we had two and a half percentage points, putting in and the figures of October 2021. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, we have done something else. We significantly improved the available income in the citizen's pocket, in his wallet. I therefore put forward the figures showing the comparison between Greece and Europe in the citizens' available income, because that ultimately counts. It was mainly through tax reductions, which are in the package of 43 billion euros, the comparison with the quarters of the past - I tabled it and yesterday - and the deposits of the citizens who continue to grow months - months until October. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Conclusion: The government's measures were many, they were sufficient, they were effective for households and businesses, mainly for the middle class and lower income levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, may I have a debate for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Castanides, we're gonna waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u454	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u455	Wait a minute, here you go. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, he needs a lot of attention. I respond to the questions raised. What I told you is that you have no recovery and that within 2021, the loss coverage of 69.5% - that topic I raised - is less than other countries, fifteen in number, which with much less budgetary demand have earned all losses within 2021, while we are going for 2022. That's the first thing. Secondly, I would ask you for the objectivity of the data - you have chosen the issue of unemployment - to resume the debate on the basis of the figures of November and December 2021. In fact, to make it easier for you, I might ask a question. Not the figures immediately after the summer, but the figures from November and December 2021 need to see where unemployment lies. I'll challenge the conversation and we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u457	We simply have to agree that the existing risk of locking and launching unemployment has not been confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u458	Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou has the floor. Happy birthday to you for your holiday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u459	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to vote on the 2022 budget, which will allow us - with appropriate cash-pools - to implement both social and development policies, while at the same time we will be able to rebuild our infrastructure better, but also to create the conditions for bringing our country with security and prosperity in the future. This is a budget which adopts increased expenditure on dealing with the consequences of the pandemic and in the health sector, colleagues, Mr Kastanides, and also on the labour sector, as well as on the protection of vulnerable social groups, thus reflecting our moral and political values and, of course, strengthens our country's defence capacity, but above all its production capacity. The growth rate of the country in 2022 is estimated to rise to 6.9%, which will appear both in the financial support of households and businesses, as well as in the increase in domestic product and in the creation of new and additional jobs that we need throughout the country, and in particular in some areas, such as in western Greece and in the Prefecture of Elias. The country's public debt is now considered viable. It is a very big government success that according to the OECD study in October 2021 Greece is assessed as the only Member State that does not need to take further budgetary measures to prevent an increase in its debt. These official estimates are also a strong sign that the government's collective budgetary policy is indeed a success. The positive economic performance, the unprecedented success of the issue of government bonds in international markets, the retention of inflation below the average of the European Union and the slash in foreign institutions and private capital in Greece will quickly allow us to return to full regularity and to a new improved normality that we all deserve. National resources, the new European Multiannual Financial Framework, the resources of the Resilience and Recovery Fund, the Fair Transfer Fund, international financial institutions that support new strategic investments, as well as private funds that now trust us in Greek and foreign investors create a vast pool of money, from which we can draw adequate resources and implement the desired policies and projects. Significant foreign direct investment has already been announced for the country, while at the same time there are reserves of investment projects which once they have been implemented will provide new and additional incomes, both in state funds and in local communities. Analogous significant investment is expected to take place in the laws of Ilias, and there is already competition between investors about who will be able to invest in our country, both in traditional sectors such as tourism and the real estate market, as well as in new competitive sectors such as energy and digital infrastructure. This new normality in our country was not created in itself, but it is the result of substantial reforms that the Mitsotakis Government has undertaken. These are reforms that revive the Greek economy and society, reforms that at last block Greece from the stumbling blocks created by the SYRIZA Government, stumbling down an obsolete political ideology that was falsely characterized as socially and environmentally sensitive, while in practice its social and environmental policy had taken away from it. Thousands of fellow citizens waited for, for example, years for the pension to be awarded, living under poverty, unemployment was rising, the state of the natural environment deteriorated. On the contrary, today the measurement of the carbon footprint and the 'green' of our budget, the response to the climate crisis in practice, the reduction in energy consumption and the increase in the penetration of renewable energy sources into the country's energy balance, as well as the actions for the real restoration of the natural environment, are among the government priorities that are financed. The Government undertakes support for households and agricultural production against the extraordinary international increase in energy costs, while digital governance allows our ever more and more fellow citizens to enjoy their rights in an uninterrupted and timely manner. Finally, for our participatory democracy, for our fellow citizens, the budget presents a very important innovation: full transparency can be achieved in public spending. Since 2022, and for the first time, citizens will know all the costs of all government agencies by sector. Indicators will also be available to measure the degree of achievement of each objective in order to measure the consistency and effectiveness of the government. With reference to the consistency and effectiveness of the New Democracy Government, I would like to end by sending a heartfelt thanks to the Prime Minister, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, and to all their partners for the great gift they brought to Elias yesterday, the resumption of the construction of the Olympian Road with regard to the Patras - Tower, a project that the previous SYRIZA government had condemned to failure, which, however, was vital to our prefecture. Towards our Government a thank you for bringing a new day for security and development to Elias. With these works in 2022 Elia is changing, Greece is changing. That is why I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Kotsiras has the floor and Mr. Mamulakis follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, can you tell us how far this list will arrive today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u462	We're going into the tenth cycle. My secretary says to number 160. Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u463	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today in the debate on an extremely institutional process, in the debate on the budget for 2022. Despite the global uncertainty caused by the economic crisis and although current international developments are an additional factor of uncertainty, our country has already recorded the first positive results since the gradual decline of the immediate economic impact of the pandemic crisis. The growth rate in 2021 is significantly upwards, the economy has already covered a significant part of the lost domestic product and even at a time when there have been significant restrictive measures in the course of the first half of the year. Financially available remains at safe levels with the severe management made by the financial staff, while the long-term financial consequences of the pandemic are limited by strengthening economic growth with the help of the additional resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has significantly helped in this critical period for the Greek economy. This results in, and the aim is to bring about the daily lives of citizens, to reduce unemployment, to increase investment in 2022. That is why additional measures are being taken to support society and households are being made available through targeted support measures and permanent tax reductions, which has been a key target from the principle of governance of this government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Ministry of Justice is actively involved in this great effort. Public investment budget appropriations, in particular, finance horizontal actions for the administrative modernisation of the services and structures concerned, while the Recovery Fund specifically supports the budget in order to achieve maximum imprint on improving the daily quality of our country's legal environment. The Ministry of Justice is supervised by the Judiciary Fund, the National School of Judges and the Minors Protection Company. These legal persons are planned for 2022 to have a positive result of EUR 18 million derived mainly from the activity of the FIFG. In addition, as is apparent from the recently adopted Law on the National School of Judges, provision is made for regular and extraordinary seminars to address the educational, educational and operational needs of the National School of Judges, which will support through the European Social Fund and the Relief and Resistance Fund the school's resources in order to assist in training courses that will benefit future judges, active judicial officers and upgrade a product very important for the functioning of the Justice Area, following reforms carried out in 2021 and were reforms that helped improve the legal environment, and the objective is to help many years later, such as the change of the Code of Civil Procedure, the changes in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on European Prosecutors, for the Court of Auditors, and the recently digitized National Court of Justice. Following these initiatives, which are reflected in the reports of the rule of law of 2021 and improve the working environment for the area of justice, the Ministry of Justice will be launched on the basis of the following priorities: firstly, the faster and more effective administration of justice through important initiatives such as the strengthening of electronic justice, the implementation of actions to increase the electronic deposit of documents, the extension of computerisation of judicial services, the education and continuing training of judicial officers and judicial staff, the operation of the Office for the collection and processing of statistical data, while at the same time strengthening cooperation and the promotion of procedures in justice through the cooperation of the Ministry with the European Commission and Eurojust, the exchange of information between judicial bodies, the identification of communication needs and the strengthening of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the training of judicial and other legal professions in order to fulfil other European obligations we have in the context of judicial cooperation. The main objective is to protect human rights through the development of actions aimed at enhancing the protection of vulnerable social groups and facilitating their access to justice procedures - a key element of these is digitisation - to strengthen the institutions and structures of the above-mentioned individuals, to assist the exercise of their rights, while, in addition to the action we have in the context of the National Action Plan for Disabled Persons, we will move on to actions for the accessibility of persons with disabilities in court areas, the implementation of actions of the National Action Plan for Racism and Midoxicity, the implementation of actions envisaged for the National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child, with emphasis on child-friendly justice - in particular, the 'House of the Child' of Athens, which was an important initiative and the objective is to develop further any institution that favours the child-friendlyness of the juvenile, actions for the effective implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Also, these initiatives will result in - in 2022 - significant improvement in the direct, effective and qualitative access of citizens to justice for the exercise of their rights, ensuring the efficiency and quality of the justice system, as well as the independence of the Greek justice system, the judicial officers and their further compliance, strengthening e-government in justice to assist the work of all actors serving the sensitive area of Greek justice, strengthening procedures at European and international level, exchanging good practices and data and increasing differences with cross-border character, investing in institutions that help in this direction, as well as protecting fundamental rights and values. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice is becoming - in the context of the implementation of a coherent and comprehensive plan of reforms and the use of available financial instruments - a source of support for the great effort made by the Greek Government to strengthen justice, social cohesion, competitiveness, the economy, the country's prosperity prospects, the protection of human rights. 2022 will be a year of perspective for Greek justice, perspective for Greek society. The government is making a huge effort on many fronts. The Prime Minister is fighting every day in order to upgrade the country's international environment, the European environment, and to be able to win the battles that are needed for our country to strengthen, raise, and participate actively in this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u464	Thank you. Here comes Mr. Mamulakis from SYRIZA. Let's make an update and say that today we're going to go up to Mrs. Anna Vaguena, which is in the 157th list of registered speakers. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think what was done two-quarters ago, namely the official announcement in the public debate in the famous study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra, if anything else was shocked. It was shocked in many respects because the dramatic situation in our country's health system is encountering a tragic irony. And why am I talking about tragic irony? Because the pensioner simply cleanses the Prime Minister of the country, which is a pension, that is, Mr Tsiodras, I am appalled in passing, was the man who, in the spring of 2020, acted in his act - and, if you like, worked by the Prime Minister himself, in order to be able to propose and adopt - if you like - government interventions at that time. Tragic irony, because you see that politics is often avenged and avenged in a paradox, but often fair. The essence of this case, however, is that three weeks ago the Prime Minister said that he did not know and there was nothing, a thorough study, he did not know of any study that proves that death is obviously out of my mind much greater. He didn't know? Indeed, I think Mr Economou officially mentioned - not so, Minister? - that the Prime Minister was not aware of this study which, I am passing away, was prepared in May 2021. Let's accept that, he didn't know. Why didn't he know, though? Did some people hide it? Did he go through the papers or a drawer? That reminds Mr Venizelo of the well-known drawer and the usb of the Lagard list, but in any case. Mr. Kikilias, the minister at the time, didn't he let him know? Because we know that Mr Lytras has mentioned that this information has been received at the highest level. Mr. Kikilis didn't know that, too, let's assume that. After the speech of the Prime Minister here, did the pensioner himself not inform him that there was such a study? They are really worthy, because I appreciate that these questions cannot be answered. I wish they would answer, in order to clarify the landscape, and I invite you, Mr Economou, to answer this reasonable question or the grid of questions I have raised. My feeling is that all of this has not been answered because there is simply a crystallined, documented situation, unfortunately, for our country, which is what the report itself says. Four out of ten of our fellow citizens would probably have been saved. You can understand that if we make the reduction and see the number of twenty thousand dead, unfortunately, things are very bad and I don't want to get into this shameful thinking. I would therefore conclude by making this statement on the sanitary aspect, and I think that the Prime Minister of the country can no longer hide. On Saturday, indeed, a critical debate will take place here in the Greek Parliament and will be called upon to respond, because the questions have been put on the table and should, by serving its institutional role, respond to this alone. Now I come into the matter of course that this House is concerned with and that is no more than the state's budget for 2022. Gentlemen of the Government, you know, I imagine the phrase that Alkiviadis has said "the administration is foreseeable". And because I think that forecasts and the implementation of the 2021 budget, but also with the government's given moves, are typical, which is why I wanted to put them into discussion. First of all, it mentioned the fiscal expansion in which the country actually went, a massive budget expansion for our country's data, more than EUR 43 billion. Efficacy, Mr Stakoura, you know, is a bit relevant. Because, in comparison with other countries in the South, we are in a better situation, but the absolute size - because mathematics is vague - of the aid given, which is not only with the help of the Commission and the European Union - but we have not already asked ourselves, which is very critical - will be called upon to return this lending, of course, with exceptional interest-rate conditions that some have guaranteed in the past, in order to get the country out of the memoranda, to regulate the debt and, of course, to leave the famous buffet of EUR 37 billion. But in any case, I say it and mentioned the predictions that are directly related to the administration. For the expected absorption of the recovery fund, for example, the country's great risk, do you know what happened? For 2022 every six months, you're losing the target. We had started with an estimate of EUR 2.6 billion in the medium term, six months after it came down, humiliated to EUR 1.6 billion, and today you, the same people, present in the same Chamber a 0.6 billion euro absorbance. She, you know, is a very worrying finding. From the estimates of yours, so sudden, so rapid impairment of estimates, it concerns and is very concerned. Hence what I mentioned to you about the ability of the administration if you cannot predict. Admittedly, let us say that the government's performance in the NRP and in the absorption of the Public Investment Programme - which, of course, is not only about you, Mr Staikoura, it is also about the Ministry of Development - are even worse than those of the Recovery Fund. For the time being, for three months, the market has been squeezing. In small and medium-sized enterprises, large and small joint ventures, specialization and training programmes, all projects related to the NSRP, there is an informal payment stop. They've been closed a hundred days and they haven't even taken one cent. And there has been no reply, and we have brought the matter to a timely question in the Greek Parliament and not answered. That is what concerns me, and I think it is also a matter of parliamentary order. Now, as far as failures are concerned, a metaphysical belief remains by the government, that the economy alone will recover in 2022. And here we are talking about forecasts, we are seeing today also from the NAPPENING, where six rating houses - I think serious and sufficiently prestigious - such as MODY'S, FITCH, TRS, SCOPE RATINGS, UBS and STADARD & POOR'S are ringing bells, two strong bells: firstly, we must not underestimate the perseverance of the risk of pandemic, especially after the 'Micro' mutation, and secondly, high inflation for our country which seems to be hilarious even more in 2022. The budget we are debating today has not taken into account these two very basic parameters. And you know, when these parameters are away, we will still find ourselves surprised and again we will find that the estimates of the past are too far from what we will see in the near future. Unfortunately, this does not only concern macroeconomic figures, but above all, the vain expectations of the effectiveness of the current government. For example, a Member of Parliament, such as myself, from Crete, must try to explain to local society why, while the country is flooding with Community funds, there are regions affected, such as the Arkalochori region, a seismic region, and there is not even one cent in the 2022 budget. Or should we explain - perhaps the New Democracy colleagues should explain more than we do - why the, imaginaryly, BOC has not been given and will not be given 1 euro in real construction work in 2022. In conclusion, Mr President, I think that the combination of our country's exemption from the European Central Bank's bond repo programme and the financial adjustment of EUR 9.7 billion - that is, EUR 5.4 billion, according to the Gross National Product - do not show a favourable signal for the Greek economy. And, rather - it is what Mr Ragus also said, the Parliamentary Representative days ago - this government, Mr Mitsotakis' government, is not a memorial government, it is, unfortunately, a government for the country and the citizens, a memorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u466	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, in his letter of 16-12-2021 to the President of Parliament, informs us that MP B2's West Athens Division Mr Panagiotis Kourublis is out of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. [[The above letter is entered in the minutes of today's sitting and reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 451]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, I would like to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u468	I'm sorry, ten seconds until the Step is cleared, I said. Please, I have made fewer speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u469	I'm sorry, what for? About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u470	If the Minister will answer every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u471	No, I don't answer every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u472	You were in the government and you knew this, now you're gonna find out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u473	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u474	But please, you have a parliamentary representative. If the parliamentary representative wants to, he can take the floor and say it. You have no right. Unfortunately, that's the way it happens. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u475	Mr Colleague, you have rightly referred to the dangers and uncertainties of 2022. And indeed, they exist. However, since you have referred to specific houses, I am always filing evidence - only for that reason - or I have my position on Saturday - to tell you that, for example, the houses to which you referred, MODY'S or SCOPE RATINGS, for 2021 - which we value 6.9% - value 8.2% and 8.6%. The consensus market, the common market component, is for 7.6%. Rather, we are conservative enough as government and, rather, we incorporate a large part of the risks or uncertainties - which you have rightly raised - for 2021 and 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u476	Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member of Parliament, there are moments - and I say it through my heart - that I am ashamed of some people I hear in the Greek Parliament. A disgrace, but also a sorrow for the populism and the political ignorance of some. We have just watched a show by Mr. Kourublis, bad styles and bad taste. It should be understood and understood by everyone that there are limits, even in anguish for self-promotion. As far as the budgetary debate is concerned, it is well known that the debate contains a number of figures and percentages, and I would say, over and above all, that it is the depository of numericality. But it is equally well known that numbers often and, depending on how they are presented, deceive of their real image. As far as I'm concerned, I'll use them very little. Really, how does the state of the economy reflect today? As far as the government is concerned, no mind can deny that it does what is possible and does not take the necessary measures to ensure the stability of the state's financial operation, to support entrepreneurship and to strengthen our fellow citizens who are affected by the consequences of the continuing pandemic. I would also like to point out here that the attitude of the Police Officer to refuse everything and to denounce the government, whether given or not, is causing concern and sorrow for populism and opportunism that distinguishes it. Now, as far as ordinary citizens are concerned, economic everyday life is clearly not easy. Small and medium-sized households are trying to meet their basic obligations. Small and family enterprises - which, of course, have been left out of the ten-year economic crisis and the unprecedented pandemic - are pushing the weather with asthma, waiting for new breaths. And our youths are in a class of abduction, without knowing whether the snore is outwards or inwards into the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in this protracted state of national oppression from the economic crisis and from the coronary, the new budget comes in which the government is self-aware, with courage and determination it brings to the vote. It is a budget that is realistic, modern, investment-friendly and very dynamic with social reflexes. It is a very serious response to serious challenges in time coming from a credible government. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that health and social welfare are the areas that require the greatest attention to be paid to the hybrid age we live in. And here I have to say that the government continues, as in the past, intensive support, since the 2022 budget is costing EUR 11.7 billion for health, and six thousand staff recruitments from which about four thousand seven hundred twelve are scheduled for the year ahead. For social welfare expenditure reaches EUR 3.73 billion, i.e. it is increased by EUR 240 million compared to 2021. This is to finance new actions relating to childbirth, housing, social solidarity, uninsured over-ages, preferential cash benefits to people with disabilities, as well as other programmes, actions and actions, such as school meals, financial support to foster parents and income support to residents of mountains and disadvantaged areas. I cannot, of course, refer to the defence sector and not to express my pleasure at the way in which the Government has dealt with the reinforcement of the Armed Forces. He did it last year, and he continues to do so with bravery this year. It provides for EUR 6.40 billion of equipment against EUR 880 million, without including the last orders for aircraft and warships, as these will start to be paid on delivery. In addition to these, however, recruitment is planned - very importantly, because power means both inside and personnel - a thousand five-year-old armed forces and two thousand four hundred more imports into the productive schools of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. These actions, ladies and gentlemen, what do they show? They show that for us, the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the defence and security of the country are above all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I have left a last very critical point in my view. The government's intention to deal with birthhood is indeed in the right direction, but it is not enough. It should be understood by everyone that demographic is a night bomb, which threatens the hard core of my existence. I believe that a political agreement needs to be reached on an integrated national plan of long-term action, in order to prevent the ageing of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, with this comment I am closing. I am voting in favour of the 2022 budget and I invite you to do so too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u478	Mrs Catherine Papanatziou has the floor from SYRIZA and then Minister Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. We are witnessing government success or, as the Minister said, we are delighted to be surprised by the government. Unfortunately, you do not surprise us at all, let alone pleasantly. We're in another difficult pandemic. Are you satisfied? Will you answer what is happening with the recent study on the strengths of the IFs? It is unacceptable what is happening in the country. The Prime Minister knew and lied? Did he ask if we have a study by SYRIZA to testify and now the study was filed in the press, which they had for so many months? We're wondering if there's no end to the catastrophe. Yesterday you tried to convince the whole of the opposition that the budget is not what it seems, that there is no reduction in expenditure as a whole and, above all, in health and social benefits. We are still discussing a budget which, although it accepts uncertainties from the development of the pandemic, withdraws most of the support measures, with a direct impact on both citizens and businesses. The reduction in expenditure reaches 5 billion euros in total in the budget, while the emergency measures are deducted around 12 billion euros. At the same time, it is obvious that health expenditure and transfers to hospitals are being reduced. To increase inflation and appreciation, you don't even seem to have a plan. From your statements and the budget, your measures are so fragmented and little that will make no difference for the citizens. Both the increased heating allowance and the electricity subsidy and the minimum guaranteed income will not be enough to reverse food and energy appreciations. All you seem to be concerned about is the increase in revenue. An increase of close to EUR 3.5 billion with VAT having its price. The increase in taxes is reasonable as a result of the growth in GDP, but this increase is over-represented by revaluations. Ladies and gentlemen, with your budget you have three main points to deal with. One is pandemic. Managers have failed and this is even more outrageous when you triumph. We've got more than a hundred dead a day, and you're reducing health expenditure. The second is accuracy. And here, no designing lies, lies about our own proposals and recommendations for cooling, saying the phenomenon is transient. At the beginning of September, the government, through its representative, told the Greek people that everything is under control. One month later, we arrived at an unprecedented and unbearable reality, with chains of appreciation in October in essentials, gas 132%, heating oil 46%, fuel 22%, electricity 19%. The shocking features of ELSTAT are also the share of average expenditure on food and housing for households of the poorest 20% of the population amounting to 58.2% of households' spending. In addition, the percentage of households that declare economic weakness for satisfactory heating in winter amounts to 17.1%, while the corresponding figure for poor households is 39.1%. You work like wheelchairs in both cases, both in fact and in the pandemic. The third is social cohesion which is affected and combined with these parameters. This is where you failed. Suffice to congratulate you on the development that is, of course, a recovery and do not look at what is going on around you. It's none of your business. In this context, next to the threat of pandemic, a structural threat that is existential to Greek society, erods social cohesion, changes the Greek society as we know it. With regard to the available income and the good position of our country in the European Union, the GFCM Institute points out that in October only the increase in the price of housing, transport and food costs reduced the purchasing power of the minimum wage by 7.4%. Similarly, the continued increases in the price of energy, in the first fortnight of November, increase this corrosion to 10%. Even if inflation is zeroed in the second half of next year, as your scenario wants, it means that many prices will remain stable. Therefore, once again, the workers, the pensioners, will have suffered a permanent loss of purchasing power. Your little penny in the daily lives of the citizens, what is it, gentlemen of the government? Because, if I remember correctly, SYRIZA's thirteenth pension in 2018 was "fly" and you abolished it, but now the 250 euros - and not all of them - are "successful". This is the part of your political signature. Unfortunately, everything about communication. Your policy has nothing to offer in the long term. You are counting once again on the estimates of huge numbers for investments, 21%. You didn't even get out last year. You insist on saying that private consumption will strengthen the economy. How will our fellow citizens continue to consume, when they do not make a month with increases and debts and an adjustment on the basis of the budget figures near EUR 9.6 billion? Refugee the increase in wages and the reduction in excise duties we have proposed. You do not go ahead with any substantial regulation of pandemic debts, thus increasing due amount, but you insist. Move without any design. The Greek people are being tortured by the increases, by the pandemic, by the uncertainty about today and tomorrow, and by you, who have the responsibility of the country, all you do is admire yourself. Full indifference to the fate of the citizens. Full distortion and lies everywhere, even from the seat of the House. You are the most cynical and irreversible government the place has ever known. And that's a truth that doesn't hide, no matter what millions you share. Because this truth the Greek people experience it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u480	Thank you. Mr. Aygeakis has the floor. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u481	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is characterised by the change in the page that has taken place in our country. Healing the wounds the pandemic left, sets strong foundations for restarting the economy, creating a future with optimism and positive prospects. Yes, indeed, the development of pandemic is causing global uncertainty about the future of the economy and the strengths of the systems. However, the 2022 budget highlights our country's development potential, responds adequately to the challenges and integrates policies that combine economic efficiency and social justice. Mostly, they are governed by the commitments of our government and Prime Minister. We have been committed at the first time to support society, and we have done so, with support measures for businesses and the sectors of the economy. Let me highlight some of the main features of the budget, which define the country's main objectives. Our economy is based on extroversion, innovation, digital transformation and, of course, green transition, the main axis of "Greece 2.0". Our economic model is a point of attraction for investment. They've unlocked investment projects that had been loaded for years. In addition, it attracts new investments, creating new and well-paid jobs. The new budget, like the previous one, does not include new taxes. On the contrary, it includes additional tax reductions and measures to support entrepreneurship, households and the new generation. And, of course, it is worth stressing that the number of unemployed is the lowest since April 2010, while the number of people employed is the highest since June 2011. This data can mark the beginning of the return of young people to our home country. We must not forget one of our main objectives, to create all the conditions, so that we can make our country a place for the creation and fulfilment of the business objectives of our children again. The budget shows that the government may have immediate reflexes and react directly to the emergencies, intervening wisely, but mainly decisively. As far as the area of sport is concerned, we have now completed thirty months of substantial work, a job that had and had at its heart the development of amateur sport, the extroversion of Greek sport, the upgrading and modernisation of our sports facilities and, of course, the promotion of the values of sport and olympism in society, with a job that was done under extremely difficult conditions, which was imposed on us by the pandemic. This work has now begun to bear fruit and its results are already visible, not only in the athletic family, but in the entire Greek society. As far as the financial support for sport, which many expect to hear, is concerned, we would be blind if we did not realize that the area of sport has been hardened by the consequences of the pandemic. Championships have been interrupted, international events - which we laborably claimed and programmed - have been suspended, facilities closed. I experienced the emotional pressure of all those who were forced to deprive their second home, the place they are playing, practicing and staying at home for a long time. However, I would remind you that we have not sat down with our hands on genuine financial support for sport as a whole. We have taken care of lightning, I would remind you, of the inclusion of athletes, of sports clubs in the common-benefited umbrella to address the consequences of the coronary, by subjecting them to the additional SAR for support measures. National sports centres, supervised by the State Secretary for Sports, proceeded in 2021, as in 2020, to brave financial facilities for amateur clubs. The main philosophy of the fundamental support for amateur sport and with excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Christos Staikos and all the staff, we proceeded to the direct grant of amateur sports clubs for their immediate support, which had not been done in the past twelve years, with absolute transparency and above all on objective criteria. The definition of direct support for the base sport, a revolution of self-evident, as sports clubs themselves mentioned with their announcements. At the beginning of May 2021, both phases of financial support had been paid to a total of four thousand six hundred ninety amateur associations, legal, active and registered in the Office of the Ministry of Sports. The amount is EUR 13,268,000. By Law 4819 we voted for a provision for amateur athletes, stipulating that athletes who are struggling in clubs participating in the championships of amateur classes can sign a private sports service agreement on this subject, which will be submitted to the respective federations. They'll be able to have insurance cover. If this provision existed earlier, they could be included in the protection measures against the consequences of the pandemic. And of course, we predicted the financing of sports teams from revenues resulting from the new way of taxing gambling. We decided to reach the Ministry of Sports 60% of the State's additional revenue, created by the new way of taxation, in order to be allocated to sport. Of these, 50% is distributed to professional sport and the remaining 50% are distributed to amateur sport. Already as aid from the pandemic's effects, there has been immediate advances in professional sport of EUR 29,200,000. As far as the funding of amateur sports clubs from the profits of betting is concerned, the relevant CYA, which refers to a percentage of the tax collected from gambling, is already being published. We've already completed all the procedures. The KYA is at its last final stage and the signature of Mr. Skylakakis is expected. It is also at the last stage of its publication, which specialises the distribution rates from the participation of clubs in European events and our national teams. Let us clarify that the beneficiaries of funding are only amateur clubs registered in the electronic sports clubs of the Ministry of Sports in 2021. We have established and implemented a fair system based on the principles of transparency, equality and deserve. As far as doping is concerned, we have made progress in the fight against doping. We have ratified the revised anti-doping code and we have fully complied with international practice. We are proud, ladies and gentlemen, because of the contempt and dissatisfaction thanks to the enormous effort of the EEC, just a few days ago, the effort made over a year and a half has been successful. We have worked for months, but we have finally been able to harmonize the tens of WADA observations, which we unfortunately inherited from the previous government. With an official announcement from the World Organisation of Antidopting, Greece is no longer under surveillance, but in its position on the global sporting territory, while they remain under surveillance countries with a great sporting tradition, such as Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Romania. However, Greece has been glowing, as should have been the case for years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unprecedented work has also been done in the field of dealing with racing manipulation. We set up the National Platform of Sports Integrity, PESTHLA, an active mechanism for managing reports of all forms of manipulation, with the cooperation of institutions such as the National Transparency Authority, the Committee for the Control and Supervision of Games, the Greek Police and of course the Athletic Prosecutor. We are already cultivating the development of partnerships to promote the PESTHLA mechanism and social awareness of fighting racing manipulation. We have finally finished the absolute retardation in the field of sports clubs, with each federation making an approximate fictitious statement about the amateur unions he had. With the total support of the sporting family, the record of amateur sports clubs is now an integral part of our sport building. The union administrations have understood through this dynamic process that households and transparency are rewarded and embraced our initiative. Moreover, the sports club record has five thousand two hundred a registered amateur sports clubs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u482	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u483	And the checks on the applications of unions that have not yet been settled continue and, as I said, they will receive funding. With a view to maintaining transparency conditions everywhere, we are immediately planning the coach register and following the register of athletes. And I'm going on as far as the premiums are concerned, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u484	Minister, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u485	I therefore move on with the payment of distinguished athletes and coaches for 2018, amounting to EUR 117 000, and the payment of the premiums for 2019 has also been launched. And one last thing about infrastructure. One of our central policies is the provision to the sports family of modern and safe sports infrastructures, development centres of all sports horizontally. Our country was required to have sports solo sites and this was done thanks to a large programme of modernisation, maintenance and energy upgrading that we are implementing in our sports infrastructures. We granted over 22 million euros, with the support of the Ministry of Finance, in our national sports facilities. With maintenance and upgrades, we build sound bases and we envision a state-of-the-art OAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u486	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u487	By ensuring only 56.4m euros from the Recovery and Resilience Fund, respectively, we are implementing a development and recovery plan to make sport facilities and environments a pole of sport-recreational activities, and we proceeded with announcements just Monday on the completion of studies and tenders for the "Home of Stephen" and "Voley House" in Portugal. And finally, we have moved on to a programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u488	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u489	You're welcome, Mr. President. I just need a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u490	You're not respecting it, Mr. Undersecretary!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u491	I'm sorry, but before Mr. Friends spoke, I didn't see the same reaction. Calm down. Please, I'm very sorry. A little courtesy. A little courtesy, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u492	Unlimited courtesy, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u493	Twelve minutes he's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u494	When Mr. Friends spoke, no colleague from New Democracy interrupted him. Now you're walking in the Chamber, wanting to be what? The hurt one? Please, respect! Respect and calm. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u495	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the procedure. I asked the Minister, but you did not help. You've been delayed even longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u496	So I conclude by saying about the 'PHILODIMOS II' programme, where, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, we have set up a total amount of EUR 121 million of sports infrastructure, while, in the case of the 'ITIS' programme, we have projects totalling EUR 59.7 million, and all this in cooperation with self-government. I close with the digital platform 'POLOPAS', a platform where all the sports facilities of both the Ministry of Sports and the municipalities are now recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u497	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u498	To conclude, Mr President, I would like to ask all my fellow Members to see things objectively and above all, with an honest eye. It is time to see that Greece has changed and is constantly changing at all levels. I ask them and I ask you to vote in favour of this budget. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u499	It is very difficult from the Step to stop anyone, whether a fellow minister or a parliamentary representative. I think everyone can understand that we need time for the rest of the Members. We are now continuing with Mr Pascalides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is currently being discussed, namely the second budget drawn up by the New Democracy Government in conditions of pandemic and an ongoing global economic crisis. Nevertheless, this is an innovative and developmental budget and, at the same time, fully adapted to the needs of a reality that is shaped internationally after the pandemic test, with a provocative view to the need for a more resilient economy on the basis of sustainable and green development. At this point in time this budget marks the transition of our country from the recovery stage to the development phase. Despite uncertainties, the growth rate for 2021 is estimated at 7% and 2022 at 4%. According to the European Commission, this year we will have the third highest growth in the Eurozone, while for the entire three years 2021-022-2023 we have been above the Eurozone average. In particular, the passage from the recovery of 2021 to the budget will take place through an increase in GDP of 6.9% for this year and 4.5% for next year, with drivers of private consumption, investment and exports. More specifically, in 2022 private consumption will increase by 3% and investment by 21.9%, while exports will increase by 11.1%. I would like to make a special reference to unemployment, which is expected to deviate by 1.7%. In fact, I mention that in September 2020, unemployment in our country was 16.5%, in September 2021 it fell to 13%, i.e. there was an improvement of three and a half points. Therefore, within twelve months and in time of a pandemic, more than a hundred thousand fellow citizens found work. This most important development recorded by ELSTAT sends optimistic messages about the country's development progress, as increasing labour market participation is a key factor in economic growth and prosperity. I would also like to stress that in the critical health field, public spending will be increased in 2022, both in terms of 2021 and in relation to 2019. Total health expenditure is at EUR 11.7 billion for 2022 or 6.3% of GDP, very close to the European average. In addition, recruitment in the health sector will cover 29% of the total appointments and is therefore estimated at about six thousand recruitments in 2022. At the same time, all available European tools, with a peak of the Recovery Fund, are used for the overall upgrading and armouring of the health system. Let us not forget the extra payment of half the wage to health workers and workers in the EAW. As regards, now, the development of the economy, this is not only due to the lifting of restrictive sanitary measures, but to a large extent to the unprecedented financial support for households and businesses, which is being implemented over the whole critical period and will continue for 2022, aid exceeding EUR 43 billion on a cash basis. For example, I mention the increase in the State subsidy in electricity and gas consumption accounts, the reinforcement of the heating allowance, the expansion of income and assets eligibility criteria, the doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for the month of December and the provision of additional aid to low pensioners. After all, the current government has shown its support in the primary sector too, and also in the return of excise duty on diesel. And because today's budget is also social law, it includes a number of measures involving the element of social justice, with the support of employment and the available income of citizens. This supports the Ministry of Education to pay the child allowance, the housing allowance, the promotional cash benefits for disabled persons, as well as programmes, actions and actions such as school meals, financial support to foster parents and income support for families living in mountain and disadvantaged areas. At the same time, the continued implementation of development measures that were part of the government programme, before the outbreak of the health crisis, will be an additional favourable factor in achieving a high growth rate in 2022. To sum up, I would like to stress that 2022 is expected to be a year of recovery of the Greek economy in conditions of normality. In contrast to last year's budget, which focused on the efficient management of the pandemic, this year's budget marks development, focusing on the green transition, lays the foundations for relaunching the economy from a new starting point for stronger prospects and creates a sense of security in Greek society. Minister Stagioras has tabled a balanced and costed budget, taking into account modern economic developments both within the country and abroad and confirming that our government has social sensitivities, but does not remain out of the question. The delusional ones, anyway, are the privilege of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u501	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA, and then the Minister, Mr. Economou, will speak. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u502	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the pandemic is growing, increasing inflation and accuracy, it would be reasonable to expect that any normal government, which cares for all citizens and not for a few, would give the budget a solution and address the acute problems. Instead of this through the budget, which portrays the class ideological core of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, not only does it refuse stubbornly and arrogantly to understand the reality and admit the failure of its policy in the past two years, but it continues in the same catastrophic pattern. Instead of strengthening the National Health System, it reduces funding, reduces social costs, does not take measures in fact, inflation and the private debt of citizens and businesses. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the estimates of the 2022 budget may attempt to pete, as the song says, the ears of the citizens, but they are far from the truth. And this is sunshine more obvious, because they are based on the assessment of transientity of both pandemic and inflation and accuracy, and I call on your statements, Mr Staikoura, to the media. The worst, of course, is that this assessment is used as an excuse and an alibi by the government. See statements on improper MSFs after the end of the pandemic, for non-positive measures. There are structural failures, Mr Minister, but they have disastrous consequences. In particular, with regard to the budget: Firstly, the increase in GDP with the current estimates to 6.9%, as you say, Minister, is mainly due to the increase in public and private consumption, the reduction or small increase in imports and not to investments or exports, while the trend towards deindustrialisation remains unfavourable, as the final Pissarides report says in November 2020. I invoke two elements of investment and exports. In November 2020 you anticipated an increase in investment by 23.2% in 2021. In 2021, however, it will close with about half the increase expected, i.e. 11.7%. In 2022, in your budget, you anticipate an increase in investment by 21.9%. In 2021 you predicted exports of 22.5%. The estimates of this period, of course, are that the year will be closed with an increase of 14.9%. Second point. According to the budget forecast, our country's public debt will rise to EUR 355 billion, i.e. to 189% as a percentage of GDP, i.e. we have a rapid increase. If the exorbitant public debt adds the negative current account balance and the possibility of not continuing the facilities of the European Central Bank with quantitative relaxation, then, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this must not only concern us, but also concern us. Third point. The Public Investment Programme has been integrated into the total amount of allocated appropriations and has a marked decline in the expenditure component relative to 2020 and 2021. This loss is intended to be compensated for by EU appropriations for the Recovery and Resilience Fund up to EUR 13.9 billion, while the EU's lower amounts of grants for 2022 of EUR 3.8 billion show that the Government is not prepared to absorb the funds provided for in the new multiannual financial framework for the seven-year period 2021-2027. Fourth point. It provides for a reduction in social-state expenditure, amounting to EUR 29.8 billion in 2022. In 2021 expenditure was EUR 37.9 billion and in 2020 EUR 38.1 billion. The Ministry of Health, with the significant reduction in its costs, shows that it has a high weight of this attitude, but the higher cost of spending is borne by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where the transfer of about 3.5 billion euros is recorded. Fifth point. The 2022 budget does not address the huge problem of the private debt of citizens and businesses. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, there is a reduction, Minister, compared to 2021 by 20 million euros and I think you cannot deny it. This reduction will clearly affect the whole operation of the entity, with a direct impact on the optimal exercise of foreign policy and the responsibilities of the State. The FIFG budget remains below what is necessary for its operation, and in fact, according to the medium-term, there is a further reduction. And this when, Minister, in any case, the low operating costs relate, among other things, to the movements of officials from all sectors, when the subdelegation of the external service authorities, at the same time as reopening principles in Libya, Syria and new ones in Senegal, Libya and China, has reached an unprecedented level and when the upgrading of buildings and outdated equipment remains urgent, while the digitisation of consular authorities and economic services is still at the level of the announcements. Living conditions of uninsured officials at external service authorities and for the new year, even in the middle of a pandemic, are, first of all, a deterrent to accepting positions of external authorities and then to represent or carry out their duties, due to their established wages, while living costs have been steadily increased in recent years. And that is when, Minister - and this is worth noting - international practice is the proportion of the U.S. Office budgets to the Ministry of National Defence to become 1/5. In our country, the EUR 254 million for the Ministry of Defence, less than the ERT budget, corresponds to the EUR 6 billion for the Ministry of Defence. It's one to twenty-four or another 1/24. It is therefore necessary to increase the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with an emphasis on the modernisation and practical support of its staff, in order to meet the growing challenges facing our country in an increasingly changing international environment. At this point, I would like to welcome the moves made by the Diplomatics Union which invites its members to a two-hour job stop on Friday 17 December with similar positions to these findings. I am tabling the relevant communication from the EDPS. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a few minutes to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the only certainty in the 2022 budget is the uncertainty, as the State's Budget Office in Parliament points out, and Mr Mitsotakis's class division in favour of the few and'mothers'. The Tsiodra-Lytra report, to refer briefly to my region, says that there is an increase of 35% in mortality in Thessaloniki and 40% in general in the province. This is due to the decline of health services and the non-development of new ones, as had been the case before with the closure of the "Panagia" Hospital and the non-building of the new wing of the "Saint Paul" Hospital in Thessaloniki, at the same time as the closure of the "Pamamonton" in Thessaloniki. The top budget debate of 2022, Minister Mitsotakis, whether you like it or not, takes place under the heavy shadow and the ghost of unbelief and lies by Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who even disproved with two days' delay, that he knew about the study of Mr Tsirda and Mr Lytras, not only as he should have done nothing to avoid thousands of deaths, but he appealed to us with a great deal of enthusiasm to Parliament by saying 'Let him name the highest level in the government that he informed'. Mr. Mitsotakis just chairs? Who's running? Suspense, covert or non-responsible, and non-determination will not prevent the free fall of his Government. The government has no longer - and after the last revelations - the citizens' own trust. In conclusion, the 2022 budget does not deal with the multiple crisis in our country and leads it to an economic and social deadlock, extending inequalities. The poorer and richer. The 2022 budget is not only the recivem of New Democracy's pre-election promises, but our people will make it the swan, but not the melodic song of today's government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u503	The State Secretary has the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u504	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the summer of 2019, when the Greek people gave us a clear command for governance, we launched the strategic plan for the full reform of Greece's productive model, so that we can bring the country to the era of the fourth industrial revolution and make the place a place of total prosperity and growth opportunities at each level. A basic set of our plan was a tax system that will draw the necessary revenue from fair burden sharing and a productive model that creates wealth, so that we can invest in essential public goods, deal with crises and mitigate inequality. Nine months after our election we found ourselves handling the pandemic and a series of secondary global crises that arose directly or indirectly from it. Despite the difficult global environment, we did not deviate from our course. The individual policies of the overall strategic plan have produced solutions, solutions, functional and practical for the problems that both home and citizens have faced. This strategy has yielded the greatest amount of money. The success we have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, has not come by magic, but as a result of a detailed planning and work effort. The political stability we have established, the international prestige of the Prime Minister, the digital transformation of the country, institutional reforms in education, justice and much more, have made Greece desirable to attract investment. Thus, our economy has gradually become transformed from an economy of consumption into an economy of creation, investment and exports. What we are doing has a clear ideological but also a political sign, but above all we have a pragmatic dimension. We are a government that is of great importance to reality, to the practical application of ideas and policies. We are a government of great importance to human experiences, because in an ever-changing world obsession with static and outdated ideologies is a recipe for failure. And the choice to twist things or to selectively invoke what suits you or even worse to decorate the pillars of the country as a whole is cheap and outdated. Our ideology and policy, ladies and gentlemen, have freed the economy and society, as well as governance from spooked dogmas and failed ideologies. Thus, we have created a functioning and efficient state, a state capable of meeting the challenges of the future, with the greatest adequacy, a state that does not function superficially, but has depth and ways of total support for citizens. And we did all that by keeping order within change and ensuring change in order. What we have already produced in the economic and institutional sphere is not an end in itself, but the instrument to promote the public and private good. We are creating and implementing policies that enable us to rapidly and directly transfer the economic and development advantage to a social acquis. We are setting up an effective social protection net and we strongly support citizens' income and quality of life with excellent policies, without jeopardising the health of the economy and without undermining the future of our country. Faced with this policy, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA opposes a speech of opposition, a feature of the existing political deadlocks. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have you not told us from this Stepma in a number of bills that our policy will bring tsunami of redundancies? And instead of redundancies, we have been reducing unemployment, we have had the largest number of workers since 2011 and eighty thousand more than 2019. How many times have you not been accusing us of this Stepma, of leaving business to their mercy and that after the end of Lockdown we will have a lockdown storm, and tens of thousands of businesses more than 2019? You were talking to us about remission-Metsotakis and the country has dramatic, impressive growth rates, impressive not only with 2020 and Lockdown, but also with 2019 and even with comparable indicators with much better results than other Mediterranean countries. You tell us that growth is due to the money we shared to support society. You blame us, of course, for doing the opposite, but the reality is that we are making an impressive rise in investments in gross fixed capital formation, 19% more than before the pandemic. You always say that the Recovery Fund and the other financial instruments operate with a logic that is cut off, you say, by the needs of society. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Recovery Fund finances hospitals, courthouses, public and judiciary digitisation, urban regenerations in important areas, green transition projects, business investment, retraining and training for new skills, bus market for urban transport. Is this all, ladies and gentlemen, outside the needs of the citizens? Health, justice, public space, buses in urban transport, the fight against bureaucracy, education, the improvement of work in the primary sector are far from the needs of the citizens? Rather, anyone who claims this is himself away from the needs, concerns, but also from the hopes of society. Ladies and gentlemen, all that I have mentioned highlights a deep, very important gap in the way we understand politics and governance. A gap that is even more widening in the way we stand against pandemic. The inability to articulate a practical, responsible, practicable speech from your opposition has diverted you into the subject of pandemic a lot. First, Mr Tsipras walks on the slippery path of a worthy and political discount. Why? Because I have supported for months the anti-infectious movement, which has led to the burden of the ESS and increased losses. I work and because it undermines the national effort to curb the pandemic and its consequences, supporting slanders and novels at the expense of health, medical staff. I work and it sows panic in society, because it wants a Greece, an economy, an education enclosed and undermines its open operation. And, unfortunately, I am also doing so because of turning science into propaganda to bring it into its own limited measure and poisoning a society that is concerned, which is being tested, which is suffering from human losses. Ladies and gentlemen, the new budget is a safe political and economic roadmap that leads with security and quick steps to Greece ahead, decisively in the future, covering weaknesses and delays of many decades. At the end of the four-year period and the most skeptical, ladies and gentlemen, he will have realised that Greece has entered an environment of growth and prosperity. And he'll have understood it out of the good that he'll feel from our politics. It seems already on the horizon that Greece will be at the end of the four-year period. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has deep roots in the history of this place. It has honest and stable ties with the citizens and this allows it to build solid foundations on which the country and the Greeks will advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u505	Minister, thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u506	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u507	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u508	Mrs Giannakopoulou has asked for the floor. And then Mr. Ragus will take the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, thank you. Minister, Mr. Economou, Mr. Chiodras, the top scientist and member of the committee, essentially when he was retired, served as advisor to the Prime Minister. Because we read your statements very carefully this morning, I wonder if you would like to tell us, Minister, that the report already being prepared at the time, the Lytra-Tsiodra report, Mr Mitsotakis, was in his unawares? And you expect us to believe you, Minister, that he was unaware of him? You know, there are times when politicians also call mea cuulpa, that Mr Mitsotakis would say, for example, "Yes, I knew it, but I underestimated it." Minister, we have shown in our attitude that, in the pandemic, we have put back, responsibly, seriously, on all this national effort, with constructive proposals. But if, as you say, there is a need to have a common front, common front of the political world, against the coronary, then these fronts, Mr Minister, require at least a basis of honesty, a basis of truth. And we feel that right now you don't show the truth. So it really needs to be true, Minister, and you are now clearly hiding it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u510	Thank you. Mr. Ragosi, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u511	Mr Economou, I honestly tell you whether we have had the opportunity to give you more time, to continue to place, as you have done, we would give you plenty, so that the great distance between the government and the Greek people is even more pronounced. A government, which no longer perceives reality, has nothing to do with the daily lives of citizens. Just two things. The first is this, which we will agree on. You said about a governance that was liberated from spooky past procedures. We agree. Our difference is to the content we give to these words. What you are called, Mr Economou, sprinkled past procedures are the principles and values of a rule of law, a favoured state from which you have indeed been liberated. You've been released from the AACC, proof that you're hiring outside AACC, who's going to the prosecutor as illegal. You have been released from the "DENMARK", proof that companies that fall under the direct control of the government are asking for and claiming for themselves to spend millions of Greek people without posting their decisions on "DENMARK". You have been released from the concept of legality and good management. And you are, Mr Economou, a personal example that proves what I am claiming at the moment. In the Committee of Inquiry, we have asked you to send the correspondence for days to the President of the Government, with the company that has undertaken to carry out this scandalous and sinful contract. Do you know what you have done, Mr. Economou, personally, have you described a reality that you are living for and not the Greek people? You and your friends, to be precise, your friends. Do you know what you've done? You have written the committee of inquiry of the Greek Parliament in the oldest of your shoes, violating fundamental principles, not only of the Rules of Procedure, but also of the existing legislation. Do you know why, Mr. Economou? Why have you never sent these crucial documents for the functioning of the committee of inquiry and you have to apologise personally, Mr Economou, now, when you are taking the floor again, because you have not even sent today to the committee of inquiry for these critical documents. Why do you hide them? We know. Because you're guilty. But, Mr Economou, if you think that you will also be guilty, but you will succeed in not imposing on you the penalties that the Greek people foresee for this, you are very foolish. And finally, Mr. Economou. We will not ask you whether Mr Mitsotakis knew, because we do not tolerate our intelligence to underestimate nor the intelligence of the Greek people. Because we know very well that Mr Mitsotakis has known the study Tsiodra since May and also, we know very well that consciously he lied from the Step of the House that he was supposedly not in a study to prove that evacuating a citizen outside the ICM does not increase the chances of ending, compared to any other person. You would have to, Mr. Economou, after two years of pandemic and so much money that you have thrown into the basket of useless people in scandals, in direct commissions dark, to have made sure that at least you fought to increase and shield the National Health System. What I am saying, Mr Economou, is a phrase that we have been saying monotonous since the morning and Alexis Tsipras has started from Brussels. Any other government in the favoured world, in the developed world that would have been faced with this shocking revelation of the Chiodra study, would have already resigned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u512	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u513	Thank you. But this cannot continue. You should know that. You understand that Members should also speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Ragossi, I'm overcoming your threats. We've been used to it lately. As I also transcend your findings of reality. You have given up both reality and responsibility for months now. People have understood that. Anyone who wants to talk about reality has to talk to specific things, concrete elements of the most difficult, of the most marginal, and even the rest about development, society, education, education, urban transport, the rule of law. And what happened to health, Mr Ragosisi, the citizens know that, the health workers know that, the Greek society monitors it. However, whoever has divorced with reality and responsibility, and who has decided alone throughout Europe to oppose the pandemic, to opposition to slander and distortion, obviously cannot stand up to this debate. In this context are all your approaches and locations. From there on the government has spoken only with truth, with responsibility and mainly focused on one single thing. In the hard work every day, complex efforts for a balanced strategy, to lead us to have society and economy open, to increase vaccination coverage, to continue to strengthen the National Health System, to make difficult, brave decisions against which we were not all together. Not all of us were together in mandatory sixty vaccination and over. We were not all together in compulsory health vaccination. We weren't even together in the strict fines we voted on for fake certificates. We weren't all together when we voted sanctions for parents who keep their children away from schools. And are you going to talk about reality and responsibility for self-evident? We weren't all together, but that's not the point. We continue our efforts to deal with pandemic in order to save as many human lives as possible. From there on, Mrs Giannakopoulou, what I said this morning is the only and essential truth. No study has ever been given to the Prime Minister and to any of his partners at the Maximos Mansion. I told you that what the study says is things that have often emerged in the public debate, things that the Prime Minister himself has raised. For example, the fact that there is an imbalance between the quality of the health system in the region and Attica has been said by the Prime Minister himself in an interview with Mr. Papachela about "Kathemerini", he has said so at the health conference that the "PRO THEMA" did, making suggestions when part of the political world was against us and against the logic of the reconstruction of the National Health System. The fact that people are being evacuated outside intensive care units is that it is necessary to incorporate it until beds are found to go to the ICUs. It is obvious that there is a great deal of effort and a great struggle in the National Health System. All the rest are things that are in the direction of science working. We, from the first moment on, have chosen to leave out the science and scientists, who have a very substantial and great contribution to dealing with pandemic all this time, from political confrontation. We never went to undermine their role. We are at battletime together with science, together with society to do and achieve what we can best to save as many human lives as we can, increase vaccination coverage and move on by restraining pandemic and "Omicon", but as much as we can to keep society and the country open and save as many human lives as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u515	Something about the examination papers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u517	Mrs. Giannakopoulou and Mr. Ragosi, I would like to ask you, because if we keep going like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u518	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I left something unanswered. As you know, there is an institutional way of communicating with the Committee of Inquiry on the basis of what the Bureau requests. We have beenhaved in this very process, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u519	Twice have been requested and you haven't sent them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u520	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u522	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u523	Ms. Giannakopoulou, I'll give you the floor. But I want you to know that this procedure is costly and leaves Members behind. Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Pafilis and Mr Raguss will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u524	Do the Parliamentary Representatives have secondary dates? It's not the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Philly, they have the capacity to withstand tolerance, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u526	Minister, yesterday in a central news release, Professor Lytras said specifically...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u527	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u528	No, you can't. The Bureau will tell you if you can. The Rules of Procedure do not say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u529	So yesterday, Minister, Professor Lytras said in a central news report, as was said, that the study in question was notified to the decision-makers. It is not possible, therefore, to state that the study had not been notified to Maximos. I would ask you to put yourself on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u530	Mr Pafilis now has the floor, and then Mr Raguss. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I explained yesterday, and Mr Pafilis was here, the possibilities that Parliamentary representatives have under the Rules of Procedure. There was tolerance to every procedure. Yesterday we had Mr Skourletis, and today we have Mr Ragosi, Mrs Giannakopoulou. And Mr. Paphis was here. Unfortunately, there has been agreement on tolerance from the Bureau for parliamentary representatives, which has to do with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u531	Secondary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u532	Mr Philie, rather than messing with the Bureau, it is important that the parties decide what they will do with the parliamentary representatives, because you will soon be shouting at the parties respectively, because we do not allow them to speak. You're welcome, Mr. Paphie. Yesterday you spoke ten minutes on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, first I will talk about the procedure for people to know. At noon we agreed in the Conference of Presidents and before in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that this situation is first out of order. Where does the Rules of Procedure say that whoever talks next will give the floor? Because here we are talking about specific things. Secondly, where does the Rules of Procedure say that a party can have three parliamentary representatives and change them the same day? Nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u534	Only to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u535	Don't be in a hurry. In my village they say: "Let you slaughter it and then you suck it." Therefore, because we have been told that the parliamentary representative is the privilege of small parties, we believe that what we have to say will be said by our speakers and, where they have to answer to ministers, they will respond, even if they are later. What, though, is going on today? Whatever yesterday. You tell us what Rule of the Rules of Procedure says that any minister who speaks will stand up for the parliamentary representatives and will comment and place themselves and have a second language. What did we say at noon? That this has to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u536	Mr. Philie, listen to me, because we know from tricks. We've also done study sessions and workshops. But these are tricks, three parliamentary representatives in one day. How can it be? Let's do it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u537	Mr Pafile, you know it's not about the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u538	We therefore say that we agree on a procedure which cannot continue because the speakers are cut off. And we now have the Change Movement and SYRIZA and therefore the New Democracy should respond or respond to every Minister. How many ministers are you, Mr. Stakoura? You're forty? I don't remember. I've lost the account. If the parliamentary representatives come out to every minister and talk on average - and I say it low - five minutes, it is half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u539	Not even a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u540	Look, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, relax. The young man is good, but he wants a measure. I'm telling you as advice. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I say, then, that the MPs will come out and start grumbling because you cut them off the time and people will be right. I'm not saying. Who's cutting their time, though? Their parties. Therefore, if they want to protest, they should protest at their parties. But I'm telling you this. We're pitiful and you know it. And I'm saying it personally. I may speak twenty minutes, but I speak once. The others speak ten minutes, but the total is thirty-five-forty minutes. So if this process continues, I tell you tomorrow as soon as the Minister speaks, I will ask for the floor. And I call on the other parliamentary representatives to do the same, so that we can see what is going to happen at the end of the day. But, and I'm done with it, it's all right. She's fine. We have a confrontation of parties moving in the same line. Can I tell you something? Collect one day without publicity and find them. You are all with capitalist development, all of you are with the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u541	You guys have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u542	Don't rush and don't be... I don't know what his woman is like, but don't be defensive. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Here, we're shaking. So sit down one day, make a meeting, find out who, who, where, because you are, in fact, fighting who will manage the barbarity we are living in today. Let the Greek people know. The third memorandum, you all voted together. That's what's happening today. On the development road, which is a capitalist road, which has laws, the New Democracy can say it because it is authentic, the others may try to soften it up, but they actually agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u543	...with the show...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u544	Do you disagree and yell, Mrs. Fotio? Do you disagree with the development plan? You don't disagree. But you don't tell the people what conditions the Recovery Fund places on it. Are you coming and voting against some laws hypothetically?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u545	You've spoken more than anyone. Don't blame what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u546	It hurts! I'll end up because I'm saying this. Don't be afraid. That's what we'll talk about from the Step. We'll see you. We're not hiding. Why are you doing this? These fights, in our view, are fake fights. They're like the little kids who do, "You took my pod, I took your boulder." But everyone's playing the volcano. That's the fights. You are trying to create a virtual confrontation, hiding the essential problems and dead ends of the system itself. And that's what you're going through.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u547	...question...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u548	What question? Are you kidding us? Ten hours everyone talks and you tell us why we asked for the floor. What are you telling us? You have changed three parliamentary representatives in one day. Where's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u549	Change, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u550	You tell us, Mr President, why you are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u551	We, Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u552	Don't answer me when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u553	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u554	So I say that either this game stops - because it's a game - or we're all going in. And if we're all going in, nobody's gonna talk later. That's what's gonna happen. And we have equal rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. I would like to say on the issue of changing the three parliamentary representatives from SYRIZA that the Bureau does not designate the parliamentary representatives. Each party shall designate its parliamentary representatives. I can't judge...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u556	Every morning he submits every party who is a Parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u557	Mr Pafile, you know that it has the potential to change for a number of reasons. I have an opinion, but unfortunately I do not want to say whether it is right or not. It has no value.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u558	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u559	Mr. Ragossi, please let's get this over with, let's close it down. Mrs. Dunya's waiting for her to speak. We have to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u560	You are right and you are right and colleagues who are protesting. Members must not be abused by parliamentarians. We're totally in agreement. But be careful. Mr Pafilis is not right at all, because this procedure which Mr Pafile is now denounced is an established procedure, at least as I remember, at least this parliamentary term. Every time there is a budget and there is a Minister's intervention, there is this tolerance from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u561	No, it's not like that. There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u562	And, exceptionally, for the first time, the process of seconds has now been initiated. Exceptionally, Mr Pafilis, the day before Mr Mitsotakis gave Mr Tsipras the opportunity to quantify, but that is not the case. In any case, we fully agree. Obviously, Mr. Paphie, you can use it, too, and if you want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u563	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u564	But why do you call it a threat? Has anyone forbid you? Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u565	Do not engage in procedural proceedings. Go ahead, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u566	The substance is one thing and I would not use this extraordinary occasion if it were not a very crucial issue which is not just ours, it is also Parliament. I mean the matter with the Committee of Inquiry. Mr. Economou, you said that there is an institutional procedure for the communication of the government with the Committee of Inquiry. Twice in writing the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry has asked you to send this correspondence on behalf of the entire committee of inquiry and you are hiding it. Twice you have received such a document in your hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u567	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u568	Mr. Bukouros has the floor and we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u569	On the substance of the questions concerning the Committee of Inquiry, etc. The Minister will answer Mr. Economou. Mr President, you certainly do not designate the parliamentary representatives. But you share the time under the Rules of Procedure. What's happened here today? Something I pointed out at the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u570	Mr. Paphie, Mr. Ragosi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u571	We're sorting out a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u572	Solve it out, not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u573	Mr President, since this morning I have pointed out with emphasis that SYRIZA, with an abuse, has changed the parliamentary representatives. This morning was Mr. Skourletis asking questions to all the ministers who spoke. Mr. Friend, then Mr. Ragus, and perhaps by night Mr. Chakalotos will come. If they speak four, five times, really, there is a serious problem. I should like to point out, Mr President, that there is certainly the Conference of Presidents where you said that every day the parliamentary representative of each party will speak twice from three minutes and once in four minutes. This has been circumvented today and was circumvented yesterday. And why is that? It's no accident. It's the choice of Officer Opposition. As the budget figures do not come out, to create impressions, one invokes a scientific study, one inspecting the work of the committee of inquiry in another Chamber and Mr. It has been thrown away in an impression struggle, because Parliament's top debate, which is the budget, really shows the Greek people that despite the difficulties, the pandemic, the energy crisis, the country is moving forward, it is moving on the path of development. As long as they cannot confront themselves there, they attempt to confront other issues of topicality. So the Bureau, in our view, has the responsibility of the top debate of the year to keep the debate within the budget and everything will pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u574	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for a minute, please, and we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Giannakopoulou, I'm not coming back. We said what we had to say. What I would like to say, however, is that the government has never come to any public confrontation with any of the scientists. It's our job to focus on dealing with pandemic. And if one thing is to keep - not us, every nomadic citizen and every responsible person - from what the scientific study says, to the extent that we can assess it, because we are not experts, it is one that if we had more vaccination coverage, we would have fewer invasions and we would have fewer deaths. That's the reality. And against this responsibility for each of us to weigh their attitudes over the past period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u576	I have been happy to invite Mrs. Dunya from New Democracy to Step in New Democracy for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u577	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the last twenty-nine months in which the New Democracy has been in the governance of the country, a great many important steps have been taken. Despite the major obstacles the government has been called upon to face, it has managed to balance successfully between the protection of public health and the support of the economy. By putting in place extensive measures of more than EUR 43 billion for the period 2020 - 2022, it has shaped the third largest economic support package in the Eurozone after Italy and Germany and the fourth world, according to a recent report from the European Stability Mechanism. Among other things, the State took over the remuneration of those who could not work, covered the business rent, suspended the company’s debts and offered them through the repayable advance of favourable financing. At the same time, in time - a record was reinforced by the National Health System and exemplaryly built the programme "Foodness". That is why I find it regrettable that the Chief of Officers of the Anti-Population Officers has been devising and abstracting the scientific study of Professor Sotiris Tsiodra who recently saw the light of publicity, consciously concealing that within less than two years the IFs have been more than doubled and thousands of sanitaries have been recruited in the system, that today all the public and private hospitals are at the disposal of the ESS, but also the fact that during the period 2015- 2019 there were no pandemic there were days that we had and ninety anticipated in IFs. A scientific study should not, in my opinion, be a product of political controversy. The country needs a single front to deal with pandemic. We should all be together. Ladies and gentlemen, although the conditions that we have experienced and, unfortunately, we are experiencing at the level of the health crisis are inconsistent, we have regained our lost national credibility, we have been orbited and started to lead internationally. Exports have escalated, the annual growth in investment has exceeded 18%, and it has been impressive to attract foreign colossal business to Greece, such as "PFIZER", "MICROSOT" and "AMAZON". In addition to all this, the taxes, taxes and social security contributions of citizens and businesses have been reduced. The tax relief increased while the solidarity levy was suspended in the private sector by the end of 2022. The programme for subsidising household loans was extended, as well as the programme for 'Cooperation'. According to the European Central Bank, available income in Greece increased by 7.3% in the second quarter of 2021. This is the greatest increase in income available throughout Europe. And all that with unemployment having fallen by more than three points compared to September 2020. It was not until a few days ago when ELSTAT confirmed the increase in our Gross Domestic Product by 13.4% in the third quarter of 2021. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the highest performance in Europe, and it is a decade-old record for Greece. If all of this is not proof of a successful government policy, I wonder what it would be. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is aimed at dynamic growth throughout the country. The main issue is the attraction of investment and the creation of well-paid new jobs, with emphasis on green growth. It is based on a state that leaps to digital transformation by drastically limiting bureaucracy and which, as its main concern, has to be next to the citizen. In this context, it places particular emphasis on the policies to support our most vulnerable fellow citizens, contrary to the policy of overtaxing the SYRIZA government. I would remind you that in the four and a half years that SYRIZA has imposed twenty-nine new taxes. The New Democracy is constantly seeking to alleviate citizens from unfavourable budgetary obligations. The 2022 budget, like the previous one, does not only include new taxes but also provides for additional reductions in taxes and measures to support entrepreneurship, households and the new generation. Let me focus on some of its points, which I stand out for, such as the implementation of the 'First Union' programme, which concerns young people from eighteen to twenty-nine years without previous work experience. I also find it very important to tackle unemployment to extend the programme of 100 000 new jobs with an additional 50 000 jobs. Extremely positive is the increase in the funding of the Agency for Pre-Accession and Social Solidarity for Family Benefits, the benefits of our fellow citizens with disabilities and school meals. I am pleased to see and to see the promotion through the Fund for the Recovery of Modern Social Protection Tools such as the Disability Card, the staff assistant for disabled people, the creation of fifty thousand jobs in nurseries and others. There is no doubt that working mothers are helping too much initiatives such as the co-financed 'Dadads of the neighborhood' programme. At the same time, it is also extremely helpful for all citizens to abolish, which has already been in force since 1 October, the tax on parental benefits and donations of up to EUR 800,000. In the same climate of citizens' relief, there is also a move to reduce the fee for mobile subscribers to 10%, but also to abolish it for young people up to twenty-nine years. Finally, as our country and the whole of the planet are being called upon to reduce its environmental footprint, the budget provides for an increased deduction for expenditure relating to the 'green' economy, energy and digitalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the new state budget, growth is estimated for 2021 to 6.9% of GDP and for 2022 to 4.5%. In other words, we will have a cumulative growth in the years 2021, 2022, which will reach 11.7%, which means that in 2022, not only will the level of the domestic product of 2019 be restored, but it will increase even further. Total expenditure will be increased in relation to the corresponding forecast in the medium term in 2022 - 2025 due to expenditure in response to the health crisis and to the receipts of armaments programmes. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] A small point here on health expenditure, which has been a great deal of talk about in Communism. Health funds are not simply falling, but they are increased compared with 2021. In particular, regular expenses for the Ministry of Health are increased by EUR 250 million. As is evident, ladies and gentlemen, the government's economic policy pursued since the beginning of the crisis and earlier, with tax reductions and the promotion of reforms, has effectively supported the country's economy in this difficult period and laid the foundations for high and sustainable growth in the years to come. I am sure that with the new state budget we will not only be able to recover our losses, but we will achieve even higher economic performance in relation to the past pandemic. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u578	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Nikolaos Friends. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u579	Thank you, Mr President. In today's debate on the budget, the pandemic's shadow falls very heavily. Nearly twenty thousand dead, the ESS that has been bent over a year despite the heroism of doctors and nurses, the society that has been tired and a future prick as we wait for the 'Omicon'. What does the Tsiodra - Lytra report mean that it was published yesterday? It confirms that the government did not believe in the battle against pandemic because it considered it to be a brief parentheses. The Prime Minister is accountable for the fact that from this Stephen we are told that it is the same thing that someone is being hospitalized in and out of the ICU. This is an arbitrary crisis, one - to say it nonsense, which violates common sense and social experience. Indeed, following the publication of the Tsiodra - Lytra report, it is confirmed that nonsense is, unfortunately, cynicism. Why did the Prime Minister claim this? Because the government was convinced that society, feared by the pandemic, hypnotized by the controlled information, will not ask for responsibility. cynicism and authoritarianism, the main features of the power system. The Prime Minister must apologise to this Vima, apologise to the thousands of victims and their relatives and to all Greek citizens. Otherwise, it will sink into political disrepute. Worst of all, it will help to despair people's social behaviours of suspicion against the public interest and politics, and it will premium anti-political choices where far-right fishes. I can't believe there are forty-seven locked-up IDs waiting for the surnames. That's what I said from the first moment. Of course, however, it must be investigated if the surnames are, we have a priority over the anonymous ICU beds and care, because that creates a huge moral problem. What are we going to answer the parents of the fourteen-year-old girl in Lamia who erased the emergency services away from the ICU, and was known to be coronary? What are we going to respond to the families of our thousands of fellow citizens who died in the province of an ICU where God would make them or intrude in simple beds with 87% more chance of losing their lives, as the Tsiodra - Lytra report says? The search for political responsibilities for the tragedy we live in is not a political blow. That's what New Democracy knows about with the drama in Matty. I have heard colleagues from the New Democracy invoking my statement that we are not oppositioning deaths. Indeed, we do not speculate politically with deaths. We are sad, angry, responsible and demanding a change of policy that the New Democracy cannot serve. I would remind you that at critical moments in the pandemic, the President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras has proposed a consensus without finding a response, and it is criminal to rule a government not apologizing for omissions and dogmatisms that have launched the number of deaths. Greece has the sad record of deaths per inhabitants throughout Western Europe in recent weeks. But what are we talking about? Two days and even the Prime Minister would ask for an apology, which, of course, should have been accompanied by a change of attitude to the pandemic and, above all, by acknowledging the need for the reconstruction of the ESS, which the New Democracy cannot and does not want to do. The strengthening of the ESS, even with twenty days' delay, we need it as we see the pandemic riding with "Omicon" and the WHO has warned us that other pandemics will come. Inside the pandemic social behaviors are developed that will leave their negative print. Individualism, compromise with the routine of unjust deaths, the perception of an insidious competition with the doctrine of "my life", the subjection of scientific reason to the purposes of power, unorthodoxism with covertness, such as religious liberation or headlines, such as nationalism, disperse, contaminate the social body. And it is the responsibility of politics, especially the Left and the forces of progress, to prevent this epidemic by proposing alternative public policies on health, social state, rights, the environment and, of course, the economy. No one's safe if not everyone's safe. We were shown by Africa's history with the low vaccination. The "Omicon" mutation didn't stop there, passed the sea, passed the walls, went up. There are no walls, as there are no walls in the problem of refugee flows. We need joint management in a humanitarian and decisive way of these problems. In this sense, we are at a peak point. The pandemic and the climate crisis reveal that neoliberal capitalism cannot serve the survival of society. Society is confusing, it's looking for a point of balance. It will be found either in the extreme neoliberal 'Alt Right' or in the progressive left and ecological overrun. The radical Left and its political and social alliances can represent a large social majority. And this is the part of political developments, which will soon plunge down the unscrupulous governmental malady and its authoritarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget continues to under-fund education. Europe-wide average is 5% of GDP and 3% of Greece. The Minister triumphants, because she has increased, says, for 200 million this year, the budget for education, when GDP is growing at the same time. This huge divergence, I am embodied in the government's policy of declining public education and strengthening the major private interests in the field of education. Even in primary schools, it is indicated that donor resources are found and this model is combined with the dissolution of the school club and the introduction of an evaluation leading to multi-speed schools. Teachers are trapped in the offices, in bureaucratic "either evaluating" jobs, and not in the classes, where they are, their natural space. School managers are turning into managers. Universities are looking for the manager - outdated dogmas of the Thacher era appearing as innovative ideas. In universities, funding is further reduced by 20%, while research is being made subject to the temporary needs of companies. The necessary interconnection of the university should serve to transform the economy towards tackling social needs, as well as overcoming social inequalities, especially within the pandemic, have been launched. Schools operate in the unprecedented pandemic conditions, where inequalities have reaped - and I refer to learning, but, above all, to the psychosocial consequences of children's lives. Teachers fight defenseless and under government autocracy to find out again what a student and school means. Children have to face statism and irreversible competition. The matter bank in high school, the push of 15-year-old students in the former apprenticeship and minor work, the reduction of the number of admissions to universities, build new class barriers, alongside barriers to social economic crisis and the dissolution of family income. The government wants cheap education because it promotes cheap growth. A growth with profits for the few, with poorly paid and degraded jobs for many. A development that will serve the model that has led us to bankruptcy. The Government does not bring productive reconstruction with well-paid jobs, which will produce products with added value. Behind the growing decline in unemployment - we have heard it - there are half the jobs, precariousness and poor workers. This is the future you want for our country. We need public policies, a school of quality and equality. Fourteen-year-old compulsory school, including pre-school age, appointments of twenty-thousand teachers in four years and similar training programs, doubling the number of university instead of university police. We want a school house program, as 40% of school buildings are fifty years old and a new student restaurant project is being built. It is possible from the Recovery Fund to finance all these projects. But not give the money to the large multinational corporations and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we have referred earlier to the issue of pandemic and schools. We are calling for Parliament's Committee on Graphic Affairs to meet with the Finance Ministers and experts to discuss what is going to happen, with a view to the 'Omicon' mutation. Eighty thousand children have been sick from November 1st to today. Unfortunately, we have once again received the government's refusal to enter into this debate within the House. We also know that it is necessary to intensify efforts to vaccinate young children. It's really necessary. We also consider that the Data Protection Authority that has raised a major problem, and in fact distance education with 'CISCO', is in fact banned, it has been despised by the Ministry and we have heard the Minister's response to this issue - provocative, ambiguity, I would say. The argument that SYRIZA did not vote for the criminalisation of parents because they do not send their children to school - Fifty, sixty children all and all - is misleading. We have asked for there to be no penalty of two years, as the government proposes, but a fine, as the Criminal Code said. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the budget in the name of the future and youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u580	Thank you, too. Mr. Manosos Voloudakis from New Democracy has the floor and immediately thereafter, Mrs. Theano Fotou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u581	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just experienced sad scenes in this Chamber. Scenes that this Chamber has had to live since the Golden Dawn was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u582	And your Macedonians did the same. They called us traitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u583	It was a positive reaction from the Chief of Staff Response, and the total condemnation of such attitudes was positive. I hope that from now on you will be completely faced with any closure of an eye in such places. Because you know, it's not only the screams of this kind that close the eye to the public, which used to lead to these sad phenomena in Greek political life, it's also the closure of the eye to the invaders. And I say that, so that everyone concerned can take this into account. I just heard Mr. Friend saying capitalism won't survive. The system of free market and parliamentary democracy - what you call capitalism, Mr Phile - not only survives and rises in the world. What has not survived is socialism - except for North Korea. You need to see the contradiction in what you say, with reality. Let me come to the budget now. The debates on budgets everywhere in the world, over the last two years, have focused on dealing with pandemic, obviously. Same to us. In our homeland it is easy to see what has happened over the last two years. It is simple to summarize it is illustrated in the course of today's and appreciated of the Gross Domestic Product. The increase of Gross Domestic Product in 2021 and 2022 will outweigh 2020 losses. In fact, it will be 1.7 percentage points higher than the reduction we had in 2020. How did that happen? How was the recovery of the Greek economy so quickly and its entry into a development path? It was through a colossal programme to strengthen the real economy with 43 billion euros. A programme that brings us to the third place in the European Union to spending on combating the consequences of the pandemic. Third place in Europe and fourth in the world, according to the figures submitted by the Minister of Finance to the Committee on Economic Affairs. Greece, a country that entered the pandemic crisis with the burden of its well-known public debt, has come to be the fourth to spending in the world. I repeat, because this shows and in what political deadlock those who are saying today that you should be spending more on it, that you should have a more forward programme. And this campaign was conducted to address the consequences of the pandemic, while at the same time the objectives for which the current reform of the tax reduction targets were adopted by the Greek people were to be met by the Greek people, while at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the critical policy areas with the reduction of expenditure. Let me just mention concise taxes: in the HPAI medium-term reduction of 22%, in the tax rate from 22% to 9% for the first step, in the reduction of the advance payment of income tax - ask free professionals what this means - and in the reduction of insurance contributions to the private sector by three units. While all this is happening, there is a programme of reform and building infrastructure in the Greek economy that really prepares the country for the next day. I will mention only the BOAK here as the most characteristic example of Crete's greatest shortage that for the first time enters a realisation orbit. Does that mean everything's going well and we have nothing to worry about? Of course not. There is at the moment the major threat of inflation, which is accelerating around the world. In Greece, at a rate lower than Europeans: 4.1% the average of the Eurozone and 2.8% of us. Nevertheless, we have reason to be more concerned by our partners and that is because in our home country some branches have a strong oligopolistic character. In some cases these oligopolises lead to prices in Greece higher than those on our partners' markets. The most important examples, but not alone, are the electricity and telecommunications market. Electricity was systematically more expensive than Europe's average and before the energy crisis, before the explosion of gas prices. And of course this situation is getting worse today. This drastically affects the welfare of households and the competitiveness of businesses, particularly affecting processing, the sector that competes internationally and the sector from which we expect new quality jobs. The government was right to react with EUR 1 billion of consumer aid to deal with the consequences of the crisis. We must not allow inflated electricity accounts to suffocate the current growth of the Greek economy, now showing substantial potential. I was very pleased to hear the Prime Minister today announcing new relief measures from the current and fuel increases, with special reference to farmers. Farmers and farmers are affected by increases in fuel and electricity prices, because they have limited capacity, because of their market structure, to spend increased costs on their products. We must pay particular attention to farmers in the mountains, which are in addition to the extreme increases in feed prices and are forced to operate this year and with unpleasant surprises about their support programmes. However, the essential response to the problem of the energy crisis cannot be subsidies, exceptional aids. And it is, in fact, regrettable that the representative of the Officership is exhausted in it. It gives the government and gives enough for the first time, it says 'give more', the easiest for a opposition without saying either how or how the most serious problem will be solved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President. The question of oligopoly in electricity and its costs for the Greek economy must be addressed at its root. The relevant bodies, the RAE and the Competition Committee - both have competence - must check the conditions of competition in this market. The Minister for Development brings to Parliament a draft law on competition with new provisions. In practice, however, we must also see how the law is implemented. The provisions of the electricity market code, which have enabled market manipulation, must also be reviewed. Do not rush to rejoice, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with these reports, because this oligopoly kept and blossomed in your day too. In fact, the codes to which I referred that allow market manipulation to be carried out in the largest part of the market have been shaped for your days. Recapitalising, we faced the economic consequences of the pandemic in the last two years in an effective way, while serving all policies for which the Greek people in 2019 voted on New Democracy. The 2022 budget goes on in the same spirit with even greater systematicity, which is why I obviously am voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Mrs Theano Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u585	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u586	Wait a minute, Mr. Philly. Why do you want him? For comment? There's no comment now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u587	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u588	Listen. We have said that in the Conference of Presidents. We will stop this from intervening for every minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u589	Staff. I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u590	Listen, this can't be done. After all, at the moment, Parliament's representative from you is Mr Raguss.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u591	Something's been said about me. May I? My colleague has done something to me that I have not said inadvertently. The pandemic and the climate crisis reveal that neoliberal capitalism cannot serve the survival of society. This is a global conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u592	Okay, that's not personal. It's a placement. Just stop that. It is a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents that the parliamentary representatives cannot be interrupted at all times, except that it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and in particular is not provided for in the budget. Mrs Fotiou has the floor, and immediately after the speech, the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection will take Mr Christos Stylianides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the third anti-social budget of the Mitsotakis Government, which cuts the spending on health, education, insurance and welfare by 1.7 billion. I think he'll be your last. Back to normality, it promises with a cut of 820 million from the ESS that collapses at the price of thousands of dead. 38% would have escaped, says the Tsirda-Lytras report since May, if we had a powerful NSA, as if we had more ITH. Because the tubes outside the ICU die at 87%. The same report. Ten days ago the Prime Minister assured us in the House that there is no difference between impounded outside or within ICU. What is happening now with the Prime Minister of the country asking us for studies when he had the study in his drawer? He has to answer. There's a huge issue. The budget, however, does not respond to the citizens' extreme needs either. Today, at least one out of three citizens are threatened with health and energy poverty and material deprivation, that is, they are deprived of heating, electricity, basic food and health services. Mid-stage and small and medium-sized enterprises are becoming poorer again. These layers were destroyed in 2015, when the New Democracy with Minister at the time gave us, during ELSTAT, eight hundred thousands of citizens who had moved from the middle layers to the poor, that is, one in five. In 2019 with SYRIZA, six hundred thousand of them had moved back to the middle layers. These days in Parliament, the Government and the Members of the New Democracy are trying to explain to us that we are living in a paradise of prosperity, growth, increased incomes and bank deposits. Why don't you tell your districts? Why don't you tell the people who come out in your media, the gorgeous, and desperate people say that their monthly incomes end in two or three weeks, who see constant appreciation in food and start not buying the necessary income anymore? Did any of you hear that? That they don't buy food that they need, that they can't pay for electricity and heating oil? According to ELSTAT, we have revalued 15 basic goods. During EUROSTAT, we are in the third worst position in energy poverty, 12% against an average of 8%. Could we have avoided this situation? Yes, we say with the amendments we tabled three times for vulnerable groups free of charge, reconnection of cut streams, settlement of debts. The European Parliament said so, precisely in spring. You didn't do anything. And for the energy crisis, a reduction in the VAT on oil which would reduce the cost and the minimum wage to EUR 800. You're rejecting everything. But today you will be voting on a budget which reduces welfare by 350 million, 4,014 billion in 2021, 3,71 billion today, for 2022, while you have had to increase its funds bravely, as we have increased it every time, for four consecutive budgets. They are critical hours, and you have reduced within the year with various tricks even the minimum guaranteed income, i.e. the former CRL. Taratazum for the minimum guaranteed income, you put it in the Constitution. Aren't you telling me, with 200 euros living a man today? Answer me at last, let me understand. It is shameful to zero the "GEOFYRA" programme for borrowers affected by the pandemic in 2022, deducting 241 million. It is shameful to predict, on the contrary, that you will be applying the Banking Code this year in 2022, as the 100 million that you have put into the budget reveals, for those who will lose their home and be forced to pay rent to stay in it. But more shame is your skeptics about the accessibility of the disabled and the issues for the disabled, at the same time that you are cutting off from hundreds of seventy thousand uninsured disabled drugs, treatments, exams, abolishing the law of SYRIZA and obliging them today to go to public hospitals in the middle of COVID to write them down. Is hospitals accessible for this work, Ministers? Are they accessible to the disabled? It's embarrassing what you're doing. They are the same cripples that you now cut them 53 million in the 2022 budget than we delivered it to you in 2019. And is the "holy-healthy" Prime Minister coming out and giving them a 250 euro gift when, twice now, in corresponding periods, you refused the second, double gift, disability allowance, Christmas? It's hypocrisy to talk about child protection. This year, for the first time since 2016, we have arrived Christmas and you have not given one of the school meals. One hundred and eighty-five thousand we delivered you. Why? With the fiasco of the competition you have made by favouring both sides of industry. Otherwise, you had the Prime Minister declare war on child obesity! What else can I say? Double at least the school meals. You left for the second year eighty thousand children with full files outside kindergartens and CIFs, when in 2019 we gave all the voucher children who had a full file. The workers and nursery air-speakers for the "BYWILL" programme have been celebrated, and if you were told that it is harmful to children. But they never imagined that they would be paid and unpaid since September and that the small- and medium-sized businesses in the nursery were up and resorted to strikes to pay two months of the four! That's what you did. Nor did you imagine that you would use the money of the Recovery and Resistance Fund to undermine the nursery stations with the "Neighbourhood dads" and separate babies from those that their mothers will get more money to take to the nursery stations and less to those who will stay in the nannies. While child poverty and social exclusion are growing over the days of the New Democracy, you are being attracted because you kept the child's allowance, as we handed it over to you in 2019, i.e. 1.12 billion. It wants great courage to compare with SYRIZA, who received in 2015 from New Democracy with Minister Mitsotakis the child poverty and exclusion at 37.8% and reached 30.5% in 2019, with ELSTAT data. Already 2020 increased to 31%. In 2015, we received welfare at 780 million and reached it, with four continuous budget revisions at 3.35 billion, with a view to reaching the European average of 4%. You arrive, and on the basis of the medium-term, you keep it at 3.511 by 2025. You have allocated the smallest amounts from all the European Union countries for social protection from the Recovery Fund, only 1.5%. ECU 480 million for a total of ECU 32 billion. Welfare? It's bad luck in the country where you're in the government today. I believe that the conditions for anger and indignation are ripe to leave and come a progressive government with the body of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, which will implement a pro-active state for the social majority, with a new child's safety net, with the income of need, with increased benefits for the child, the disabled, the elderly and with free high-quality care services for all. We are voting against the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u594	Thank you very much. The Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection now has the floor, Mr Stylianides. And immediately afterwards, Mr. Constantine Maraveyas will be prepared from New Democracy. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u595	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the newly established Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection is taking part for the first time in the national budget. It is a ministry that was created to respond effectively to the major challenges of the climate crisis. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the climate crisis is a reality. Those who have tried for so many years to insist that the climate crisis is make news, have, fortunately, already escaped the political scene. It is a crisis that, unfortunately, is evolving at a high speed, at a glimpse of pace and is accepted by all serious scientists that we have been overtaken. He's overtaken us all, he's overtaken the whole planet as far as he's prepared for its consequences. It requires us to act immediately. It requires us to act now. The country's Prime Minister, understanding the messages of the times and reacting actively, decided to create this newly created Ministry of Civil Protection and Climate Crisis, adopting a very innovative and innovative approach. It has entrusted us with addressing these major consequences. The Ministry also operates complementaryly with the Ministry of Environment and Energy, as is the case in other developed countries, developed political systems. This initiative by the Prime Minister has indeed brought the attention of the international community, the international media in Glasgow, to the global climate conference COP26. This has indeed created a very important picture for the country, that it faces these problems with this innovative spirit. What is the priority of the new Ministry? The priority is to bridge the traditional approach to addressing and managing the risk, which so far, not only here but also pan-Europeanly, primarily focused on repressive action, which, as you know, is the responsibility of the Firehouse. This link to overall risk management is a major issue, a major challenge. It is a challenge for all the international standards of the United Nations, international organisations dealing with risk management and crisis management, and this is our great task. We must, on the basis of this data and the new parameter, integrate what we need into our policies and manage the risk with a new innovative view. Moreover, the conditions we live and live in, if you consider all the new weather that we live in. Even in the last few days, the names "BALOS", "ATHENA", "IANOS" are names that the citizen is fully associated with natural disaster and serious, unfortunately, consequences. This approach promotes through the creation of the new Ministry the holistic approach which places particular emphasis on three pillars. One is the known prevention. The second pillar is preparation-performance and the third pillar is durability. We have tried on the basis of this innovative approach to capture our priorities in the 2022 budget. The Ministry's budget is 534.021,000 euros. They're registered credits from the Ministry. It is true that a large proportion of this budget represents ruthless costs, with more importantly all workers' pay for the fire brigade. It is true that we would like to have a different percentage of the budget. It was also a basic position of the country's Prime Minister. Fortunately, however, in this case, there is a new programme, the 'AUGIS', aimed at upgrading the country's civil protection, with a key lever for European financial instruments, which will be the tool through which we will indeed be able to focus on prevention, preparation, preparedness and resilience. The aim of this excellent instrument, which is EUR 1.7 billion - it is about EUR 430 million from the Recovery Fund, EUR 714 million from the NSRF - as is called in Greece - and the rest from a loan from the European Investment Bank. The aim, therefore, is to make use of this great project, this great project, of course, in cooperation with the other ministries, particularly the Ministry of the Environment, so that we can have concrete actions that enable us to strengthen our country's ability not only to act at the time of the emergency, but to prepare for the consequences of this emergency. At the same time, we are making use of an important research carried out with the technical assistance of the World Bank, with co-financing, particularly, of the European Union. This investigation unifies two directions. It presents financial opportunities together with planned and proposed actions, with the main aim of strengthening prevention, preparedness and resilience. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this great goal, which is a global objective, but with too many shortcomings and omissions - we are talking about Greece, a country of the European Union - is not everyone's assistance. It is a field where, in my personal view, there are no particular ideological differences. The response to this climate crisis cannot be achieved either by the government or by opposition or by the best ministry. We need the contribution of all the parties involved. And when I say 'all the parties involved', I get to the last citizen. That is why, basically, everyone's participation is the only way to get results from the beginning of the ministry. We have decided that we should all go together. And this need has led to an initiative aimed at national strategy, the initiative of a national dialogue, a dialogue that is open and aims at the greatest possible consensus. To conclude, so as not to violate time - I am a little maniac over time - I say that this national strategy that we will all end up together will be the country's road map to strengthen the country's resilience and adaptability. This strategy will develop and respond on the basis of differentiation of data, but also to any change in the needs of the country. It is a procedure that cannot be fully anticipated in advance. It is naive to believe that this can, in fact, be the great challenge of the 21st century to determine it in advance. I invite everyone to this great effort. We are looking forward to the cooperation of the parliamentary parties. There have already been meetings with around all the parliamentary parties. But in this effort we need the country's excellent scientific community. We need to open the dialogue with all citizens, because that is the only way to learn from everyone. It is inevitable: In this effort there will also be some disagreements, but if these disagreements remain in a context of fertile dialogue, away from barren and sterile confrontations, I think we will come to a result that will also satisfy the citizen of this country, but above all it will work to reduce the effects of the climate crisis. We cannot stop natural disasters but at least ensure that human lives are not the victims of natural disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Maravegias from New Democracy has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr Vernardakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u597	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a new year is coming, bringing with it expectations of the Greek people, and these very expectations are coming to condense the budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in 2022. It is an economic plan for the future of the country, which does not just contain figures, but is a source of hope, because it is not just the framework of organised implementation of our policies for next year but a new optimistic perspective for the country. The 2022 budget is making the New Democracy's commitments for prosperity for all, through credible and serious government policies, responsible for the future of the country. And we are simply continuing the work assigned to us by the Greek people, facing not only the negative international juncture of the last two years but also an organised internal front of negatives, negatives of seriousness and responsibility, and among them, unfortunately, also of parties that continue to play with life, but also with the well-being of the citizens. Against this backwardness of the responsibilities, the government is constantly building a new Greece, moving in 2022 to three key pillars, in my opinion,: new reductions in taxes and insurance contributions, strengthening the social state and arming our national defence. I start with the most hopeful message that came from Deutsche Bank the day before yesterday, the estimate for growth of 8.7% in Greece, which brings us second in Europe, but also higher than the average of growth in the United States, Japan and China in 2021. And I note that this is above the European Commission's estimates of 7.1%, but even of the government itself, which moderately gives growth rate of 6.9% for 2021. This is also a sign of the seriousness of our financial staff, which is why he enjoys the confidence of our international partners, but above all of the Greek taxpayers. And that is because we have now made the time of SYRIZA's tax-paying a distant evil past. After all, this budget, like the previous ones in the New Democracy, does not include any new taxes at all. On the contrary, it brings additional tax relief, such as the permanentisation of the abolition of the tax on donations and parental benefits, which was first applied in October, the reduction of legal persons' tax from 24% to 22%, the increased tax deduction for activities in the green economy, energy and digitalisation, the return of excise duty on diesel to young farmers and those taking part in cooperative schemes, the consolidation of the reduction, which started from 1 October, of VAT on feed from 13% to 6% and brave tax incentives for combinations and cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises, including income tax deductions. On the basis of these measures, as well as of the number of reforms in a number of sectors of the state and the economy, the budget for 2022 provides for a continuing growth of 4.5%. This is precisely the country's successive developmental leaps in 2022 and the double rise in the minimum wage in the private sector, which the Prime Minister himself has already announced. On an international level now, 2021 was a very important year for the Greek economy, as the reputable Greek state was further upgraded, bringing us closer to the strategic goal of New Democracy to return the country to the investment stage by 2023. At the same time, consultations with the European Union were concluded in Greece in the next few years, over 100 billion from the ESDP, the Recovery Fund and the new CFP. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is consistently and seriously implementing our election commitments, just like the two previous New Democracy budgets. For example, I mention the extension to 2022 labour-enhancing measures, the exemption from the special solidarity levy, the reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions to the private sector, and the extension of the current 100 thousand new jobs of the OAS, with the inclusion of another fifty thousand jobs in 2022. Already the New Democracy's development policies have worked. Unemployment fell significantly to 13% in the third quarter of 2021 and the Greek economy recovers faster than expected, leading to a growth rate of 4.5% in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, the positive financial results of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis are indeed undeniable. That is why we have seen during the debate on the budget for the opposition focusing on issues which are irrelevant, such as pandemic and so-called VIPI. On this occasion, I would like in the capacity of a medical officer to refer to both the published statistics and their interpretation by the Opposition. Today is the study Tsiodra - Lilitra as your great opposition paper. What is the truth that impressed you so much? What was new in this study that has taken you beyond the apparent time-consuming finding that the ICUs in the regional hospitals need support? When these happened during periods of regularity, can we believe that they would not even be the case today, at the time of the pandemic, despite the titanic effort that has been made? How can opposition project this extreme black-white image? For example, Mr. Tsipras told us that what he understood is that everyone who is being evacuated outside the ICM dies or almost all of them. So that is the scientific view of Mr Tsipras, obviously qualified in medical matters, but without saying the other half of the truth, which is mentioned in the same study. What was the gravity of these incidents? They would be more burdened by the movement itself to be treated in an intensive care unit for another hospital or another city. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what is the question, ladies and gentlemen, this study, when the Prime Minister himself said with great honesty that we need to see the deficit in the regional hospitals and reorder the health map? And then you denounced us. But for whoever did not understand, Mr. Friend commented on the opposition Tsipras: 'I'll see you all and then we'll see what we'll do as a government'. In other words, even within SYRIZA, executives who want to protect their seriousness reject the populist press opposition whatever Mr. Tsipras is and it is not just Mr. Philis that is such a strain. I think we should all establish a cross-party line between responsibility and irresponsibility somewhere. I was amazed, for example, that SYRIZA voted against, a few days ago, an amendment to tighten the sentences to negative parents who do not allow their children to go to school, while, in my special homeland, Magnesia, he intervened to control precisely this phenomenon that emerged on the occasion of the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u598	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u599	I sincerely hope that the new year will bring changes in everyone's thinking and shocks at least to the obvious. We in the New Democracy are voting in favour of the 2022 budget, because it implements many obvious, but also extremely necessary changes in the country for the benefit of many, for the protection of the whole society, for a secure and prosperous Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u600	Mr. Vernardakis has the floor and immediately after the Change Movement, Mr. Gokas. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u601	Thank you, Mr President. You will only allow me one comment to the honourable Member who spoke just now. What exactly has taken us from the Tsiodra-Lytra report? Nothing has dragged us into it at all. What has taken us into account is the Prime Minister's statement that those who die outside the ICM are equal to those who die within the ICM, that there is no difference. This, indeed, is to get you and anyway let's start over there, see exactly what's going on and the rest of you return them. Evidently there is populism rather than simply, if you like, this assumption. Now in terms of the budget, I think the critical budget was in 2021. The budget of 2022 is on the same track as the previous one. So, what's he doing? It does two things that the previous one has done very systematically and very coherently, it reduces expenditure on support for the economy, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting the concentration and concentration of capital and at the same time further reduces social spending on health, education, trying to serve a privatisation plan. This is the government's general political plan. It is characteristic that the already reduced expenditures of 2021 in relation to 2020 on the treatment of pandemic are almost depleted in this bill, as the health crisis as a whole appears to be ignored in the last year's budget. This project consistently moves in the strategy of capitalist restructuring established in the previous budget and acted as a coherent and central political project. The guidelines of the outdated Pissaridis reports, privatisation, the secondment of funds for the benefit of elites and these should now be added to the management of the resources of the Recovery Fund and their counterproductive anti-productive dispersion. But let us see some more specific remarks. A first concerns the structural problems of Greek capital. The continued increase in Greek exports in recent years cannot work forwardly for the Greek economy, on the one hand because of the lack of job creation, i.e. investment in variable capital, wages, and on the other hand because of a disproportionately small increase in the value of the products exported. The latter is dependent on the insufficient amount of fixed capital investment in the country. In terms of international competition this means a low average profit ratio compared with international capital, i.e. a low rate of return on Greek capital. This structural weakness of capital translates into a low competitiveness of Greek products. It is the problem of the country's position in international division of labour and is reflected in the trade balance deficit, since Greek exports depend on imports of raw materials, tools, machinery and equipment. The budget does not substantially provide for measures to tackle the structural problem of Greek markets in their competition. The maintenance of this situation, its institutionalisation through the budget, obviously serves parts of the capital, i.e. units, companies and parts of the capital, which are directly linked to the State and political management, and apparently someone assumes that it also has strong foundations within the Government of New Democracy. It is ultimately a political choice and planning of the government that promotes corresponding economic policies and, indirectly or indirectly, expressed in the budget we have seen from the New Democracy. It is obviously related, and above all, to the absence of a plan and policies for the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy, since the permanent doctrine is that growth is about self-regulation of markets and self-regulation of the attitude of competition, large capital or very large capital. Let us see some other parts of the budget. It estimates a modest increase in average nominal wage by 1.1, an increase which has already been evaporated by the large appreciations of basic types of living. It is unfair, it has a structure, i.e. taxly unfair, that provides for an additional revenue of 3.5 billion, of which 2.3 is from an increase in revenues from indirect taxes, which is the most unfair horizontal form of taxation, an increase of EUR 653 million from natural persons' taxes and an increase of approximately EUR 614 billion from tax on legal persons. It reduces by 1.7 billion social spending on welfare, support for the unemployed, funds for the LAGs and so on. For education which is very characteristic - it has already been mentioned. They are characterized by stagnation, establishment of public credits for the coming years compared with previous years. As for the overall figures for the ordinary budget for education, these remain practically at the same level as for the previous year, and even slightly reduced. This is consistent with a strategy of contempt for social needs, a resurgence of the role of education as a mechanism for social mobility, a conscious class choice of depreciating public education and substituting it by private-sector schemes. Implementation of recruitment policies, resulting in the shrinking of teachers' bodies, the ageing, non-replacement of pensions, particularly in universities - this is very characteristic - will lead to a decline. Payroll costs account for 91.4% of the total amount, and indeed for GNIs, for universities, there is a reduction of 39 million in this budget. The educational system as infrastructure can no longer function, because its funding through regular grants shows a steady decline in the last two years and, in particular, in conditions of pandemic flare and in general all the regular grants remain stable (family care, infrastructure support and so on). There is a seemingly great reinforcement of the National Public Investment Programme, which, however, is due to the incorporation of 160 million of the Recovery Fund into national spending, the final breakdown of which is uncertain. We do not know exactly when and how much of this money will actually be disbursed. The net national component remains locked in the downward trend compared to 2018 and 2019, i.e. we have in the pre-pandemic period. The co-financed section of the Public Investment Programme is an increase of 8.3 %, but it is all about the appropriations for the autonomous units of the Ministry of Education, the Deputy Minister, the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General, which is forecasts of increases in non-productive and formal bureaucracy. All the distribution for the Ministry of Education shows stagnation and conditions for the reproduction of a endemic situation, now a crisis in education. Culture, another big part. We have lower predictions than the pre-pandemic period and we are now moving to the levels before the country's exit from the rescue programmes. Beyond the indifference - and this is where the logic of privatisation comes in - we have a backwardness in the intervention of a planned public policy in the field of culture and the occupation of the gap by large institutions, sponsors and private interests. This is the general strategy in the area of culture as well. And, of course, no policy on the means of producing and handling cultural good by digital means, the internet, the global platforms, all this revolution of infrastructure that is currently happening in this area. That's right now, so we can close it. With regard to the development profile of the budget, the economic projections have an unstable objective basis, and the budget itself is unsuccessful, an unequal distribution budget for the entire Greek society, mainly covering the needs and plans of the leading elite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u602	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in the tenth minute. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u603	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. I'm asking for your tolerance. This clearly affects all areas of socio-economic life (health, education, work, culture), while expenditure on the social state is poor. And, of course, as a general strategy, a comprehensive restructuring plan is being launched with neoliberal measures. Obviously we are voting against. It is fair and socially necessary to vote against this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, too. Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement and immediately after Mrs. Heleni Rapti from New Democracy. Come on, Mr. Goka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u605	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of the coronary pandemic, social inequalities, climate change and their consequences for life on the planet creates for our country a harsh reality for today and uncertain about tomorrow. The mistakes and omissions of the Government to strengthen the National Health System, for vaccinations, for measures and for their compliance are many. Unfortunately, we measure a large number of loss to human lives. Developments and what is happening and said in the last few days and hours, and on the basis of the Tsiodra - Lytra scientific report, they finally require that a serious national dialogue be held. We're constantly asking. At the same time, the economy is struggling to stand up. He's trying to take a step forward. The government, with the 2022 budget, and on the main argument of the planned growth at 6.9% for 2021 and 4.5% for 2022, but instead of the 9% reduction in 2020, is trying to convince it that the recovery of the Greek economy is given and the return to a normality it only knows. The Government in all matters has priority for their communication management and visibility. However, the people of the market, the real economy, labour and production, the workers, the young people have their own, quite a different view. In fact, inflation at 4.8%, the deadlocks of small and medium-sized enterprises, the retail trade and the focus, with the primary sector not priorities for aid, but investment, is a matter of the sustainability of family activities and survival. Gentlemen of the government, before and when and when you make discounts or anything else for electricity prices, there will be no activities. Producers and businesses cannot stand. There are now three-fold accounts for electricity costs due to the adjustment clause. I have a specific example: from EUR 4,000 to EUR 4,000 the cost of electricity consumption in a production company, reaches EUR 13,000, with the adjustment clause, without the regulated charges. There is no doubt that households are also charged with this. The relationship between indirect taxes is now set at 1.63 from 1.15 in 2014, with obvious social injustice for the weakest. Similar results will also be forecast for an increase in tax revenue of 7.5% with GDP growth of 4.5% in 2022, compared with an increase of 4.7% in 2021, but with an increase of 6.9% as foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is now desperately lacking in investment. And the results of the demilitarisation programme are poor. Just 7.5 billion a year so far. The 32.5 billion resources of the recovery fund are indeed an opportunity. But how? With EUR zero absorption for 2021 instead of the provision for EUR 2,6 billion? We did not vote for this plan because it does not concern all Greeks and all Greeks, there was no real integrated dialogue in society and in the House with the municipalities, the region, the productive and professional bodies, it has no regional dimension or development and production. It does not really support the primary sector. It prioritises the absorption of resources with what this implies. The objective of domestic added value is not a priority, and therefore also the export sector. The implementation of the forecasts in the public investment programme amounting to 7.8 billion, or 4.2% of GDP, compared to 8.35 billion, is doubtful. With 6.5 billion co-financed resources and 1.3 billion from national resources, and there are also 3.2 billion from the recovery fund. If they eventually absorb the increase in total by 2.7% of the funds for investment cannot cover the 9% investment gap, even at the most optimistic factor of resource mobilisation. The budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport amounts to EUR 2,046 billion for an estimate of 1,86 for 2021, with EUR 200 million for the recovery fund. But the needs are much more. The programme announcements of 13 billion of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport do not concern a comprehensive plan for all infrastructure in the country and the upgrading of the National Transport System. The choice of construction with more PPP projects or with the manufacturing design system can lead to a decrease in competition, an increase in dependency and an increase in project costs, and other risks to public goods such as water from the selection of PPPs for the NDP networks. Many major road projects are still waiting. E65 is on the way, but with problems after the recent amendment of the contract. The Patras Tower axis was only received yesterday as it was announced that the concession agreement with Olympia would be approved, but a contract that we still do not know about. For the BOAK - seven years, nothing has happened and now - in the logic of the previous government, the project is being tripled, and the PPP and concession contract and public work. On the Ionian Road, the Yannina-Cacavia section is degraded and transformed into a road axis of 12 and a half metres wide. A choice contrary to the particular regional and national importance of this project. A choice he finds opposing the Continents and not just. This project must be completed as a normal highway. As should also proceed with the vertical connections of the Preveza to Ionian and Egnatia Roads. Similarly, the package of 4 billion railway projects does not include the integrated Egnatia from Igoumenitsa to Evros, neither the network of the Peloponnese after Patras, nor the link between Western Macedonia and the overall upgrading of the rail network, while the government through errors and delays to strengthen public transport, but also inadequate measures, has not yet solved the problem of aggregation in public transport. In closing and referring to my region, in Arta, a productive area, there is no design and prediction of integration, particularly in the Recovery Fund, for any major projects such as the land's improvement works. Last financing we had in 2014. The completion of the irrigation peta - Coboti. Projects to be used in the Gulf of Lebanon. Anti-military protection by delimiting and adjusting the Arachthos bed. The development of the geopolitical field of Artas is necessary, productive, but static without even beginning. In an area where all producers and farmers are affected by increases in production costs, without aid for the loss of income of last year in citrus and olives and without compensation for the acarpest from the spring glacier, with increases in oil and electricity, feed and farmland. They can't stand it anymore. An area with problems and shortcomings in the hospital that have exhausted all resistance to medical and other personnel. With the risk for the operation of university departments, for Arta and for the whole continent due to the minimum import base and the way it applies. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, for our part we believe and support regional and sustainable development, with social justice. We're next to the world of work and production. We want the young people in their place. We want everyone to live with dignity. But we are against maintenance and populism wherever they come from. This budget cannot, in the end, provide realistic solutions for our society, it does not support real growth and it is not credible. That is why we are voting against other than defensive expenditure and expenditure for the Presidency of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, too. Mrs Raptis from New Democracy has the floor and immediately after Mr Avramakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is drawn up for a second year in a period of uncertainty due to the pandemic. However, our country managed with an exemplary management of the economy to be the first to achieve so fast and impressive a return from a recession of 9% in 2020 to a growth of nearly 7% in 2022. The new budget responds to the basic government targets for dynamic growth across the country that will be turned into prosperity for all, for an economic model that brings investments and creates new jobs, well paid, for a state that leaps to digital transformation, drastically restricts bureaucracy and is next to the citizen, for a social protection net with targeted actions and with substantial support policies for our most vulnerable fellow citizens. Greece is coming out of the multi-annual fiscal and pandemic crisis. We are a country of reference for the economy and the development and destination of capital and investment. Purchases trust their money in Greece so we can borrow at historically low interest rates. And all this in just two years with pandemic and energy crisis, with refugee and Turkish challenges. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the definition of economic success. We see colossal companies invest in Greece: 'MICROSOT', 'PFIZER', recently 'AMAZON' followed by dozens. This does not just mean jobs, it means good jobs with good pay, and it is a trigger for the return of hundreds of young children to a Greece that recovers its lost competitiveness and offers young futures and prospects. The government supported the country by making an unprecedented amount of money available. Only to help households and businesses spent 43 billion euros. There is no more confirmation of a state's social sensitivity. They are billions of euros that saved businesses, paid workers, kept the market upright and supported households. The government has kept Greece up so that it can move on the next day of the crisis and that is what it is doing today. A brief reference to some qualitative indicators of the new budget are of interest to the everyday life of all of us: Starting not just by the fact that there is no new tax, but by the fact that tax reductions are continuing. Nearly 30% of recruitments planned for 2022 will take place in the health sector. Along with the nearly four thousand recruitments that took place in the previous period, they show the government’s practical support for public health that continues to raise the burden of pandemic. By the end of 2022 the exemption from the special solidarity levy and the reduction of the three percentage points of insurance contributions to the private sector shall be extended. The refund rate of all repayable advances shall be reduced. The GFCF programme is extended to grant household loans. The programme of the hundred thousand new jobs for another fifty thousand new jobs is being extended. The tax on parental benefits is abolished for relatives 1 in grades pertaining to parental benefits and donations up to 800,000 euros. In order to tackle youth unemployment, all young people from eighteen to twenty-nine years old who have no previous work experience and will be recruited in the year 2022 receive a total of EUR 1,200 for the first six months of employment. And there are dozens of more active policies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with a reference to the National Action Plan for the protection of children against sexual abuse and exploitation announced by the Prime Minister from the Step of the House. This is an integrated protection framework to prevent and deal with the sexual abuse of children aimed at adapting institutional functions, in the direction of child-friendly procedures, in the quantitative reduction of cases occurring and in the increase of cases referred to by the competent authorities. The National Action Plan creates procedures and conditions for the protection of children in practice. More specifically, it creates appropriate services, operating protocols and coordination of stakeholders, a coherent legal framework and a strengthening of its implementation. It is subject to the Minister of State and to its implementation it cooperates with eleven ministries. The aim is a Greece of zero tolerance to children's sexual violence, a Greece that will have mobilised all its institutional and social forces to eliminate the phenomenon. All together, society and state, we break silence to protect our children. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget clearly shows the country's progress towards strong growth. Greece is growing and becoming stronger, diplomatic and political, increasing its prestige and influence, building strong alliances in the region and around the world, attracting the international community, investment in international capital. We are already living in a new Greece that has changed over the last two years. The road ahead of us is open. Greece has the great opportunity with an effective government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u608	Thank you too for keeping time, Mrs Rapt. I would ask that the time is respected, because we will go by 1.30 and it is a pity for the last Members to speak. Mr Avramakis now has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately after the speech, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos, will be called.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, another scandal has been evolving since Wednesday in the country with a leading role once again in the New Democracy Government and the Prime Minister himself. The publication of the Tsiodra - Lytra study shows that about seven and a half thousand people would have been saved if the government had taken the necessary measures in time to support the ESS and especially regional hospitals. Mr. Mitsotakis and he knew and consciously lied to the House. In any other country of the European Union, if the Prime Minister was lying to Parliament, he would have two roads, or he would apologize publicly or resign. Unfortunately, none of the two are happening in Greece. And that shows the crisis of democracy in our country. The example of Serres, where deaths are recorded by COVID proportionally more than the population and where even before the wave of pandemic we asked for aid with doctors and specialist anesthetics, is indicative of the sloppiness and reassurance shown by the government in protecting public health and human life. And if in the first wave there was an excuse for the emergency, now going through the fourth and deadliest wave of the pandemic, the excuses were dry. The government did not strengthen the ESS by increasing its potential as needed, but even suspended those doctors and nurses who had at its disposal and provided their services until last August, with a Prime Minister lying asynchronously from this Step who refuses to strengthen the health structures, no matter how many hundreds of dead people and the tragedy that now live tens of thousands of families in the country. With a view to the end of the pandemic for many years, the government is reducing the public health budget by 860 million euros by removing from hospitals EUR 360 million. With so many dead, with studies of your own advisers who say practically nothing happened, do you have the nerve to bring this budget to a vote? What are you going to tell all these people who lost theirs? The fact that the food budget for the Serres Hospital has been exhausted since November and that for two or three months the hospital will be supplied by way of a direct transfer of money that will be entitled to this end in 2022 is indicative of the reality that it insists that more money is needed for public health. In addition to this, the Government is asking the House to approve a budget which has already started to be reviewed in its basic assumptions: accuracy, inflation, a reduction in household income and purchasing power over the last few months. The Government does not intervene to protect households from this new collapse of their purchasing power. On the contrary, there is an increase in revenue from direct and indirect taxes of EUR 3.5 billion. The 2.3 billion extra revenue will come from indirect taxes, namely those we call on it to reduce even temporarily in order to curb price increases. At the same time, it provides for an increase in the revenues of natural persons by EUR 653 million which cannot be generated either by the suppressive wage increases in the private sector or by the reduction of the unemployment provided for in the budget. The growth promised by the government is limited. It is about 10% of enterprises that have access to bank lending and therefore the possibility of using resources from the Recovery Fund. It is also about the thousands of party posted officials with whom this government is burdening the Greek taxpayer. For the rest of society, unfortunately, the monumental austerity comes back. They will pay more, they will have no support from the state either, in fact, or for the pandemic. They will fully bear the consequences of inflation and accuracy. They will once again pay for the bankruptcy recipe that the Government of New Democracy has consistently applied. The social footprint of the budget is not just exhausted by the increase in household taxation, the cuts in the budget of hospitals and public health. The Government provides for a reduction of EUR 1.7 billion in social welfare expenditure, for the support of the unemployed, for the health benefits, for the costs of the ATTs. This forecast is made at a time when real incomes are falling, poverty rates are rising, and the vast majority of young people are either unemployed or partly employed. In contrast, it ejects the cost of the personal offices of the ministers of the "department of Staff", because obviously the armies of party officials already held by the ministers are not enough to coordinate so many direct assignments. Finally, the budget provides for an economic growth rate of 4.5%. This recovery is far from being sufficiently characterised by the losses of the economy as early as the second half of 2019, i.e. before the pandemic. The development comes in the shadow of the lockdowns, the long intervals, when a large part of the Greek economy was suspended. Even so, the growth will ultimately be financed by households, as instead of wage increases to twice the growth promised by the always false Prime Minister, they will see twice the growth rate of tax growth and especially indirect taxes, from which the government expects to increase revenues by 8.7% compared to 2021. Expenditure on education at all levels remains established, with the main volume of the Ministry of Education spending going to payroll. Overall expenditure on education from the Ministry of Interior to the OTAs and the Ministry of Infrastructure also prescribes a monumental austerity in this area. Public pensions and wages are practically stable, despite the fact that their purchasing power has declined significantly since the second half of 2021 and will continue to decrease as long as the price rises continue. Even forecasts of dealing with natural disasters are falling. It appears that the government, in addition to the pandemic, decided to declare the end of the climate crisis. On the other hand, the Office of the Prime Minister, without the supervised entities, is planned and expected to spend more than EUR 8 million on communication and information in total. Another proof that communication is important to the Prime Minister and the government and not to the essence. In conclusion, I should like to point out that it is challenging to treat farmers, as set out in the budget, with aid being reduced by ministerial decisions at the last minute, with containment measures, it is assumed, however, that the costs, which are below the increases which the government itself imposed on oil and energy before the current energy crisis, are significantly reduced. The reduction in VAT on feed practically does not reduce production costs. With feed prices, farmland, fertilizers and irrigation prices multiply, only as a bad joke can government measures be characterised. Farmers and farmers have been in trouble over all these years selling their products at decent prices and that is the main reason for the depopulation of villages and countryside. The evacuation of production costs today will further discourage the rural world and lead to a reduction in the employment of the population with the primary sector and livestock. The worst of all, however, is that in this budget of lies the Members of the Couple will vote on their own, a great truth emerges: The New Democracy, once again promotes the interests of the economic elite against society, wastes in favour of the few basic rule of economic governance and imposes poverty on the vast majority of the Greek people, leading with mathematical accuracy to a new bankruptcy in the country. The harsh reality will overturn this budget, because it is not founded on today's data. The reality, however, cannot alone overthrow the real pursuits of the government, which is the concentration of wealth in a few, the constant economic restriction of the middle class and the impoverishment of ever larger parts of the Greek society. Finally, this reality will be overthrown sooner than you imagine the country's progressive forces with the body of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. The country, the Greek people, the real economy need a new model of fair economic and social development, a new reliable and strong social state, a new social contract free of corruption, lies and waste, a reconstruction plan that does not concern few or only some regions, but it will come from society, it will enable every region to develop, it will guarantee a better prospects and sustainable future for all. It is clear that I am voting against this budget and I call on the entire Greek Parliament, the Members of Parliament, to do the same. After all, there is no point in voting on a budget that is already in the process of revision. As a friend has said, good budgets when they are voted, usually revised. That is what we have to do at last as a political system is to make our accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, too. Mr Besiropoulos, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Kotsos will speak from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u611	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget, like the two previous budgets tabled by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is based on real elements and data and has strong documentation. They are therefore all aware that this strong documentation that confirms the Greek economy's developmental targeting and dynamics and the practical and lasting commitment of our Government to reducing tax burdens requires that everyone is essential in their positions. I pointed it out in the debate on the preliminary draft budget and replied with arguments about the objections of Officer Responsibility in the debate in the committee a few weeks ago. The main colleagues of the Officerate must be particularly careful in their position: Firstly, because people's memories are still fresh from the policy of overtaxation that they have implemented as government. Secondly, because there is evidence and, above all, comparative evidence that this government has been consistently implementing a tax reduction policy for two and a half years. I'm reporting characteristics: The reduction of the EMS by 22%. The introduction for natural persons with a tax rate of 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000 instead of 22% for them. The reduction of the tax rate for legal persons and legal entities from 24% to 22%, and even on a permanent basis. I would remind you that this is the second reduction made by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. The first reduction in 2019 was preceded by 28% to 24%. The reduction in the tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. The increase from October 1, 2021 of the tax for parental benefits or donations to relatives of the first-class, as defined in the capital tax, amounted to 800,000 euros. This first category concerns spouses, persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, children, grandchildren and parents. The increased tax rate relates to the transfer of all kinds of assets free of charge from each parent to each child, from grandparents or grandparents to each grandchildren, between spouses or person who have entered into a cohabitation agreement and from each child to each parent. For example, it concerns real estate, funds, shares. For the money it is necessary for parental provision or donation to be carried out by means of a transfer of money through the banking system. I would remind you that the sums of money have so far been separate from the first euro at a rate of 10%. The 2022 budget also includes new tax reductions, such as the new reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 24% to 22% on a permanent basis, as I said, the reduction in insurance contributions by three units, the reduction in the tax advance for legal persons and legal entities from 100% to 80% from the tax year 2021 on a permanent basis. Moreover, the extension of the 2022 special solidarity levy exemption, which directly benefits private workers, business owners, property owners and farmers. The reintroduction to 55% of the 100% of the business income tax advance for natural persons, on a permanent basis from the 2020 tax year. The extension of the scope of the reduced VAT rates in the tourist package, transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages and cinema tickets until June 2022. The extension of the VAT rate from 24% to 13% in gyms, swimming pools and dance schools is not exempted from VAT and the transfer of the VAT rate to feed at the over-reduced VAT rate of 6% and on a permanent basis. The reduction of the mobile telephony fee and the mobile phone fee to 10% from 12% to 20%, which was until now, depending on the amount of the monthly account and the abolition of the specific fees for young people up to nine years old. The extension of the suspension of the fee for pay-TV, which represents 10% of the total account until June 2022. The prediction that expenditure related to the promotion of the green economy and digitisation will be deducted from gross revenue from small and medium-sized enterprises, increased by up to 100%. Further strengthening of electronic transactions by providing additional tax incentives for natural persons. In particular, it will be foreseen that 30% of expenditure incurred by electronic means of payment to specific professionals and up to EUR 5,000 per annum will be deducted from the taxable income of natural persons. In addition, expenditure on medical, dental and veterinary services will be doubled by 30% by electronic means. As much as you look into the 2022 budget and the two previous ones submitted by our Government, you will not find a new tax. By the end of the four-year period we must accept the fact that this government will continue to reduce taxes every year. The budget confirms, inter alia, the development target that this government has had since the first day of its term of office. The dynamics of the Greek economy appeared, as it has already covered over 2/3 of the recession with which it closed in 2020. In the first nine months of 2021 the Greek economy is the second in growth between the economies of the euro area. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the government is fully aware of the reality of measures to support the energy crisis, which is a global phenomenon, including, firstly, the subsidy to cover the cost of energy consumption. Secondly, the extension of the income criteria for heating and thirdly, the suspension of the charge on network charges for all domestic consumers of natural gas. At the same time, the government doubles the minimum guaranteed income for December. It goes on to return the excise duty on diesel to farmers, it introduces additional special assistance for disabled people and also additional financial support to eight hundred thousand low pensioners. Subsidies in the field of taxation policy, ladies and gentlemen, are not only limited to reducing tax burdens. For two and a half years, we have consistently and continuously implemented substantial interventions to eliminate bureaucracy and modernise tax administration, to provide benefits for both citizens and businesses. I mention features: firstly, the creation of the Committee on External Economic Relations, which is fully digitised. Through flexible and digitised procedures, it is progressing in a direct and effective way to resolve pending judicial cases that have been pending for years, with mutual benefit for both taxpayers and public revenues. The Greek taxpayer submits his request only electronically and for the first time, without contacting any living, he sees his case resolved within the deadlines laid down by law. Already it is reducing the volume of pending judicial cases, which also has a positive effect on public revenue. Secondly, the automation of VAT refund procedures. The taxpayer shall submit his application electronically for reimbursement of VAT through Taxisnet of the ADI and within 10 days he shall see the relevant amount entitled to his bank account if his case is judged to be uncontrolled. It should be noted that from July 2021, which started applying and implementing the automated VAT refund procedure, for the total number of thirteen thousand four hundred fifty VAT refund applications submitted between July 2021 and November 2021, 83,5% of the refund applications, corresponding to eleven thousand three hundred twenty-five VAT refund applications, were carried out automatically and the total amount of VAT paid directly to the beneficiaries of those applications and directly to their accounts amounted to EUR 552.205.336. These elements clearly illustrate the successful and effective implementation of our economic planning. Third, the creation of a new digital tax platform, which offers upgraded services. Through the new digital platform, the citizen may at any time be informed of all debts, whether under regulation or out-of-regulation, of payments made through banks and tax refunds, expected to be deposited in his bank account or offset by unresolved tax or insurance debts, of payment of tax debts by bank card directly through the platform and of adjusting his debts. Fourthly, making it possible for citizens to stop their vehicles electronically and without having to go taxi to deposit signs. Electronically, the lifting of the immobilisation of the vehicles can now be done. In fact, with these interventions, we are moving towards the digital transformation of tax administration, the reduction of bureaucracy and the facilitation of taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, comparisons with the past are catalysts. The comparisons have been made by the citizens themselves. The Civic Opposition, beyond the crisis of identity and credibility and the lack of a narrative, sees all its assessments being disproved. It should be recalled that it questioned the forecast for a high growth rate in the Greek economy in 2021 and was disproved. It was overestimated by the recession rate for 2020, uploaded it to a two-digit percentage, and was disguised. He had invested in destruction, predicted new memos and increased taxes and was disproved. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, two and a half years later and having faced unprecedented and asymmetric crises, maintains the confidence of Greek citizens. It has reliable, it has measurable results. The allocation of more than 43 billion euros to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, without economic and social shocks, has kept the economy alive. The growth potential of the Greek economy, along with the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the new ESRB, enables us to see the future with optimism. The content and vote in favour of the budget confirm the strong will of the government and society to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u612	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Giannakopoulou, wants the floor for clarification, Minister. Here, you have the floor, Mrs Giannakopoulou, not for placement but for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u613	Insularity, Minister, is an issue that concerns the whole of the territory, which is safeguarded by the Constitution. But in the effort you have made - and we welcome it too - to reduce VAT on the Aegean islands - and I would point out that it is very important that what has been achieved is not to aim for a reduced VAT on all the other islands of the territory. And I'm talking about the Ionian Islands and Cretan Sea. In this effort, which we invite you and we ask you to continue, we will all be charitable. But we would like you to tell us what you are thinking about this and why you did not aim at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u614	Yes, thank you. Mr. Vésyropoulou, please. I think you have clarified this in committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u615	Madam President, yesterday a meeting was held on the relevant subcommittee - and it took us about three, four hours - and that is where everything has been analysed. We've been asked about that. What we have achieved is a huge national success. While the previous government has abolished the 30% reduction in VAT rates on the islands by specific laws - Law No.4334, Law No.4336 and others - gradually in the three categories of islands, we restored the right, the possibility in the country through negotiations at a high level, as I pointed out yesterday, with the participation of Mr. Minister at ECOFIN - which was not at any other meeting with Minister of Finance - with a decision and implementation by the government and the Prime Minister, to restore the reduced rate on our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u616	To fill in, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u617	We said go to the rest of the islands and we'll be sick in this effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u618	He could've had a bigger target.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u619	Since this issue is of interest to all islanders, this was provided for by Article 120 of Directive 112 and is now coming back on the initiative of the Government. This was a success that can solve the issue, because it was allowed for these islands at that time. Now, if later the economic conditions applaud it, here's Mr. Stagioras, he'll see and tell us. Well, Mr. Kotsos now has the floor, and immediately after Mrs. Tyloridou from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u620	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while listening to SYRIZA colleagues, it was confirmed once again that, when they deprive the arguments, the insults, the mud and the vulgarity of their case are no more. Fortunately, however, this time - and I say this time - the Chief of Officerial Response reacted immediately, condemning the fall of the political speech. And if nothing else, we must also protect democratic processes, but also the level of political dialogue, promote it and not degrade it. I have heard most of my SYRIZA colleagues speak out of the budget without talking about the budget and throwing the ball, as the soccer terminology would say, in the cradle obviously lacking of arguments or, if you like, ostriching and weakening or avoiding to look at the reality, which for them is merciless. And what does the reality say? The reality says that we are today discussing the 2022 budget in a multitude of external crises, major uncertainties worldwide, of course, in connection with the development of the coronary pandemic of an unprecedented pandemic for a century. On the other hand, it says to take account of an energy and precision crisis that has been plagued not only by our country, but by the whole world and which is perhaps equivalent to these crises in the 1970s, a Turkey which has been explosively aggressive over the last two and a half years and, of course, a climate crisis that has been facing us with extremely extreme phenomena: ice, fires, heat and so forth, which have also tested in turn the strengths of our national economy. Despite the uncertainties of both the ongoing global economic crisis and the explosive rise in energy prices, as well as the consequent revaluations, we are able as a government to push our country's economy to orbit dynamic growth. This is a development that will continue not only in the coming months, but also in the coming years, as valid international organisations also confirm. You know, the budget reflects the dynamic of an economy and proves whether a government is alert and responds directly to the additional needs, which arise by acting wisely and decisively. What our Government has done anyway by keeping the wheel of our country firmly, with firmness and thus creating a sense of security in Greek society. That is why this year's budget also proves the transition of our economy from the recovery of 2021 to the growth of 2022, to the starting point of strong prospects and to the return of our country to normality, which, of course, is annoying the Civic Opposition, because its account cannot thrive in periods of normality. We were committed to supporting society and the economy for as long as necessary, to address the consequences of the pandemic, but also the effects of climate change and the extremely difficult weather and adverse phenomena, which hit our country and we did so, as our Government has put in place extensive support measures of EUR 43.3 billion. We have essentially created the third largest support package of the economy as a percentage of our Gross National Product in the euro area, following Italy and Germany, and the fourth world after Italy, Germany and Japan, according to a recent report from the European Stability Mechanism. In addition, we create an additional budget space of over EUR 180 million, as we proceed to an early total of EUR 7.1 billion of the International Monetary Fund. We continue with support measures, such as the extension of the 'Cooperative' programme, by extending the programme to new jobs, by reducing the refund rate for repayable advances - more than 1 billion - will be allocated in this direction, serving as much as possible the companies which have been tested throughout this period - by reducing taxes and insurance contributions, by applying the 'HRAKLIS' programme, with the 'GEYRA' programme to grant loans to natural and legal persons. Of course, with a strong, efficient and rapid program for the privatization and exploitation of public property. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, with the measures we take we are taking to stimulate the competitiveness of our economy and we are constantly improving our country's position, which is constantly being upgraded. It is no coincidence, moreover, that EUROSTAT anointed Greece as a champion of Europe in terms of growth in the third quarter of 2021 at 13.4% compared with 11.4% of Ireland and 3.9% of the euro area. Since the Olympic Games, our country has been acquainting with this kind of performance. All this is the result of our policy and the credibility of our government. Is there anyone still claiming that there is no evidence of recovery in our country's economy and that there is no positive growth rate? Already, forty-eight projects totalling EUR 2.76 billion were included in the Recovery Fund. Our budget, ladies and gentlemen, is developmental, is pro-investing and at the same time creates a sense of security in the Greek society. It reflects our Government's systematic and decisive effort to support - be careful, supportive and not support - society in every exceptional and unforeseen situation, be it a health crisis, whether an energy crisis or an energy crisis. Thus, we increase the State subsidy in the electricity consumption accounts, we strengthen the heating allowance, we reduce natural gas, and we pay back the excise duty on farmers' oil. And, as our Prime Minister has announced, we will also reduce the electricity bills to our farmers, reduce unemployment, increase the labour force participation in the labour market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, where SYRIZA has opted for middle-class exhaustive taxes, we choose reduced rates of taxation and targeted support for weaknesses. We are definitively reversing this policy, protecting the most vulnerable, providing incentives for all entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized and large. After all, this is what our philosophy and our political position towards a society that is being tested, against a society that is looking to find the path of growth, with social justice, with the support of employment and the available income of citizens. Crisis for us are opportunities and our next step. So the 2022 budget responds to our government's policy and to our election commitments. We turn to an economic model more extrovert, more competitive and more green, with a growth-friendly tax system, a state more efficient, with less bureaucracy, digitally upgraded and, of course, close to the citizen. Our Government through responsibility, seriousness, consistency, insight and honesty that distinguishes it, lays the foundations for relaunching the economy through a new starting point for strong prospects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u621	Please complete. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u622	I am proud to be part of this government and really proud to be voting in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u623	Thank you too, Mr. Coché. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Stathis Konstantinides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u624	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to trying to make the situation we are experiencing from the government, there is a common admission to the vast majority of the Greek people. We live in a depressing reality. Despite your predictions of growth, which does not cover the recession of last year, the daily life of the citizens is constantly deteriorating in all areas, as the New Democracy's failure to manage the pandemic, climate change and the explosion of accuracy leads to a generalised insecurity for decent living and life itself. Those who leave their sweat in the fields of the Greek province, those who are becoming fatal in factories, those who are struggling with the dividend in small and medium-sized enterprises, those who cannot fill the household basket, those who are struggling to study in antiquities and authoritarian conditions, or those who have shut their dreams out of the right to education, those who are anxiously looking for a job, those who belong to the vulnerable social strata and who are still on the margins, those who are looking for an intensive treatment unit wish all and all together: this budget should be the farewell budget of this perpetual government. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And they wish this because there is no protection of vulnerable borrowers and first homes, as a follow-up to your bankruptcy law leading thousands of debtors to bankruptcy in 2022 by means of summary procedures. There are no measures to deal with accuracy. Leave the citizens unprotected. While in other countries they control the phenomenon of shamefulness and accuracy and increase the minimum wage, you remain faithful to the laws of the free market which you say will regulate everything and prefer a country of cheap labour and poor workers. There are no effective social support policies, support for work and tackling unemployment. There are 53 million of small and medium-sized enterprises. There's no 13th pension. And you're getting the pill on the low pensioners saying you're going to give them 250 euros and not everyone, in eight hundred thousand of the two and a half million low pensioners. From the budget there are 820 million people missing from the health sector, proving your indifference to boost public health, an indifference that has proved far from uncovering the epidemiologist Mr. Lytras that the government had in its hands since May a study of Mr. Chiordas's own who said that hospitality outside the ICU is related to 87% increased mortality. We recall that the Prime Minister a few days before the Step of the House said that there are no studies for greater mortality outside the ICM, and if we have them, we should give them to him. But he had them himself. Will he take responsibility for this conscious lie that cost human lives? There is no budget for any increase in education, because the New Democracy's priority for two years is the dissolution of its publicity. There is no need to strengthen the financial self-sufficiency of local government bodies and, at a time when municipalities and regions are being called upon to face enormous catastrophes and extreme natural phenomena. There is no support for environmental policy, and this has been apparent from the principle of this government, with the abolition of the management bodies of protected areas, as was done by the abolition of the management body of protected areas of Western Macedonia, based in Kastoria, and even, at the time of degreeisation, which the Mitsotakis Government is doing with carelessness, without planning and without timelines, leading thousands of unemployed to a dead end in western Macedonia. And if this budget hits vulnerable people, where it really is uncovered is in your policy for the primary sector of the economy, a policy that has already led our farmers to despair. For two and a half years, a mess has been committed to the payments of OPEKEPE, a mess in the slaughter of the distribution of the national reserve, as they repeatedly denounce rural operators, a mess with reduced subsidies, a mess with the problems of ATAK and pastures, with the reduction of 63 million from the basic aid, with the reduction in payments to farmers, with the delays of months for compensation from natural disasters. The Government of New Democracy is in complete weakness to support the country's rural world and is shown below the circumstances. It leads the farm to despair, the primary sector to dead end and the countryside to fleece. The New Democracy is insufficient to draw up a visionary plan for a national policy strategy ahead of the new CFP and while it must be presented by the end of the year in a few days, it has not yet received the conclusion, which it gave the World Bank direct assign for advice for this purpose, which cost the Greek taxpayer EUR 1 million. Instead of supporting food adequacy, quality and safety of agricultural products and the sustainability of rural businesses, you get two half-measures: EUR 50 million for returning excise duty on diesel, which is not universal for all farmers, and a reduction in the feed market by seven percentage points, while the increase reaches 70%. And you don't care about increases in other farmland or fertilisers. No substantial measure for the explosion of accuracy in agricultural electricity tariffs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u625	Please finish, Mrs. Tyloridou. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u626	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. Those who are struggling to get through their everyday lives are not fatally compatible with the decline in which you have condemned them. They can take their lives and take their lives into their hands. And we declare that we are and we will be with them. That is why we are voting against your budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u627	Thank you, too. We said we'll be tolerating for a couple of minutes, not even ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u628	And the ministers 15 minutes, instead of ten!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u629	Hey, what can we do now, not say it? I'm making an observation to everyone. What bothered you? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u630	Be fair everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u631	Mr Constantinidis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u632	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in this top parliamentary annual procedure, which is equivalent to a vote of confidence in the respective government, I would like to introductoryly point out the attempt to modernise the methods and instruments of governance and good management by adopting the budget model of performance, an important reform that forms new rules in the programming, control and accountability of public finances and constitutes an institutional deposit of transparency, credibility and stability for the country. Thus, since the new year, citizens will be able to know all the costs of each body for each sector of state operation. This week the third budget of the Government of New Democracy is being discussed. Their development and tax-reflecting characteristics common to them, to reduce burdens, to stimulate activity, to support the most vulnerable, to upgrade public services and to place tools in the private sector to become more productive, more competitive and more extroverted. It is clear that the last two budgets are being drawn up in conditions - and many colleagues have said so - of unprecedented difficulties and uncertainties because of the pandemic. Similarly, the country's economic achievements in these adversities are obvious for every good faith. Did anyone ever imagine that Greece could be the first to develop in the Eurozone? And yet, with almost 7% growth in the deficit of 2021 and a provision for 4.5% for 2022, which cumulatively absorbs, and with this, the losses caused by the pandemic in the domestic product from 2020 to 2021. The unemployment figures from 16.5% in September 2020 to 13% in the corresponding month of 2021 and 15.9%, which are expected to be closed for this year, 1.7% below, to 14.2% for the following year. The many figures, ladies and gentlemen, are bored, but how can one ignore sizes such as an increase in investment by 11.7 in 2021 and by 21.9 in 2022? How can we ignore the increase in exports, which relates to the competitiveness of Greek businesses and the extroversion, by 14.1 in 2021 and by 11.1 in 2022? But how did we get this far? With the brutal support measures taken by the government for households and businesses of 43 billion, with the resources of the Recovery Fund, which is expected to contribute 2.9 percentage points to GDP growth next year, with the extensive and substantial reforms that guarantee the sustainable development of the country and the future, with this magical word, to'reliability', unknown to SYRIZA, not only when it was responsible for the country's governance, but also today that is in opposition. Don't wonder, ladies and gentlemen. See each of you the videos of your speech last year, during the vote on the 2021 budget and during the mid-term debate, and you will understand why the Greeks do not trust you. Today we hear you talking about sustainable and inclusive growth. In itself, this is a success. Until yesterday you predicted the destruction of the country's economy. You said that Greek tourism would not succeed, that half the businesses would be shut down, that thousands of jobs would be lost. You've all fallen out, in the deficit, in the padlocks, in unemployment. Today you tell us how to share growth. In any case, the above indicators have a universal positive effect. But special conditions of a broader nature, such as the energy crisis and inflation, caused by the tidal increase in demand, make it necessary to pursue focused social solidarity, cohesion and inclusion policies. We didn't, of course, expect SYRIZA to tell us that. We have already implemented them and included them in the new budget. Support interventions which ultimately allow the Greek economy to perform exceptionally, a result of the policy pursued, to which you have in every way been opposed. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 the country recorded significant successes in all areas of political life and they had and will have the opportunity and opportunity to refer to their sectoralities, many of which have been mentioned and prescribed the good course of the economy, a Greek economy that has managed to gain the confidence of the markets, investors, the leaders of the foreign countries, as has been the case recently with the new German Finance Minister, who has reached the point of using Greece as a model, as an example of reforms that his country should follow, Germany. Listen,son-hearson! Greece has become an example for Germany! But we, ladies and gentlemen, are not restless. The new budget, which, once again, contains no new tax, adopts the slogan of the Olympic Games in its new form now, according to which the traditional trillect "super, higher, stronger" is added as well. They are a concept of objectives which fully correspond to the contents of the budget being discussed. We therefore want a strong and independent country, which is why we defensively support it. We want a Greece with higher growth, which is why we invest in young people, in research and in innovation. We want a country with more effective management and a 'run' economy, which is why we are introducing reforms, with the first digital upgrade and strengthening, we support entrepreneurship. But we also want each Greek and every Greek shareholder of the new era. We want prosperity in terms of social justice. That is why 40.5% of the expenditure on the 2022 budget is intended for social protection policies. Because a success indicator for us is the upgrading of the quality of life of all the citizens of this country. So together, for the best, the best that a liberal, healthy and competitive economy can guarantee, a responsible government and trustworthy, such as today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u633	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. Now Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately thereafter Mr. Athanasios Lippis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u634	Thank you very much, Mr President. The National Representation meets for the major piece of legislation which is the budget of 2022. The animal sits in the country and a cloud of death overlap society. In any other country of the European Union today, the Prime Minister would have resigned, as criminal responsibilities were discovered by a false Prime Minister, who was serious about our deaths of fellow citizens and had the results of the investigations ten months ago. Obviously, the debate in this House is on the budget, but it is not a pretext of political reality and society. It came as a meteorite and reversed the data, the study of Chiodra and Lytra, in which a study makes clear that, since the ESS does not respond whenever the intubated patients exceed four hundred and death is increased, it is clear that the ESS needs support. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, health funds totalling EUR 820 million are being reduced. And another nightmare parameter, which concerns all of us in here, because we are the overwhelming majority of province MPs: Mortality in the province's hospitals is much higher than that in Attica. In other words, we in the province die easier. And Drama in October - November 2020 had three hundred dead. In other words, 40% more easily and more we die in the province. Show that you understand the problem. Take immediate measures for provincial hospitals. And I challenge you: Wednesday, December 22nd, we vote for the Ministry of Health bill. Accept the pandemic demand of the dramatic society. Here is the barren hospital of Drama, to have a treatment that enables it to be more flexible and faster to challenge. Now, immediately, without delay, otherwise you will fully confirm what is being witnessed by society and not only by the opposition. As far as the budget itself is concerned, it is a budget which is actually developing under two decisive parameters, pandemic and accuracy. This explosive combination is essentially a new term, 'conspiracy'. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the budget is not a number reference. Besides, you remember the well-known fact that statistics are a science according to which, when one eats two chickens and the other dies from ashes, on average, they have eaten from one chicken. So don't quote numbers. Look at society in the face. The budget, the bill we are discussing, is an indicator of where the state moves and where society moves. And in the budget under discussion, the numbers are happy and people are unhappy: Make a basic poaching: Compare the second quarter of 2020, in which the country was closed, with the second quarter of 2021 and present a rapid increase. It is obvious that this is because we are starting not from zero, but from a negative basis. The minimum wage is set. Increases in indirect taxes, which are horizontal and unfair to any citizen of the media and of low income, together with VAT, amount to 2.3 billion. The salary ends the third week of the month and the agony of survival begins. These are the parameters and the framework in which you are calling on to implement this budget. We do not see any precise measures for 2022. Private debt remains unmistakable. Mr Hatzidakis showed up at the Council of Ministers of Europe and said that there is sufficient wages in Greece. All of this is the dystopia experienced by society. I close with the question he is concerned about: What is the benefit? Because, indeed, you are taking measures, giving incentives, financing operations, transferring funds, but not for the large part of the Greek society, for the under-the-mediums and the under-the-mediums. The elites are, according to your logic, the ones that will push, they will drag the development train. I would like to say two things about the part of justice, as Head of Justice, because here I heard Mr Kotsira presenting everything in how he suits him. The Digital Justice Programme of 2022 recorded EUR 37.9 million, of which EUR 31 million came from the Public Investment Programme and from the Recovery Fund and EUR 10 million from co-financed resources. Reduced from EUR 46.3 million to EUR 12.7 million, expenditure on international judicial cooperation also appears. Even in the programme of actions to defend human security, as renamed by the Human Rights Programme, a total of EUR 13 million is planned as against EUR 51 million in 2021. The new bankruptcy law comes - and it is true - and the fact that citizens' dwellings are not completely lost is primarily due to the abstention of legal associations by execution acts against the first residence. Otherwise, the situation will evolve dramatically in this part. Finally, I note with regard to the Ministry of Justice's review of the major delays in the implementation of the second phase of the Integrated Judicial Management System. There have been modernization steps, but about where we left it is. The technical bulletins for the electronic plate, which was dominated by the headlines and canals in the previous days, had in real time been completed in December 2018. Since then, you haven't done anything for so long. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Despite the grand proclamations, the protection of minors has been abandoned. Youth care units are essentially inactive. For two and a half years you have undermined the "Homes of the Child" and just the day before yesterday, in view of the budget, you have launched what we had and you have come to present as a great cut. I close with the following point. It is discussed in the public sphere that you will again legislate on vengeful pornography. I want to tell you that we don't legislate a card. You are provoking a wide-ranging debate in society about what we need to do and don't give it all up in communication. It is clear that this budget is not a problem for the vast majority of our people, and that is why we will receive our disapproval. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u635	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy, then Mr Stavros Arahovitis from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u636	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not respond to his colleague Mr SYRIZA, Mr Xanthopoulou for the ITH and the interpretations he has given in the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytras, although until recently, I have been in the front of the National Health System for thirty years. It responded today, with scientific adequacy and political responsibility, Mrs Gaga. Our question today is the budget. We are discussing the third in a row of budgets that the present government brings to the vote. The course of the Greek economy is very optimistic, despite the serious adversities that we have experienced over the last two years. As a general remark, I can say that the government and the Prime Minister respond with a lot of work and solutions. Thus, with structural changes and appropriate policies, growth in 2021 has been shaped much better than expected, at 6.9%, while in the third quarter of 2021 Greece recorded the best performance in the Eurozone, at the highest point in the last ten years. The effect of the pandemic has also emerged in the budget for next year, but we must not just remain in this. The budget of 2022 shall have multiple and specific targets. It's a budget with a clear developmental orbit. The whole structure of the national economy is based on increased revenues, which are expected to arise mainly from investment activity as a result of reduced taxes on digitalisation, speeding up procedures, reducing bureaucracy. For example, the reduction in income tax on enterprises, an extension of the programme of 100 000 plus 50 000 jobs, a reduction in insurance contributions, significant tax relief on farmers, reduced VAT on feed, plus 35 million on feed farmers, exemption from the trade charge on farmers, the reimbursement of excise duty on oil. It is necessary, Minister, to extend this measure to all farmers in support of the cost of production, as you must consider the possibility of supporting them and the electricity adjustment clause, because our farmers are complaining that they will not be able to produce because of even higher production costs. Especially with regard to the rural economy, key interventions were made in support of domestic production, such as the establishment of a strict framework against illegal Greekism, which, ladies and gentlemen, was very effective. Our farmers enjoy better prices in milk and meat. The government leaves no opportunity unexploited and is working forcefully for the regeneration of the Greek economy. Indicative is that Greece is the first country to absorb European resources for the first time in time. The forecasts for next year include an increase in employment of 2.7% and a double increase in minimum wages. Actual investments for 2022 are to be launched thanks to the money and the Recovery Fund, mainly directed at state investments, with a very large multiplier effect. In addition to this, the stable economic landscape of the last two years gives the Greek economy new prospects, turning it into a hospitable investment environment. It has already attracted major structural changes, such as 'AMAZON', 'PFIZER', 'CISCO', 'MICROSOFT' and 'VOLKSWAGEN'. At the same time, measures to support the socially weak continue to be taken. Increased expenditure on social benefits will be EUR 2,219 million. As far as pandemic is concerned, it is, of course, necessary to talk about what has happened and is planned to take place over the next few years. In 2020-2021, an amount corresponding to more than a quarter of GDP was used for measures to support and relieve the economic and overall impact of the pandemic. Of course, by definition, the great battle of pandemic is given to the health system and that is why a great effort has been made to strengthen and modernise a system which is weakened by a decade of cuts and deficits. Public health has quickly been adapted to the special circumstances and has been strengthened in human resources and equipment, with a large increase in the beds of ICU and MFF, with a large number of recruitments of four thousand doctors, permanent and subsidiary and twelve thousand nursing and auxiliary staff. Health support shall also be continued in this budget. Despite the opposing allegations of Representation, there is an increase in health-oriented resources. A total of about 5.3 billion ecus were made available for this project. Euros will reach the health ministry's expenditure in 2022, more than the previous years. Approximately six thousand recruitments are planned in public health, corresponding to one third of total public recruitment. Over the past few months, we have experienced considerable price rises in energy and raw materials that have a fatal impact on living costs. The government, and on this front, takes decisive measures to curb the unfavourable consequences on the daily lives of the citizens. Firstly, the heating allowance has been extended and increased. Part of the electricity consumption for everyone is being suspended, and the network charges for natural gas and the fees for businesses and farmers were suspended and then, as we heard from the Ministry of Finance. Finally, a small reference to my region, Magnesia, an area with strong development prospects. One of the major infrastructure projects to make the Volos node of transport and business activity is the electric power-mobilization of Volos - Larissa, with provision for a connection with the port, the airport and the industrial area. The large projects of the region include biological cleansing and sewerage of the coastline front of Magnesia co-financed by the Recovery Fund. The next day for Magnesia should also include qualitative and environmental upgrading of the primary sector. Of course, the works that are being launched are also the new court palace of Volos, as is the museum - a thematic park of Argos, which can be a reference point with global radiation. Magnesia has a rich natural beauty and wants to have tourism 12 months a year, attracting Greek and foreign tourists. Despite unfavourable international developments, the Greek economy is at the best point in the last decade. The opportunities that have been created are not random and have not been given to us symptoms. It is the result of a coordinated work of well-organised governmental formation, which brings continuously positive results. A new road opens before us immediately, thanks to the Recovery and Resilience Fund, for which I would remind you that our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and his related proposal, at a very early stage in the pandemic, has been fully vindicated. 2022 will be a year - milestone for Greece, a year that will mark the starting point for a new development chapter of the national economy, with an impact on society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u637	Thank you too, Mr. Lippi. Mr. Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u638	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of days beyond the debate on the budget, as it seems from everyone's positions, is an ethical issue, an issue of moral order. It is about hiding from the Prime Minister himself the study of his scientists and advisors, Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra. The Prime Minister, who had knowledge of the study, not only did nothing but lied here in plenary, at the National Representation. He seized his political opponents and continued to go forth as if nothing had happened, while the dead with the pandemic reach twenty thousand. This is a huge issue of moral order and in every other country the Prime Minister would have resigned. The other big issue, however, which concerns the Greek society, is the huge crisis of accuracy that is not just in energy, as some of your colleagues say, either by ignorance or because they want to blur water. While the scary electricity bills come to households, to business, to farmers, people are reluctant because it sees in addition to the increased price of KWh that the adjustment clause that increases the account by 150% is also coming. You are clearly dissolving not only the middle class - you have dissolved the low-paid and low-paid - but you are threatening the largest businesses as well. And you are at risk even members of BSE, as you are well aware. And what do you tell them? You're telling them PPC is doing well on the Stock Exchange. Is that what you're telling them? Who cares when he can't pay the electricity bill? The wave of accuracy, however, also affects fertilizers, feed and irrigation. And it is clear that the fields will not be grown next year, while herds are already undernourished and at the end they are slaughtered. I would like to present them to you in the Minutes and I would ask you to study them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The figures of price rise to see what really happens if you haven't fully understood it. The wave of accuracy also affects farmland prices and food prices at retail points, therefore, directly in the consumer pocket. In fact, we learn that a well-known Greek supermarket chain warned you that there are increases in kinds of basic need more than 40% and even warned about the lack of food if no measures are taken. The same source also stated that the cost of electricity in this company was tripled. We have warned in good time about the risk of a food crisis unless measures are taken. On Sunday and Monday, yesterday, the issue of food security was discussed at the Agriculture Council in Brussels. But, at the same time as the other two crises, namely health and the crisis of accuracy, food production has to deal with both the lack of workers' hands and the climate crisis. We saw early ices, we saw hails, we saw high temperatures, fires, floods, and all that in the year we left. And how does the New Democracy Government deal with it? With ideas, indifference and cutbacks. And we're saying why? Idealism, because one of the first measures taken by the New Democracy Government was to abolish the AMCA yield to refugees. The second thing he did was to suspend the revocation of land workers. All of this is seen in the fields when there are no land workers. For early ice-cream, be careful now, which led to afforestation or low production of crops such as citrus fruits, either in Laconia, or in Ieto-Carnania, or in Arta, which I have visited recently, other countries have submitted a request to the European Commission and a documentary file on exceptional financial aid, which the country has not done. We discussed it again in the Minutes, because it seems you haven't read it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the state budget, ladies and gentlemen. Take a look at two key elements. The appropriations from the regular budget for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food are reduced by 289 million, from 476 last year to 187 only, while the ceilings for total expenditure in the ordinary budget are reduced by 109 million. In other words, the Ministry of Rural Development writes about 2022 only 50 million more in the total budget than the Recovery Fund, and we know that even these have not been prepared and the absorption is doubtful. Another interesting element is the deficit of the PPEP. What is the EPPROVAL deficit? It's the fines and the charges. This year is less than 107 million. What's that for? In good management carried out in SYRIZA government. That is why there are no fines and charges in the country. This money could therefore return to primary production, to the Ministry of Rural Development. Another important element is that the 2020 3K notice was the provision for recruitment of staff from 14-2-2019, but there is no longer a larger budget than last year for the payroll of these officials. So, what's going to happen? Aren't you going to hire him? Aren't the 3K notice going on? And the last point is that since the budget is shrinking and is not supported by anywhere else, there are obviously no other support expenditure for farmers. So we should know what we're talking about in this Chamber. The numbers are numbers. It would be a good thing, Members of Parliament, to read the budget and to speak on the basis of evidence. In other words, the budget for the Ministry of Rural Development is the first Memorandum of Understanding after the Memorandums. That's the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll close, Mr. President. I will close, Mr President, by making a mention - let me - in my region of Mani, because yesterday the Secretary of State for the Environment said that he would make Mani an environmental paradise. You're talking about Manny? Is the Deputy Minister speaking about Mani, where the inability of the government led to one of the largest environmental and economic disasters in the region? You're talking about Manny filling wind turbines with huge residents' reactions? Why? Because we abolished the protective provision introduced by the SYRIZA government for visual contact from traditional settlements. I think the nerve's too much. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary production sector together with the food and drink industry is the largest employer in domestic processing. It presents resilience, adaptability, but also investment activity and even all these years of the crisis. More than that, however, it is necessary to support it because of food security. That is why we are expressing ourselves with such anguish and that is why we are constantly putting forward proposals. We believe that the new year will be more hopeful and will bring hope back to our place, with a government progressive with the body of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u639	Thank you, too. We are now entering the thirteenth circle of speakers, with Mr Georgios Amanatidis from New Democracy, and immediately after Mr Moraitis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u640	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with something we all agree on. Firstly, the pandemic, as is well known, which we have experienced in the last two years, has no precedent. The second thing to which I think we all agree is that the energy price crisis is imported. But after all this, we have something positive. It is a good time that the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has been ruling the country at this time, these years. We are happy at the moment that we have an official who runs the Ministry of Finance, who lowers the particular budget of this House as the previous ones. And I'm explaining why. Firstly, because the EUR 43.3 billion package in 2020-2022 for the prevention of the pandemic was, it was said by colleagues earlier, the third largest share of GDP in the euro area and the fourth largest worldwide. Approximately EUR 3.5 billion is estimated to be support for 2022, with measures such as, for example, you have heard them again, the continuation of the 'Cooperatives' programme, the 'GEOFHYRA 2' programme, the grant of new jobs, the reduction of the refundable advances with the criteria we all know, the reduction of insurance contributions and the extension of the suspension of the special solidarity contribution to those who engage in business activity, property owners, farmers. So we do what we say and what we say is done. Let me continue by saying that the government, while remaining faithful to its election commitments, does not only continue to burden Greek taxpayers with additional burdens, but is going on reducing taxation in critical areas, with a view to alleviating social inequalities. For example, I mention something which has also been heard, the average reduction in the ETUC by 22%, the reduction in the input rate in natural persons from 22% to 9%, the reduction in the tax advance on natural persons to 55% and legal persons to 80%, the reduction in corporate income tax from 28% to 22%. Here, too, we should also add to the abolition of the tax of up to 800 000 on parental benefits. Let me say and repeat what we are doing and what we say we do. At the same time, the government's reflexes have proved to be directly involved in the question of appreciation, which, as I said at the outset, especially in the field of energy. The government has taken targeted measures to preserve households' available income and to address the transient effects of price increases. I'm referring to the state subsidy on electricity accounts. I also mention the broadening of the eligibility criteria for the heating allowance, where for the first time the district heating allowance has been integrated, as is well known. New measures are being announced for farmers on Saturday by the Prime Minister. I should also like to stress the initiative taken by our Government and the Minister for the Environment and Energy to set up the Energy Transfer Fund. I would also remind you of the suspension of the charge for services of general interest on agricultural and industrial tariffs, the doubling of the minimum guaranteed income to be provided in December and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech on the budget of 2022, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras, described this budget as the most successful surnames of the Greek language. He said that he was rational, realistic and consistent, and he said it effectively. And I explain: Orthologics is since this year, according to the Greek Government, the recovery of the Greek economy is estimated by 6.9% and growth in 2022 by four points. The Greek economy, we heard it earlier than the Minister, is developing in the third quarter of 2021 by 13.4% and the first nine months by 9.3%. He called him realistic and consistent. Yes, it is because, according to the European Central Bank, the available income of Greek citizens has increased by 7.3% in the second quarter of 2021 compared to the second quarter of 2020, when at the same time the increase in Eurozone level is 4.8%. He also named him effective. Yes, it is since in an environment of lockdown and a cessation of economic activity the number of unemployed is lower than in April 2010 and those in employment higher than in June 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, in implementing the plan 'Greece 2.0', lays the foundations for transforming the productive model into a more extroverted and greener. We know that in our country they will incur EUR 31 billion from the Recovery Fund, the Public Investment Programme for 2022 is increased by 4.2%, higher than in 2012-2019. The NRV 2014-2020 took off and since the nineteenth place we are in the first place in terms of absorption. For the programme period 2021-2027 the funds that have been approved are EUR 26.2 billion that will stimulate, support society and the economy. And finally, we are creating the right conditions to fill an investment gap in previous years. We motivate and restore the environment in our country, so that it is friendly to attract investment. Already the first signs are encouraging because the European Commission predicts that in 2022 our country will have the second highest investment growth in Europe. So the Government of New Democracy since the beginning of its term has set itself the goal of overthrowing the negative climate because of the unfavourable political choices of the previous government, confronting pathogenesies that have upset Greek society for decades and improving the well-being of Greek citizens. Of course, I have said it from the outset, the circumstances were certainly not the right ones. But with determination, consistency, boldness, wisdom and many reforms that we have promoted begin to yield fruit. International trust in Greece has been strengthened, strengthened and the public's confidence in the government is given. Why? Because we demonstrate every day that we are serving the Greek citizen, that we are improving its standard of living and that we are opening up prospects for the future. We have achieved a great deal, and we are not the only ones to say, and that is also acceptable to the majority of Greek citizens. But we don't stop here. We continue our work intact. And I will repeat once again that we are studying, doing what we say and we must say what we do. That is why I said to you what you have heard, and yes, I am voting in favour of this budget for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u641	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Mr Mouraite has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Skouriakos immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u642	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the third day of the budget debate, a budget that is out of place and time, a joke budget which the Minister and the entire government know about, because it is a budget that will not be implemented. And it will not apply because it does not take into account the dual crisis experienced by our country, the pandemic and the accuracy. The Prime Minister's mile lasts many months, and it seems that it will hold many more. It is precisely the one that is now kneeling homes, low pensioners, unemployed, small and medium-sized enterprises. All the budget is based on a virtual reality. The one that the government has been building for two and a half years, along with a portion of its friendly media. And because a lot has been heard in this Chamber, especially in the last few hours of populism and demagogy, the joke has been cut off, ladies and gentlemen. The epitome of populism and demagogy is this virtual reality of deception, which has been built these two years on the back of the Greek people. It is now clear that there is a democratic deficit in our country, but there is also an information deficit. Any citizen who monitors the positions of your ministers, your MPs, but above all of your friendly media will think that we are in another country where there are no dead, there are no enclosures that you support the ESS. But that is a reversal of reality. I will only mention two examples: First, Prime Minister Mitsotakis twice defeated the pandemic, in fact, one on the background of the Sunset of Santorini. But hard reality tells us other things and gives us other evidence. Yesterday the Lytra - Chiodra study was published, which proves that the lives of thousands of our fellow people were unjustly lost because they were not evacuated into ICU. There has been no request for an apology so far. Instead, you have tried to hide the truth from the Greek people from the first moment. Since yesterday you have been trying, with whatever power you have, to make the white black and to hide your criminal responsibilities. This is not a picture of a European country. In a favoured European country, its Prime Minister would have resigned in such cases. You are getting to blame SYRIZA for politicizing with death - we have heard it many times today - who, for forty dead from influenza, asked for the resignation of the Minister of Health, who made the Eye flag of your opposition strategy and today you are coming here to the Chamber to ask for the change. And of course virtual reality number two. Until yesterday, I would like to remind you, in our country there was accuracy only in energy, as the Minister said. But the reality is disgusting to you again. Greek citizens pay more precisely the cost of the crisis across the European Union. Pricing on the first-demand species seriously affects households and is mainly kneeling on vulnerable social groups. You celebrate, and I wonder where you find the power, that you are reducing taxation when you increase revenues in the budget of 2022 by 3.3 billion, while indirect taxes are 2.2. I ask you: Who will pay these indirect taxes? People's strata, middle-class, households, small and medium-sized enterprises. And of course, the region is experiencing the abandonment. In my place, Ioannina, within two years you have closed university departments by deleting Ioannina from the academic map, you have created major gaps in primary and secondary education, our two hospitals are on abandonment and withstand marginally today thanks to the heroic attitude and self-renunciation of doctors and nurses, the commercial world and the focus are planting, our farmers are desperate. And as if not all of this were enough, in recent years we have been unrelentingly hit and a wave of bad weather, leaving behind countless wounds to farmers, producers, households who have lost their assets, businesses that have been destroyed. The prefecture was cut in two by the collapse of the Eugene bridge and it must be immediately - because I have heard the Minister theoretically speak - to go ahead with the damage recovery works and to strengthen the affected ones. Aetolocarnania is at a difficult time and broadcasts SOS. And I now come to the budget of sport which is the ultimate fiasco. After almost two years of old age and failed measures, one would expect that there will be a substantial and brave support for people of sport, a fundamental strategic plan for the recovery of sport that has been severely affected by the pandemic. But if I had to put a title in this policy, I would say that from sport for all of us we are going to sport for a few. You are giving sport the rate of shame of 0.01% of the total budget. Even the furnished increase of 35 million from where does it come from? From the taxation of bets, of which I would like to remind you, the share of the lion, the 29 million, you have already given them to OEMs and OEMs, but leaving amateur sport outside, feeding them crumbs, who until today have not taken euros. Of course, the Recovery Fund does not go for a single euro in sport. You are also reducing the resources for sports infrastructure projects by 62%. Your policy is now clear that it leads to thousands of amateur unions in our country. And all this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in a year when Greek Olympians came out and openly spoke about the abandonment they experienced from the state. This has never been done in the history of Greek sport. Your suffocating mediator system was unable to hide this thanks to the power of soul and courage of our athletes. In short, with your policy it trades sport, you deliver it to interests, you degrade it as a social asset and as a human right. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have forged yourself to the Greek people as democrats, as progressive, as liberals to turn Greece into a serious European country. And instead of hiring nurses and doctors at the time when the ESS collapses and the country passes what is going through, instead of recruiting teachers to cover the huge educational gaps, instead of hiring environmental expertise, engineers, economists to break bureaucracy and run the broken public administration and come real development, you as the government of progressives and liberals that you give priority? In hiring four thousand special guards to police, universities and four thousand priests. That's who you are. You remain faithful to a parasitic and post-practical development model of the few and the interests you serve. You turn your back to Greece at the same time, turn your back on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, turn your back on the world of work. In just two years, you have made Greece a feud of new-Balkan "trambism". Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against this budget. The country needs a new progressive government that will have society in the front line. Greece is now clear that there is a need for a political change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u643	Thank you. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor now and then Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u644	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget brings unpleasant news for the Greek people in all areas, in health, in education, in culture. Let me stay in culture and say that you have an obsession to link culture to the economy alone. Culture is only worth it if it brings money. The Parthenon is only interested in an opportunity to invest. That's why you ticked him up, so you could hand him over to fashion houses that will raise their models up to be photographed against the background of the Parthenon. The Parthenon, this universal symbol of art and culture, you have made him a wallpaper, a background for performances in expensive dresses. You're materializing this idea at the time you're in the government. You found sponsors, you found institutions, and there are results. This connection has damage to the Greek State. I do not know what the sponsors and the foundations are gaining, but the Greek public, that is, the Greek people, has been damaged by this policy. And since you like to talk with numbers and say and say again "to speak the language of truth", come on, now speak the language of truth about culture. I inform you, if you do not know, that this year we had reduced taxes on monuments and museums, where you were waiting for money. I would remind you that during the period of the rule of SYRIZA, during the period 2015-2019, these revenues were more than doubled in relation to that received from the former government of New Democracy, by Mr Samaras. From 57 million we went to 119 million. How? In two ways: First of all, with the online ticket, which ended this party of opacity, which we did not know what tickets are cut, who cuts them, who gets them, and of course, by visiting them from tourism and with proper programs for social tourism, who finally with open doors to the most vulnerable categories of citizens, brought multiple money, because there was a move. These were resources that went directly to the public, i.e. in the pocket of the Greek people. With your Government, then, we have lost many resources for culture from monuments and museums compared to the pandemic period of EUR 20 million. If in the previous years, in 2015-2019, the course that existed until 2004 had continued, now in the pandemic period, which we understand is less the visits, the reserves would have been zeroed. So this is our policy in the period 2015-2019 proves to be cumulative for the difficulties of the pandemic period. To say that culture, as a social good, is not in your fortresses. For 2022 in relation to 2019, which was the last budget of SYRIZA, the reduction of the ordinary budget in public investment, estimated resources from monuments and museums, is 40 million. Increased amounts of funds shall be recorded. You have operated 'drugs' - let me speak - here, because this is not a real increase, but a EUR 50 million measure from the Recovery Fund. By removing the Recovery Fund, we find that in 2022 there is a reduction in funds in relation to this year's expenditure by 36 million. This is the language of truth, these are the numbers that hurt and you hide them. From the 404 million, then, as an estimate for 2021, are planned for 2022 368 million. For culture alone, with the exception of sports funds, we have a reduction of 24.7 million. In the budget that you voted on last year for 2021, for public cultural institutions, you predicted a deficit of 18 million. Where is the deficit calculated now? At 28 million euros. However, we also have expenditure on the political leadership offices of the Ministry of Culture. Your small and flexible government pattern has almost doubled in relation to the previous government of SYRIZA. Of the EUR 1.4 million for offices and political leadership, the amount of EUR 2.6 million is now entered. The joy of the posters and the seal of the "final state"! And all of this about culture at a time of pandemic that for most artists and artists has been getting into a bit of a bite for two years. In this pandemic situation, a New Democracy Minister said: “What can we do with doctors? Will the pandemic pass and we will not know what we will do to them?' Didn't he know there were any gaps in hospitals when in the memorial years five doctors left and one came and SYRIZA came and did it one by one? There are gaps and need permanent doctors to arrange for the other one's family, his course, and to collect them and go to Alexandroupolis or Kilkis to work. You have a budget of 600 million less in the budget in the middle of a pandemic! What, though, can be expected from a Prime Minister who said a few days ago that we have no evidence that mortality is greater for non-MDV tubes? So you're either inside the ICU, or you're in a hallway or in a room just intubated is the same! Then what do we need them for? Since May 5, 2021, the study Chiodra - Lytra was served by the Prime Minister. Today, Mr Lytras, the professor of the European University of Cyprus, says clearly: we analysed the data, we showed them in time to those who should have known. Who are they supposed to know? The pervert of our neighborhood? It's great, it's the Prime Minister's responsibility, and it's a big mistake that he came here swinging and the finger to put us in place. In what country favoured, democratic, modern, a Prime Minister who fell into such a mistake, would such a lie be in his place? Kurts at least quit. And I'm going back to culture. What about a Prime Minister who has been cementing the Acropolis over his day who said that the marbles are going to be loaned? When we told him in the first few days "that means you recognize the ownership of the marbles in the United Kingdom" he did not speak and now he spoke to Johnson and we will recognize the ownership of the marbles in the United Kingdom if that story goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u645	But please, Mr Squash, because we are'marble' and we are here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u646	I shall conclude, Mr President. We're between us now. Well, let's talk about it. So, what about a Prime Minister who has become this barbaricity in antiquities in Thessaloniki on the metro at Venizelos? It will be cut off by the Byzantine Pompey found there, stored and brought back after, when all humanity, all the distinguished archaeologists have asked not to become this crime. How about a minister who was identified with the undersecretary of the National Theatre who appointed him, who stood up and went to the reading of the work he directed, photographed outside with the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u647	All right, Mr. Darkness, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u648	Let's talk about it for the manager. Let it go. It's okay. He appointed him and went to the reading and then went to the premiere with a helicopter, as they say. I don't know that, I didn't see it. But he properly honoured him, and then they said they don't know who he is. So lies have been revealed to the Greek people. We have followed a large number of New Democracy Members who read the same non paper. However, the place no longer needs either New Democracy's papers or its budgets. It needs a government with a social figure, progressive, which will come - and will soon - with SYRIZA torso and backbone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitris Biagis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u650	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the ratification of a budget for the year 2022 in the middle of a pandemic. So let me begin by sending my warmest wishes to all those who are struggling these days to our fellow people who are fighting to keep alive, to the doctors, to our nurses who continue to fight this difficult battle. All this time the government has shown itself to be unable to manage the pandemic. Two years have passed almost since the beginning of the pandemic and did not support as much as the National Health System and all its structures should. Great words, promises, but ultimately huge service gaps, especially in the district hospitals. Even vis-à-vis the intensive fighters he stubbornly refused to do so and to integrate them into heavy and unhealthy when daily and proven endanger their own lives. Two years we are now witnessing a constantly evolving health derailment in every hospital in Greece. Management government failure has led to multiple daily deadlocks when our hospitals have turned into one disease control systems and the other patients are really left to their fate. It is only enough to remind you that it has taken two years for the government to react to the criminal attitude of certain guardians in order to legislate to cope with their irrationality. I don't know if you have a real picture of the economic reality of the country, Mr. Minister. If your numbers prosper and society is narrow, then either your numbers do not respond to reality or society does not receive any prosperity of your numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, in our islands, workers in tourism are still struggling, after almost two years, to enable them to join the OAED unemployment benefit. Our islands have many difficulties over time in isolation, in difficulties of accessibility, in loss of population and ageing, which now have particularly worrying characteristics. If you visit small islands in our country, such as the Copernicus in my own constituency, you will see in real terms what desertification means and rapid depopulation. In practice, however, I think we all have to admit that the specific measures implemented on the islands under the Isle of Insularity clause are extremely disproportionate, at least in relation to the opportunities and opportunities we have and certainly do not meet the real needs of our islands. Without wanting to dismiss the long-term responsibilities of the political system and all governments, including the PASOK governments, I must note, however, that, beyond the measure of transport equivalent which, although we have seen, was finally implemented by the SYRIZA Government - and we must welcome it - all the targeted island policies that have been implemented in Greece were initiatives of the democratic progressive framing of the PASOK governments, in complete contrast to the Government which continues, after more than two and a half years in power, to approach island policy in a rough and rather pretextful manner. Obviously it is not in your DNA, Minister, the design of regional policies, as it has never been a pillar of your ideology, decentralisation of power and the strengthening of regional administration. Minister, as we have said in a recent question, as our Parliamentary representative said before, as I will continue to do until you reply, in relation to your communications on reduced VAT for the Aegean islands since 2025, we have welcomed and stressed this. However, you have still not informed us why, once again, your policy is coming to break down a policy that should tackle the islands in the whole country. Did the Ionian Islands and the islands of the Cretan Sea, Minister, do they not face the same problems and challenges regarding the other islands of the country? Aren't the Ionian islands and the islands of Cretan Sea experiencing similar conditions of island status to those in the rest of Greece? What were the reasons why the government has not negotiated the accession of all the Greek islands to the reduced VAT scheme when other Member States have done so for their specific regions? After all, in the draft directive agreed, Mr Minister, Member States are given the opportunity to make more specific arrangements. Let me just mention what has been decided last time in the case of a full exemption from VAT paid by the Italian municipality of Campione d'Italia in the region of Lombardy, as well as once again pointing out the example of Portugal, for which, Minister, it is not even a maximum reduction in VAT on its islands in relation to the mainland. So why does the government not choose to apply reduced VAT rates throughout the territory, as other European countries have done and - will you allow me to say - competitively with us, at least in the tourism sector, such as Portugal? So why does the government not choose to claim reduced rates of VAT on all the Greek islands, so that the unjust regime can be terminated both with regard to the European islands and with regard to the rest of the islands? Ladies and gentlemen, the current constitutional clause on islands is completely ignored by the Government of New Democracy. Throughout the pandemic horizontal measures were imposed, we did not even take into account the specificities that exist on the islands and concern the health structures that you have left them understaffed. The Change Movement, Minister, pointed it out to you in time. We have seen the problems that are coming, so we have tabled amendments in June 2020 and December of this year, and we have asked you to give medical staff an incentive to serve the health structures of the difficult and remote regions. No response to both the service and financial incentives that we have proposed, leaving tens of positions that you have announced, for the hospitals of the islands, barren and hospitals intact. More than two years now that I have been watching the shipping sector, I see the limited reflexes in terms of the needs and requirements of the times. For example, the ferry tickets from Igoumenitsa to Corfu have a different price than that from Corfu to Igoumenitsa, the same ship on the same day as the same ferry company. Do you know why? Due to the different pricing policy of the Port Authority of Corfu and Igoumenitsa respectively. Unfortunately, the New Democracy perceives island policy as an agent in the Ministry, in the shipping portfolio. It is now clear in the two and a half years of your term of office that there are no policies to strengthen work, health and social care, culture, interconnectivity, environmental protection. Direct, concrete and targeted measures for the islands must be adopted on the basis of demographic, social, geographical, economic and geostrategic criteria and thus, in essence, the clause on islands, Minister. The Change Movement - and I am ending with it, Mr President - as a genuine expressioner of the democratic progressive party that has the honour of bearing the heritage of PASOK and the work of its governments in which, among other things, the islands and islands were strengthened, cannot consent to a budget that does not include any more specific budget, development forecasts for the island region. The modern model of governance and development that we propose has as a focus on man, as well as the use of technology by giving increased planning and resource management responsibilities to regional administration, by implementing decision-making systems following evaluation and documentation, based on measurable and recorded data, reliable and fully transparent data. For us, Minister, the budgets are being built on by their actions and by their contribution, not by the figures and surpluses which operate at the expense of people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u651	Thank you too, Mr. Biagi. Mr Constantine Collias has the floor from New Democracy. The Corinthians are short, just like the Larissans! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u652	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Skourikos, you were disturbed by the event that took place in Acropolis and everything you mentioned about the archaeological monuments, but you did not show the same sensitivity when your government overnight sold almost all the archaeological wealth to the lenders and the Ultimate, from Knossos, the Acropolis of Sparta to Rotonda and all the other large monuments that present the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u653	The superstition you brought it in. Are you asking for the change?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u654	Please, Mr. Darkness, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u655	That's the reality, and that's why you can't convince. Whatever you say, people don't forget what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u656	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u657	Mr. Wormhole, please! You said your opinions and he answers. They're locations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u658	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2022 budget, an economic project which dictates marginal and critical conditions, a budget which reflects the government's commitment to continue insurmountable structural reforms that favour medium-term development and restores the hopes of Greek society. The main objective of increasing public wealth to the benefit of all in a democratic Greece that will produce, export and prosper. The new year's budget has a defined but also a strategic dimension. It also responds to current budgetary demands, but it also responds to long-term strategic targets. We are fully aware of the difficulties facing us. That is why we must continue to demonstrate the high sense of responsibility that the circumstances require. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the budget under discussion, the third in turn, is a paradox from the policies and activities of the previous government. It introduces some new useful tools and innovations, while strengthening the information available and transparency. Greece is now taking firm and essential steps towards strong growth at 4.5%. Unemployment has fallen to 13%, at the lowest rate since 2010! We received a million million unemployed from your government and today they are in the six hundred five thousand. The available income of all citizens is increasing. How is the last one accomplished? Through the reduction of tax burdens for categories of citizens, such as employees, pensioners, farmers and businesses, and also through the social measures adopted as a whole. The 2022 budget includes a large number of interventions, more than seventy, in order to support the country's economic activity. The interventions undertaken are the third largest support package as a percentage of GDP in the European Union and the fourth worldwide, according to the report by the European Stability Mechanism. Let us not forget that apart from the pandemic, various other external crises have caused pressure on the country's finances and have tested the reflexes of our economy. For example, I mention the severe weather phenomena brought about by climate change, the global energy crisis, as well as the recent revaluations. All of this was a slogan of challenges, but challenges to which our country has acted immediately and in a coordinated manner. Despite the pandemic crisis, which leaves its print indelible in all sectors, the 2022 budget achieves the most important objectives set on the government's agenda. Firstly, it practically supports the business world and professionals. Secondly, it strengthens the economically weaker, as well as vulnerable households, by introducing key supportive measures. Thirdly, it ensures, once again, the continued and successful presence of our country in international markets, so that liquidity and high cash are further strengthened. In this context, we cannot overlook the fact that the increasing investment which is now being made in our country is a boost to national economic development, which, in particular, contributes to the creation of new jobs. I would therefore like to compare the figures of the last decade with those of our Government. It is known that Greece had a high investment gap between 2010 and 2019 and, indeed, the GDP rate was below the average of the euro area, approximately half. For the period 2020-2021, we have seen for the first time a real overthrow in investment. Despite the adverse effects of the pandemic, investments remain stable. In the first half of 2021, in fact, we see an increase in investment close to 12%. I would also like to make a special reference to the primary sector, ladies and gentlemen, to say that 200 million was given by the state budget to the ELGA to cover the compensation granted to producers affected by multiple causes. I welcome many of my fellow citizens, farmers in Corinthia, who, for the first time in many years, receive compensation in the year they have suffered the damage. I would add that at EUR 50 million remains the budget of the measure to refund excise duty on diesel, which will benefit at least seventy-seven thousand young and cooperative farmers. I am aware that this will also apply to farmers who have contractive farming. In addition, this year's budget also provides for an extension of the 2022 special solidarity levy exemption for workers in the private sector and for all those engaged in business, property owners and farmers. At the same time, in 2022 the reduction in the VAT on feed from 13% to 6% remains. I would also like to refer to the low tax rate for all agricultural schemes of 10%, as well as the ELGA grant of 30 million per annum and with retroactive effect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are those, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA that you illegally deprived of the farmers and you have never paid back, while they were legislated and should each year support ELGA's operating expenses. I would add here that under the Recovery Fund at least EUR 2 billion is expected to be mobilised in support of the primary sector. Finally, with particular interest, we are waiting on Saturday for the Prime Minister's statements on measures to relieve farmers who are tested by electricity increases as a result of the global energy crisis. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, we see that we have a budget which, with its predictions, comes to support and further relieve society as a whole. At a time when our country is on a dynamic development path, our government's gaze is on the future, on the new generation, on the farmers, on the businesses, on the 'green', on smart, fair, digital development. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u659	Thank you, Mr. Collia. And we're closing the meeting today, with the last speaker, Ms. Anna Vaguena, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u660	Did the colleague who spoke before? I would like to say to him that I am not proud that the Acropolis has become known abroad from a model demonstration, even if these are DIOR. Of course there have been some agreements with DIOR which we do not know what and whom they brought some money, but I am not proud of that. I want the Acropolis to be different in the eyes of mankind. And you want me to tell you? I'm more proud of the flag that Glezos and Santa went down from the Acropolis than the model show. Well, these days we are discussing the 2022 budget in a daily life that is grim, black, dark and difficult. Unfortunately, about a hundred deaths from the coronary have become normal every day. When we get used to death, it's dangerous. It's dangerous for our reflexes as a society. These reflexes that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis despised and offended, when he came up to this Step a few days ago and told us that "there are no investigations that prove that off-shore mortality is greater than within ICU. Do you have any such proof, Mr. Tsipras?', addressing Mr. Tsipras, the leader of the opposition. "I don't," said Mr. Mitsotakis, "If you have it, bring it to me." Only the research and readings he had had them since May 2021. They were handed over by Mr. Tsiodras and Mr. Lytras to the authorities. Today we read in newspapers Mr Lytra's interview that we obviously informed the decision-makers and, at the highest level, the decision-makers. How much clearer can man say? "If we hadn't done so, if we hadn't informed and just sent the study for publication, we would now be accountable." So someone else is accountable now. What did Mr. Mitsotakis do? Ignore. Did he hide them? He must be a very stupid person to believe that the entire Prime Minister of a country did not know such an important study. So he knew. He knew what he was coming and he didn't take half a yard. And not only did nothing, but he also had his ministers say: "There is no need for a luxurious ESS", Mr.Gerapitris: "There is no need for a further MIT", Mr.Petsas: "If we heard SYRIZA about the MITs, we would have thrown tens of millions of millions into the well without the bottom", Mr. Papadimitriou: "False problems the pipes outside the ITH." False problems! These, masters of the government, tell the relatives of those who lost their own people imprisoned clipboards outside of the ICU. And those who say that may be said because they feel safe with the “carryed” ICU for surnames in hospitals. To this Prime Minister and this government we have trusted our country's fate! This budget should have as its first concern the support of the ESS, even exceptionally, even for the period of our pandemic. We're not at the beginning, so we can say she surprised us. We're spending the second year. There's no excuse. Mr Skakakis cannot say here in the House - I heard him with my ears, on Wednesday when I was present - that we do not have anestheticists for the ICUs, because we cannot train them from one day to the next. It's not a day, Minister, it's not. It's been two years. In two years you could have solved all these problems. You have had all the time to strengthen the National Health System. That is why you put 820 million less into this year's budget. You're telling us we're experiencing an unprecedented development. Really? Were you on the way to see the faces of people waiting at the bus stops to go to work or return from work at home? Did you see despair in their eyes? People who work eight hours or more while paying for six and fewer hours. Because you have made sure that the rest of the hours are overtime unpaid, people who go into public transport, after exhausting work, and they will do an hour to get back to their homes, to their homes who will find them frozen, and it is doubtful if they dare to open the heat to warm them up. Because they are shaking in the image of PPC's next account or gas. Have you seen PPC's accounts, the second page, where is the adjustment clause? I have one such account in my hands: EUR 138: the consumption, EUR 257: the adjustment clause. And because you're talking about subsidies, you're subsidising the households for PPC's accounts, the subsidies on the same account are about 90 euros. If we remove them from the 257 of the adjustment clause, they are left with an additional EUR 167. What are these 167, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Skrekas and gentlemen of the government? Is that your gift to consumers? Or is it your gift to investors, who rushed to buy PPC's shares in its recent divestment, which you are very proud of, for this divestment? Let investors come to pay the bills of the cosmaki, the investors who invest in PPC now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. What unprecedented development are you talking about, when farmers throughout Greece and in my special homeland Thessaly are tested, following increases in fuel prices, medicines, fertilisers, farm power tariffs and the possible abolition of many agricultural products from the related aid? I'll get you an example. In the region of Agias, the cost of a mule herd is EUR 1,295 per year. A maliculture acre produces on average four tons of apples and with an average sales price of 35 minutes the producer takes 1400 euros the acre. The farmer is therefore invited to live this year with a profit of EUR 105. That's what stays after we subtract the expenses. And from there to pay insurance contributions, EFKA, raisin, HISPIA and generally all the living costs of a family, which is impossible. On the other hand, it is a product with a price in recent years that does not follow increases in production costs. While the consumer on the market, all of us on the people's markets, we buy apples 1 and 1.5 and 2 euros a kilo, the producer has not been selling it for more than 35 minutes a kilo for years. With the fragmentary and inadequate measures to protect the rural world from the huge increases in the cost of production included in the 2022 budget, all that can be achieved is the destruction of producers' income and the risk of the sustainability of small and medium-sized farms, but also a risk to the country's food security. To close, to all these workers, professionals, farmers, go out and say that this is a budget that mirrors unprecedented growth. It really mirrors unprecedented growth for the few and the powerful. They get richer. The funds from the Development Fund, benefits, favourable loans and graceful arrangements are directed to them. For the rest, the many, whatever you have left behind. So for an increase in the minimum wage of 2% and some shame payments. Finally, I would like to return to the huge issue of the Prime Minister's outburst, the Tsiodra-Lytra report. Take the place of all opposition parties and the newly elected president of KINAL-PASOK Mr. Androullakis take a stand. Or is Brussels too far away and not the news from Greece? In any other European Union country today, a false Prime Minister, whose criminal responsibilities were revealed, would have resigned. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u661	Be well. Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-16-S1-commons.u662	With the consent of the House at 1.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for Friday, December 17, 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: continuing to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'State Budget for the financial year 2022'.
