ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval, its minutes of Thursday 4 March 2021 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Council of Ministers, of 4 March 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Modernisation, simplification and reform of the regulatory framework for public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development and infrastructure’.]] We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 14/12/15-2-2021 will be discussed by Members of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance Group of Members of the Radical Alliance. Carolou (Haras) Kafantari, Ioannis Drasaki, Dimitrios Vitsa, Panagiotis Kouroublis, Andreas Xanthi, Nikolaos Friend, Nikolaos Papa, Olga Gerovasili, Eleftherios Avramaki, Irene - Helen Agathopoulou, Athanasios (Nashu) Athanasios, Tryphotos Alexiadis, Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou, Stavros Arahovitis, Theodoras, Alexandros - Christos Ayonitis, Ethanasios Athanasios, Athanasios Vasiliou - Kyloumanis, Ioannis Ioannis Khalinoupou (Ioannis Ioannis Ioannis Ioannisanisiliou) (Ioannis Ioannis Ioannisanisiliou, Ioannis Ioannis Ioannis Ioannis, Ioannis Ioannisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis Ioannisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis Ioannisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis Ioannisaninis Kosaniou, Ioannisaniounisaniouououou, Ioannis, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisanihi, Ioannisanihi, Ioannisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioan The reason is the first questioning Member of the 2nd West Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charula (Hara) Kafantaris. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the question we have tabled about the further deterioration of West Athens because of the pandemic has really upset the waters. And what do I mean by that? I mean that political leaders, like Mr Mitsotakis, have been forced after many years to visit western Athens to visit the region in which they are elected, at least since the July elections - to be more correct - 2019 onwards. This visit by Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, last Saturday was accompanied by great announcements, unclear announcements to the Saints Anargyros for the concession, as he said, of the train lines, of one area in the Municipality of St. Anargyra. Of course, it is not clear whether it is a concession or a lease. I guess the second is true. We will, of course, monitor the whole case, monitor what will happen there, how it will be, under what conditions, but first of all, the municipal council of the Municipality of Saints Anargyra - Kamaterou should be informed specifically of all this proposal that exists. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis, perhaps not knowing exactly his constituency, saying that western Athens is being upgraded, he also referred to the Korydalou Prisons. As we know, the Koridalus belongs to the second Piraeus. I won't deal with that any more. But I would like to say that West Athens is indeed a degraded region compared to the other regional units of Attica. Since the 1920s, when the first settlements began and were created - let me say it this way - but especially after the post-war years, since the 1950s, with the parties on the right mainly, but others that have ruled, Western Athens has always been downgraded and its development at all levels has been stagnant. It is an area, however, which must be noted to be characterized by people of work, people of hard work, people of hard work, people who succeed in their lives not inherited, but with hard struggle and great effort. West Athens is characterized by many young, young, as well as many graduates of higher schools and skilled craftsmen. The West Athens, however, for Mr.Mitsotakis, with his statements, is the area of coolers, the area of lift repairers. Maybe that's how he wants to see her, or maybe so he really knows her. And that shows a class dimension that characterizes the government as a whole. The purpose of this topical question is not to highlight the problems of western Athens as a whole. After all, the SYRIZA MPs - a Progressive Alliance over all these years with questions and reports - have referred to specific issues of parliament and tabled specific questions. The aim is to highlight the further deterioration of Western Athens, the B2 Western sector, from the consequences of pandemic, which is clearly a global issue and an issue that of course concerns all of us. Like I said, problems are a lot. To sum up, I would like to mention the way this region has developed, with an unrealistic structure, without urban planning, without large open spaces, with environmental degradation due to its proximity to the Ghost CITA - which, unfortunately, with Mr Patoulis and a recent decision of the Attica Region, will be further extended and will negatively exacerbate the environmental footprint and western Athens - and, of course, without access to the sea front. This is about the Scaramaga area. The problems and consequences of pandemic are many in all areas, as is our topical question. In public health, first of all, the system of either hospital or primary care is downgraded. The first tier, that is, it tends to be eliminated - so as to - operating almost exclusively for the treatment of COVID and, anyway, turning health centres essentially into vaccination centres. We cannot talk about old buildings, lack of structures. For example, since July 2019 seismic schools have not been working because repairs have not gone ahead. This shows the - in introductory words - 'interesting' which exists from the government's side. Here, I would also say that there are schools, for example in Petropolis, that operate in containers with any ventilation. And we all understand what that means to the health of our children. Let me say, of course, about tele-education which is very difficult for the poor income layers that characterize the region. Guys are cut off from teleworking, and that's a big deal. For example, the information provided by the Agia Barbara Parents' Association for approximately three hundred children who lack tele-education and do not have the means. Mrs Kyrame's tablets are still expected! In the economy, western Athens is characterized by small and medium-sized enterprises, it has retail trade, it has small traders, it has a large number of trades. In general, all this small- and medium-sized business, with what the government has announced, has remained out, I would say to the majority of any financial support, while a number of issues that have to do with obligations of small traders and entrepreneurs are moved for the future in an uncertain way if they can actually serve in the future. That is why we, as SYRIZA, have concrete proposals that will analyse them by a colleague from the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance that will later be placed. I am appalled by the danger of the new bankruptcy code, which will start to work and create terrible issues. As a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance we are in direct contact with traders, with trade associations, with chambers, with this particular area that put concrete proposals. He was submitted to the City Council a hundred-and-a-half-year-old traders who speaks of the exemption from the compensation fees for cleanliness and lighting. Of course this is the government's responsibility. It must also strengthen municipalities in trying to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, because their incomes are clearly in the pandemic period. Of course, there is another serious issue: services, how the ordinary citizen is served, but the small and medium-sized businessman. When, for example, Agia Varvara has no banking store, the National Bank in Cameroon has closed when the 'COSMOTE' has closed down when the ELTAs are weakened by redundancies, how will the world be served? Of course you'll tell me: Take the transport and go to the next municipality to serve. But how are transport in western Athens? Is there an intra-democratic transport? Are these regular routes? Here comes the huge issue of the use of public transport, the densification of routes, but this is not the case because we also see the problems that are created with the coronary, since experts say about crowding. I mention indicative transport problems: In Agios Anargyros it is difficult to access the centre of Athens. Problems in Petroupoli. Metro lines serve only Agia Varvara in western Athens, because it continued toward Nice - Korydallo. The station was opened after the previous government, the SYRIZA government, had prepared the whole process. Ladies and gentlemen, the health problem is very great in West Athens. They are, as I have said, poor income levels which are mainly directed at the public health system. Two hospitals have the western Athens: "Attiki", an emblematic university hospital and the small "Agia Varvaras". For Attica, we have new evidence of what is happening. It tends to be converted into a CIVID hospital. This means they close clinically and become clinically COVID. In last Monday's newspaper we visited the hospital because we as SYRIZA are everywhere where the world's problems are. Five beds of general ITH existed in this large university hospital, ranja, etc. But I will say that there is this little effective, but history of "Agia Varvaras" Hospital. I would like to mention this in particular, and I would like to say this: this hospital has in practice demonstrated its importance now within COVID. Yesterday he had fifty-six patients. The beds were fifty-two and became triples to serve lightly - in introductory - incidents. However, those who are doctors know that it is not possible for a clinical COVID to function without anesthetics and know very well that within five minutes the clinical condition can change. Seven minutes makes an ambulance of the EKAV come to pick up a patient from "Agia Varvara" to be intubated. So she needs an anaesthetic. I do not know whether Mr Kontozamanis says 'anaesthetic has been appointed'. Yes, he is in the potential of "Saint Barbara", but is not in the "Saint Barbara". There's a big deal about patient safety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u3	And slow down, Mrs. Kafantari. Don't worry, you have your dentextology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u4	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Of course I must say that it is well known that Mr. Georgiadis in 2013, along with other structures, closed this hospital. Finally, as far as primary health is concerned, there are nine signs of vaccination. Health centres have been converted mainly into vaccination centres. With regard to vaccinations, I will say that West Athens - and I will submit this particular element from 'emvolio.gov.gr' - is far below the vaccinations, while in the North, with a population of five hundred ninety-one thousand six hundred eighty, based on the 2011 census, there have been thirty-eighty forty-eighty vaccinations. In West Athens, with a population of four hundred and eighty - nine thousand six hundred seventy - five, thirty - nine thousand vaccinations have been made. I have specific evidence. The government needs to aim at problems, to upgrade epidemiological surveillance because of the pandemic, to take measures for the school roof, to strengthen primary health, to have access to new NSRP programmes, to design the government within the framework of the Recovery Fund and the NSRF 2021-2027 new programmes and to integrate actions, to have OAED programmes for the unemployed, who are many, to strengthen public transport. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. I will close with the need to strengthen cultural capital, cultural clubs, etc., which especially during the crisis, its role is very important. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u5	Be well. Let's go to the second questionable MP, Mr.Ioannis Drasakis of the Second Western Sector of Athens. Mr. Drasakis, you have five minutes at your disposal. Do you want me to put on your period of dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u7	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this initiative we want to convey to Parliament the concern of the people of western Athens about the problems they face and of which there are no answers. If you come to Peristeri, Agia Varvara, Petroupoli, in all the municipalities of the region, one thing you will hear: "Do something." The measures are not enough, there is no plan, there are no stable ones. Nobody knows what to do tomorrow. "Visibility zero," some businessmen said, and indeed, from the area of ruler's party. I would like to say that this concern is well founded, because we all realise that, although things are difficult now, when we move on to the stage - which we hope will soon be - to relaunch the economy, to limit or to lift some exceptional measures that are currently in force, there will be even greater problems, particularly the problems of unemployment, employment, the issue of employment for young people, the long-term unemployed, etc. What about focus and trade? They are two branches generally critical for the country, especially for the region, but they are not even mentioned in the recovery plan submitted by the government. Our view, Mr Ministers, is that his logic of seeing and doing has been exhausted, was from the outset. Now it's a source of trouble. The emergency measures are necessary, but we must gradually move on to permanent policies that support recovery. Because, as Mrs Kafantari has said, it is not just a question of finding out what problems are, but also of helping to deal with them, which is why we are also pointing out solutions which are precisely in response to these problems. We therefore propose and call for targeted programmes to combat unemployment in western Athens like what the SYRIZA Government has drawn up. Firstly, a programme of temporary social benefits by the OAED for the municipalities of western Athens, secondly, a training programme for vulnerable groups of the population in the standards of the ASA programme, but with the ultimate emphasis on the employment of the beneficiary and thirdly, a specific sectoral programme of the Ministry of Development to boost employment through the support of enterprises, with various incentives. With regard to the accumulated obligations of businesses and households - I hope that the Ministry of Development will monitor our debate, because many issues are about the Ministry of Development - we believe - and not just us, all of Europe is discussing this issue, all of Greece and all of Europe - that there is no future without brave regulation and a haircut of their obligations, especially the obligations that have been made during the pandemic - which are carried out during the pandemic - in other words, the debts of survival rather than development. That's our position. What's the government's position? Is it the "no way" people said? As far as the financing of the recovery is concerned, what is the point of appeals to the banks when they ignore you, Prime Ministers? How much money did the banks get from the European Central Bank? How many of these did they give loans without public guarantees? How many of them were in small ones and how many in large ones? Say these facts, and I think some will be ashamed of the image that will appear. We believed and believe that in times of crisis, the responsibility and the burden for financing the economy lies with the state. This has proved to be the case today throughout the world. Even to us if there were no state advances, if there were no state guarantees and loans through the Development Bank, the economy would have collapsed. So upgrade the Development Bank, which I am sure you too recognise has proved to be a valuable tool, turn it into a micro-credit. Why did we vote for the relevant law, Mr. Georgiadis? He's not here, but I hope he hears us. Why did we vote for that law? To stay in the drawer for a year and a half and nothing happens? I told Mr. Georgiadis at the time: "Don't mess with the Bank of Greece with this. There is no need to oversee this institution by the Bank of Greece." Now we see the result, delays. Even now, let the institution become active, move from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Development which is responsible for it, so that with the Development Bank, with the small credits and a network of regional banks or regional branches of the Development Bank, with these three instruments as the top, can treat the banking exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises. On this occasion, the government must also deal with the other form of exclusion - Mrs Kafantari said - caused by the fact that all municipalities do not have a branch. Indeed, now there has been the measure that movements from municipality to a municipality are forbidden. I mean, St. Barbara doesn't have a bank at all. To serve someone has to go to another municipality and pay a fine? Why are they doing this? These anger the world, create indignation and anger, for they show a government that does not even know the elementary facts. Perhaps he doesn't know that there are municipalities that have no bank. I would like to point out - because we too have been concerned about this - that the pressure on the banks must be done, but we must not confine ourselves to it. The banks will close a lot of branches. We must therefore rely on the fact that access to financial services in the European Union is recognised as a social right in the European Union. On this basis, therefore, other solutions must be prepared, either through ELTAs or through the Development Bank, or through another institution. Conclusion: There are therefore many individual actions that if implemented and coordinated correctly can give immediate relief to the problems. That is why I conclude with an overall and concrete proposal, which I would like to see the Bureau tolerable for a minute if I need to. The proposal is: To draw up a special development programme for western Athens, a recovery programme, as well as an upgrading programme for the region. The need is obvious. No one is questioning the chronic deterioration and the problems of the region, which the epidemic is exacerbating. The functional utility of such a programme is also obvious, as it will enable the concentration, coordination and control of the implementation of actions, a variety of actions which will be heard here today. Is this achievable? It is, of course, up to us in the North Aegean, because of the problems that the region has had. It turned out to be one of the good practices of the SYRIZA government. Whoever you ask the North Aegean, whatever political party it belongs to, it will tell you positive words. This programme can be drawn up in accordance with the procedures laid down in Law 4635/2019. It was a law prepared by us, passed by the new government, so it is shared acceptance and precisely provides for multi-annual programmes. The funding can be made from national resources, from the Public Investment Programme, but could also be part of the recovery plan as a more general action. It is the only way to respond to the expanding regional disparities that characterise Attica is the only and most effective way to bring the region back into recovery. We call on the government to study and accept the proposal. We call on the municipalities in the region, the actors in the region, the opposition parties to work together to bring about such a special development and upgrading programme for the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Drasakis. Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, of the Second West Athens Sector, speaks. Good morning, Mr. Vice President. Incorporate your dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u10	Good morning. Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Brutsi, has something happened? Mr. Georgiadis was here earlier. Why isn't he here now? He'll have to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u11	He's here, outside the Chamber, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u12	I've seen him, too, and we talked. That's what I'm saying. I'm not saying he's missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u13	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u14	Sorry, I had something urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u15	Good day, second time, Minister. Mr. Drasakis said important things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u16	They told me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u17	Good. To be clear, the problem with western Athens did not arise now during the pandemic, but increased during the pandemic period. What do we have in West Athens? Governments come and go, promises are given, and then the inhabitants and municipalities of western Athens are left alone, fighting for their lives. And if the mayor or mayors are active people, they find ways of understanding, intercultural and intercultural, something goes on. If it's not and we wait every time from the government, from Heidari and St. Barbara to Cameroon and Illion, then we wait unfairly. The way the central state is perceived in western Athens is problematic. I'll get you an example. When the municipalities were separated, i.e. a new provision of the municipalities was made with the "KAPPOSTITRIA", the proposal was that the Municipality of Haidario should join the Municipality of Agia Varvara. The atheophobics who made this proposal thought the settlements were next door. They did not understand that between Agia Varvara and the Municipality of Haidari there is the "Dromocaeteio", there is the Diomedeio Alsos and there is the huge area - which was then built the supermarket "METRO" and now there is the Metro station - where the boundaries of the settlement of one municipality with the other are more than two kilometers away. Then in both regions a joke had been joined, saying "Think of the parade of 25 March to begin with from Palataki and end in the square of St. Heleousa" in order to catch both municipalities. The kids just wouldn't get there! I say this because I would like to stress that here we have a class option for western Athens. This is why there is a lack of services, significant gaps in social and other infrastructures, a significant delay in the level of development. Mr Contozamanis, Mrs Kafantari also mentioned this, but they are a surprise to the figures made yesterday by the government itself at the level of the vaccinations. In West Athens there have been thirty - nine thousand nine hundred twenty - six vaccinations. At the same time, in the northern suburbs, thirty - eight thousand eight hundred forty and in the center of Athens, forty - nine thousand eight hundred twenty - two. Why? Of course, that is not controversy. We would also like West Athens to have had much more vaccinations. What's the point? Because in West Athens vaccination centres are few or not working, which is the main issue, and secondly, because they are missing doctors. But let me move on to the main issues, trying not to talk about what Giannis Drasakis has already spoken and of course Mrs Kafantaris. There are important environmental issues. West Athens, like West Attica, is the backyard of this state, not just Athens. These were before, but they weren't solved. As soon as yesterday there was a broader meeting, which had to do with the land uses of the Polikilos Mount. I imagine that Mr Panagiotis Kourublis will speak, especially on the Polikilos Mount. But there are many other big issues. First, the Scaramaga beach area. There are studies. The area currently occupied by the refugee camp, i.e. the Probleta 4 and the surrounding area, which has never been used by the shipyards and belongs to the public, rather than being attributed to the municipalities of western Athens and Attica, is going to be a gift to a private person, with a double tender, who has so far failed. Because when the other guy finds you "bosic," he wants to take everything away from you. With 15 million, he wanted to take the entire facility and 55 million, on the basis of which the competition was presented, no one came. Think about that thing. Secondly, the Park - Radio Museum in Ilioon was delivered maturely by the SYRIZA government to highlight the historical site where the handmade first radio transmitter is located. Along with him, thirty-three acres of green are to be attributed to local society, etc. And we're going to the huge question of West Athens and West Attica. It's the question of the operation of the Gender HITA. On February 26th, i.e. last Friday, it lit fire at the Ghost HYTA. Whoever was at that time in the neighborhoods of Petropolis and Ilio, mainly - not that the others are not affected - could not just breathe. What about this? There's a design. Is he going to move on? That's the design Mr. Patolis took him to court then. And today this design is not progressing, and we have lived in this area for the Ghost HITA, which is dangerous. It's not just a health bomb, it's a bomb for all of Athens. The Gender HYTA must be shut down and incorporated into the comprehensive plan proposed by the Life Force. I would also like to say a few things completely descriptive about health issues. Do you know what the Atticon Hospital - which, I beg your pardon, but we did, when I say, the people of western Athens inspired it, found the funding under the PASOK government and with the help of all the mayors of the Heidari, and Dimitris Skabas, and Vangelis of the Diaikos, and Kostas Spelliopoulos, who began in his prefecture - to have sixty-five and seventy-five people in the halls, to miss the doctors? So, a standard hospital fills with a ranch and at the same time want to do it a hospital for COVID? What about the General Hospital "Saint Varvara"? Mr Mitsotakis as Minister for Administrative Reform, like the then Minister for Health - I do not remember who he was - had decided to shut it down, not to have this hospital. And Mr. Kikilias comes the other day and says he's in the battle and the "The St. Barbara" Hospital that we kept in life. And Mr. Kikilis forgets that the "Saint Barbara" Hospital is a reference hospital for COVID since March. So that's how you deal with things? You know what's going on? Or do you know what happens to you in this area? Secondly, there are two psychiatric hospitals in the area, the ‘Athens Psychiatric Hospital’ and the ‘Dromocaeteio’. And these have become hospitals for COVID, lack of staff, and they go by saying. At primary and vaccination levels we have contacted Panagiotis Kourublis, I hope he will tell about the lines. Mrs Rapt is also coming - and I am closing with this for psychiatrics - and she says: 'Help all the ammunition who have a psychiatric programme for those suffering from COVID'. In other words, the psychiatric hospitals will help these specific ammunition. The Attica will do the same. Please keep it for the minutes, it has all the necessary documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u18	I, too, slowly ask you to complete it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u19	I'm closing fast. You're really turning these hospitals, made with our money and blood literally, into PPP. They're actually turning them into hospitals in private. You know, Mr. Kontozamani, I would like to tell you this, that I made a calculation for the Municipality of Peristeri. In their operation, vaccination centres have the possibility of vaccinating - and provided that we have vaccines and that the vaccines have come - in the dove of fourteen thousand per month. That's true in maximum, we don't have the maxim now. The pigeon has over three hundred thousand inhabitants. If you make a simple division, it says that in order for all people to be vaccinated there it will have to be twenty-one months if we operate on the maximum. So we're going to make more vaccination centers? Will the vaccination centres be served? Or is a doctor going to say that "we got him on paper, don't we actually have him"? Or is there going to be nursing staff for three months, but now he's up and gone, did people go to work? That's what we're asking, what measures you'll take for health. For the environment, as far as I am concerned, it is important to answer us, because, as far as I know, you children in general are poor people. You may not be from western Athens, but you understand that pain. Let me remind you that West Athens has also made very important scientists and very important athletes and, of course, very good coolers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA, has the floor. Incorporate your dentistry, Mr. Kurubli?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u21	No, we have to answer the Ministers. Mr President, in interpreting the Chamber, I believe, I would like to express our solidarity with the people of Thessaly and in particular with Tyrnavos and Elassona who are being tested and I believe that the Greek State, the Greek state, the Greek Government will be in every way alongside them. Because it seems that too many people are tested by the presence of their homes now, if they are able to accommodate them. Mr President, we are talking about an area that at some point was so abandoned that it was designated as a 'west bank', precisely to illustrate that it was a region of peoples, workers and people who, while they were close to the capital, near Kolonaki, were living their own martyrial blockade. I have to acknowledge to the mayors all these last thirty-forty years, at least for the majority of them, their great contribution to the attempt to get out of the social and economic blockade of this region. In my assessment - I do not have the only truth - the presence of the Greek state, the Greek governments, was the Metro, which really gave another dynamic development in the region, and the "Attiki" Hospital, which together with the late Dimitris Kremastinos and the late Manolis Skoulakis were founded. Because the work of some people has to be mentioned sometimes. And then, with the contribution to Delore of the late Andreas Papandreou, the credit was secured. Because then there was a line under the Delore programme not to become such a large hospital in Athens and such political intervention had to be made. And then, in our term, this very big hospital was founded and with several reactions, I would say. Mr President, the region also lives another torment, which is not so well known. For a hundred years, Ministers, there is a dispute between the Church of Lamia and the area especially Peristeri and Petroupoli. Tens of thousands of houses of biopales, hirers, workers, workers, who gave "blood and soul" - we all know what a house means to Greeks - are today questioned. I was in front of this problem as Minister of the Interior and we then took a position as a government very decisive, to support the two municipalities and the inhabitants of the region in this dispute. I would like to stress and thank the Mayor Peristeri and the then Mayor of Petroupoli, who publicly recognised that this was the first time that he supported so decisively and did not play a game with this issue for many and understandable reasons. I hope that today the government will keep this post. Of course, it is not the responsibility of the two Ministers who are here, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, but I am addressing the government. Another issue for the region, ladies and gentlemen, is that through the passage of utilities to the works they make leave so many malices that the image of the streets of the wider seven municipalities reminds of a bombed landscape. And of course, there is always unresolved the continuation of Metro from Anthupoli to Ilion. Unemployment is a huge problem that primarily touches people's families. I, too, plead for what was said by colleagues, Mr President, for the existence of an active aid programme, for people to work in the municipalities and other organizations in the region. But a large part of this area, Mr Ministers, worked in the so-called ship repair area. For the past twenty years, we have known very well what has happened in the region. So now, with the presence of 'COSCO' and while there was a prospect of starting to function, we see the five tanks of 'COSCO' operating at 50%. This is precisely because it prevents many ships from coming to repair because of the policy of solid waste. You changed the law. You are neoliberal where it suits you and where you need to serve others you are pursuing monopolistic policies. You have taken the RAL's responsibilities in order to pursue a policy towards and against Regulation 352 of the European Union on the basis of which we have legislated to ensure that competition in waste is effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u22	Close with this, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u23	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. So there we have the Perama case. 'COSCO' attempts to swallow this whole region, with great consequences. There is also the famous Scaramaga tank. We did a great deal of work by the SYRIZA government and you must recognize it. We have unleashed the country from international arbitration by the rival Arab investors, and now this competition must go ahead. I think you can make a plan in combination with the wells we want to build. And of course, we will support an effort to contribute to development. As in Elefsina's case, you said very easily, that magically you will resolve the issue of the shipyard and now you are being proved to be apprentice magicians, because this cannot really be solved. I should like to close, Mr President, on the issue of primary health care. The pandemic made us all wiser. I don't want to open a word right now to make anyone sorry. You also now recognise the role of the National Health System, which you have been colluding for forty years. All together we need to discuss in a public debate on the creation of public health, primary health in the community, namely a preventive interdisciplinary, cross-sectoral intervention in the community to promote health. Because only in this way will pandemics and epidemics be dealt with, creating precisely the conditions for intervention in the family environment. Because whatever hospitals can build, it'll be a funnel. Without that it means that we must not support and discuss together again all about the new architecture of the National Health System in the light of the experiences it has given us so far to support this area. So the primary school is nonexistent. The doctors in the TOMY, you got them for the vaccination centers. People feel insecure. There's an openness that I want to put on the table in an honest manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u24	Shall we put it in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u25	I'm closing, Mr. President. To discuss together whether a solution can be found for doctors who are already in court with the Ministry. I believe in a dialogue. Since we see that the situation is very difficult and it is necessary for them to be present, we can find a solution and remain until the people are retired from the Greek state. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u26	Be well, though you have escaped a lot. You should know that. I'll say hello to Mr. Friend, whom I see to be ready. You have three minutes. Incorporate both minutes of dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u27	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u28	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u29	I would like to begin by interpreting the Chamber as well, by greeting teachers in Damasi Ellassonas, where with coolness and conscientiousness these people have tried and succeeded in helping sixty three children during the earthquake to come out unharmed and harmless. And it's another serious sign that the teacher gives himself the best and always achieves the best for our children. Instead of that, what does the teacher receive? It receives a blind, vengeful policy on the part of the government with the nicknamed evaluation. You will know that 90% of teachers refuse under these conditions to carry out a false assessment, which is not about checking the level of study and supply in schools, but about restoring inspection to education, that is an anachronistic option. I hope that there will be positive developments and that the Ministry will take this reaction into account. Without teachers there are no schools. Without Mrs. Keramos, there can be better schools. And now I'm going to the Western Attica issues. It is true that West Attica has many problems that are exacerbated by pandemic. Social inequalities, as we know, are champions in the lives of people in western Attica. The class choice is always present. I'm going to say a few clues and suggestions. First - first - we have the overnumbered sections of twenty-five, twenty-six students and students in all the municipalities in this region. The same does not apply to other regions of Athens and the territory. Secondly, we have old school buildings, school infrastructure. I'm going to set an example. Since the 2019 earthquake, schools will still be repaired in Petroupoli and Aegaleo, with children sharing in other schools, children going to rented small rooms that are former shops and do not even have a yard space. So they have not repaired school buildings, and I do not understand why we are still staying in this loose end. In Petroupoli it is necessary to create a twelfth grade, which is all they say and do not do by the government. West Attica has the specialty of hosting many special education and vocational training schools. In the large special vocational education and training school in Aigalo, children, students with specific autism issues, mobility problems and others are co-administered, as well as the OSCE with adult students. There are many measures to be taken for the pandemic, which teachers, such as test, have asked for, as a priority, both for teachers and for children. Unfortunately, however, we have spent the whole story of Lockdown without special measures being taken for teachers and pupils in special schools. There is a need to create new buildings, separate special training units throughout the Western Attica and not to confuse our children and unite in single centres. During this pandemic we have seen other issues which have arisen and which I shall refer to immediately below. I just want to say that the building problem has deteriorated in Cameroon, where we have the 8th Municipal School to be prevalent in a boiler room, but also in Ilio, where we have the 5th and 11th Municipal School to be in buildings inappropriate that remind the 1960s. The finalization of the accommodation of the Special Preschool of Ilio is also pending. We have major problems in pre-school education throughout western Athens which are not treated. I would like to ask on this occasion: will the institution of pre-school education function throughout Greece this year, in all the municipalities? It sounds like you want to transfer preschool education to the municipalities, get it out of the education system and somehow the Ministry of Labour is involved. I would like a clear answer to what is happening with regard to pre-school education, which the SYRIZA Government has legislated and made progress. Sadly, this has gone up against the New Democracy Government. Unfortunately, there are also problems in school libraries. They stayed where we left them in 2017. The story now of telecommunications is another proof that we have social inequalities that are growing in the region. One in two kids, he goes through a cell phone. You think so, with a cell phone, it could be a lesson? We also have a complaint from the Municipality of Agia Varvaras about the unacceptable situation in the infrastructure for children with televised training. What measures do you intend to take? You announced with a 90 million programme that they'd get five hundred thousand laptop children in schools. Already February would have finished sharing the laptops. It hasn't started yet. We still see the ministry runs to have the competition. A year after the pandemic began many words, many "will", "will", "but nothing, with public money to deal with the school need and the inequality of telecommunications. There are other issues. I referred to schools earlier. The Recovery Fund, which finances green development, as we know, can be used to upgrade school buildings energy. Has the Ministry put it on his schedule? We don't see it. In the inequalities to which I have referred are school meals. Seventy - thirty - one primary schools in the region received school meals. These were automatically cut now, as you have seen, suddenly due to the incompetence and idealism of the New Democracy Government who has not taken the steps to make the competition in time and the children in the pandemic, for over a week, have not taken a meal. I'll be done. I talked about social inequalities. We've got a lot of kids going to espresso schools in West Attica. I shall submit to the House the letter of the 1st Esperian High School of Aigaleo. They protest children, they are anxious because with the new law, which reduces the invaders, the children from the middle school cannot enter the universities. It's also a tough class choice. I'm done with the University of West Attica. Founded in the government of SYRIZA, it was absolutely necessary and reflected the level of study, infrastructure and teaching staff at the University of Western Attica. Previous governments were dealing with the West Attica as a university desert. The establishment, establishment of this university gives the West Attica another direction for a university that can have synergy with the municipalities in the region for the development of the region. Unfortunately, however, this is also being abandoned. Why? We have departed from the educational staff, the teaching staff, which should immediately be replaced by the law of SYRIZA "one leaves and one hired". They shall not be replaced and staff reduced. However, even the professional rights of children have not gone ahead, although they had made a significant contribution to the SYRIZA government, and this issue, in particular, the parts of the engineers. None of this has gone any further, it's all gone up. It is obvious that the government is facing the PADA, the University of Western Athens, not as an equal university institution that needs to be strengthened further, but sees it as something of an inconsistency in an area that the Prime Minister's perception should only come out of cooling. Mr President, I shall conclude soon. I'm asking three questions. First, preschool education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u30	Three questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u31	I'd be done if you didn't interrupt me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u32	You're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President. Second, will there be a high school theme bank this year in the dissolution situation of the coronary? Third, evaluation of schools. 90% of teachers are against the way the government wants to assess. Will he insist? These are crucial issues relating to the functioning of schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Mr. Friend is elected in 1st Athens. I forgot to say it before. We now go to the B3' South Athens Sector at SYRIZA with Mr Nikolaos Papapas. Mr. Pappa, would you like your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u35	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u36	All right, all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. For twenty months the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has unfortunately been in constant lockdown. Time has been frozen since July 2019 and since then we have only heard announcements unfortunately. Every day the same announcements over and over again. The reason for this is that infrastructure projects are generally delayed, but the only thing that the government has achieved in this area is to disperse rumours for redesign, block roadworks and return in some cases badly, losing all this time, to the design that we had started. And, of course, I think that the position, which has been heard - and I am very sorry to hear it from people who are scientists - cannot be criticised that in the public transport sector the coronary is not stuck or we have no evidence that there is an increased dispersion. One year later, the competition for the seventy-five buses was cancelled, it was not reopened, and of course, all ninety-two buses that Rena Douru had prepared and had prepared funding from the Attica Region. The choice made is that there should be a contract with the CBS. We have tabled specific questions, they have not been answered by the Ministry, and of course, as the previous Members of SYRIZA have said, here there is also a bias in relation to specific areas of the Athens town complex and in this case in West Athens, where in Line 2, to see its extension, I think we should wait too long, because it took Mr Karamanlis eighteen months to open the dossiers for the extension of the line, for Line 4. For Line 2, I imagine we'll have the same standby problems. Also, the lines associated with the existing Metro line, and the A13 and 700 and 747, come out with hundreds of citizens from the lines, crowding, delays, problems. Particular attention needs to be paid to this. Other issue: The Radio Park. In July 2018 we handed it over to the municipality and the design was ERT's responsibility and a very small amount as required to reconstruct existing buildings and make a park and a Radio Museum there. Nothing happened. Could this work really upgrade the quality of life there. Allow me now, because there is not much time, to raise two issues and close. We visited Damasi and Mesochori yesterday in Thessaly. We want to invite you from the position of accelerating counterpopulation very quickly to give the first money to people. I have to say that I met the engineers who make the first recordings, and that's good. But, Mr Contozamani - I am glad that you are here today - to announce an emergency vaccination programme for all the people who are there. They gather on the benches of Civil Protection to get a portion of food twice a day. They live in the tents. They use common toilets. We had the chance in our misfortune not to mourn human victims. It's gonna be a huge injustice. I do not want to raise the tons for the bypassion of the series by some who were not entitled to them and were finally vaccinated. You must now announce an emergency vaccination programme for these people and protect them. I am not saying that I found myself absent from the state. I won't exaggerate. I won't say exaggerations. There were engineers there who record the damage. We will see in the next few days whether these people will receive the first money so that they can continue to live. But you must also guarantee their vaccination today. Finally, Mr Drasakis said so. I would also like to point out that. We have noted the problems with the micro-credit programme and the conflict of interest in relation to the competence of the Central Bank, and as far as we know, it is an issue that the European Central Bank itself has mentioned when discussing with it the way in which this programme will be implemented and we have these problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President. Secondly, very important. Mr. Georgiadis, this is where you need to intervene. Rumor is that the Greek Government's position is that the Recovery Fund should be channelled through the Greek banks to the market. Here I have a post from "KATHMERINI". It's only in English. I don't know why. It's not in English. It came one day after the timely question of the Change Movement on the issue of banks and funding. And the report says that the position of the Greek government is that of the Recovery Fund to go through the banks. Do you understand what message this is on the market? We are heard by people of the market, small and medium-sized enterprises. Anyone who has been excluded from the state guarantee programmes for COVID and TEPIX, because the criteria were the banking criteria, is also excluded from the funds from the Recovery Fund. If that's not the case, we'll be happy to hear it. I don't know, it's a matter of competence. We would particularly like you who are Minister for Development to hear what is going to happen with this money, which is obviously being delayed. Unfortunately, it is not the'saint record' which will guarantee the recovery of the economy in the way you manage it. But this option, if it is the case, is criminal, because we will only have the businesses which are responsible for the banks having access to this money as well. I would therefore like to invite you to answer the substance and if the post is valid, to change the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u38	Since you called him, he'll be here. I understand the agony of all of us for the people the brain hit. Of course, make a report. Besides, today is Mr. Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution there. But let us not get away from this because the question of questions is limited only to the subject raised by the question. From the government's point of view, the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis has the floor. Mr. Georgiadis, I'm not saying it. It's the Rules of Procedure here. The time of dentology is not offset by the time of the protology that is twenty minutes. Rules say so, not me. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I too would like to join my voice in favour of the people of Ellas and the continuing adventure that they are going through. I should like to congratulate the teachers who have done this very good job and to assure the entire Greek delegation that the state is actually present in the first few minutes. The Secretary-General for Infrastructure was there in less than an hour and a half. He left the House directly and went to Elassona. The workshops are already recording, the district is there and they know very well from the case of Carditsa and the great floods we had unfortunately a few months ago, that the way we handled the tragedy was exemplary. Money has already been paid. You will certainly have heard the statements by Mayor Carditsas and all the local bodies about how pleased they are from the speed with which the state operated, for the first time in the history of the Greek state. At the same speed and the same working structure as we have built for Elassona, as we will be next to every affected area. The same happened in Samos that we had the earthquake in the Hersonissos of Crete, where we had the floods and so on. We are now a state that works directly, critically and effectively. So that's what you're saying. Depending on what happens, the state is there. To welcome to the National Representation and Mr. Kurubli, who I had never seen before after his return to the Heroes. Very welcome and good rest of service. I come a little bit to the part we're talking about. I read Mr Giannis Drasakis' speech in the Minutes beforehand. Unfortunately, I had an obligation, and I went in a little late, and I didn't hear it, but I read his speech. I have said many times that I have great respect for Mr Drasakis and for what he has done. We obviously have ideological differences, but I very much like to hear his proposals and try to see whether or not they can be implemented and to what extent they can be implemented. First of all, I should like to begin by asking Mr Pappas, who was personal to me at the end of his speech, to be informed. The Recovery Fund has a number of money in it. It has a part which is subsidized, that is to say, money that will be made available through the state for the implementation of the various projects. This money will not go through the banks, they will go through the state structures for the implementation of the various projects. There is also a piece of loans, which should be repaid at some point, low-priced loans, extremely low-priced loans, other loans. These loans are not yet determined, not only by us, but by the European institutions, how they will be used. It is certainly not decided at European level.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u40	There's a recommendation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u41	I am in these negotiations, Mr Pappa. Last Thursday I had the negotiation with the Principals on this issue. I'm telling you it's not determined. Obviously a portion of these loans - our proposal is all, and the 12 billion - will be exploited through the Greek Development Bank, which is the vehicle that the Greek state has built just to deal with these issues. This Bank is doing very well. Now, the Greek Development Bank with these 12 billion of the Recovery Fund will build a variety of products. After all, yesterday's amendments to the House for the Development Bank enable us to use this money with direct bank loans where the criteria can be more relaxed than the banking criteria, but of course a large part will go through the banking system. First of all, for you, who were my shadow minister at first, you know that the difference between direct lending from the Development Bank, which we have so far not borrowed anyone directly and through the banks is what we call leverage. So, for someone to understand it very well, when you get one billion dollars and borrow it without bank criteria, you lend 1 billion. Why is that? Because since the criteria are down, the risk is increased, i.e. the money is not repaid. But when you take through the banking system and agree to a controlled risk, for example, in TPIX or in our guarantee system, 1 billion has been translated into 3.5 billion. That's the leverage, because you share the risk with the banks, you choose businesses that are supposed to return the money, so you say how many of them will not return it, and you make an algorithm, and that multiplys the money. In other words, to understand it more simply, Mr Pappas, if you decide to share 12 billion, you will have shared 12 billion, as we do now, for example, in repayable advances. If you make a loan through the banking system 12 billion, that could be up to 40 billion dollars. That's the difference. So because you've been a minister, don't fight for the self-evident. I must also tell you something else, which may be our ideological difference, although after you have ruled, I think not so much. I want to be very honest with that. I know that this position may be a little unpopular. Should money be given to businesses as loans - I am not saying as a subsidy, subsidisation is another thing - without banking criteria? I want to be very honest with that. My answer is, no. No, for the following two reasons: The first reason is that if he gives money without bank criteria, what you say is that the loans are not repaid. So you're saying to build a new round of red loans, especially if they've been channelled through the banking system, that is, if they're having an impact on our deposits, they also lead to the well-known vicious cycle that led to the successive recapitalisations of the Greek banking system, the events of 2015, etc. Don't repeat it. Tragic mistake. One of the reasons for the crisis that occurred in 2010 was that they had greatly lowered the banking criteria at the time by the banks. A second reason why you should not grant loans without bank criteria - and this, too, I think, may be of interest to understand and explain it to our fellow citizens - is that you are intervening extremely violently in competition between companies. When a company receives a loan and returns it, it has a cost for that money. This cost is translated into costs for its products and services. When a company gets a loan and because you've given it without bank criteria, she knows that she might not return it and she doesn't return it, this company gets a competitive advantage over the other company that works right. So you're creating a problem not only by banking, but also by creating a problem in the market. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, with the money of the Recovery Fund, is not to build a clean Greece and a poor economy, which will be shattered in the first nature of the wind. Our aim is to use this money wisely, wisely and correctly. We must build a future with this money, which will not be for the next few years. It will be for the next 100 years and will create an economy that will produce wealth and prosperity for us, for our children and our grandchildren. So, Mr Pappa, do not try in a populist way to overcome the basic principles of the economy. Banking criteria didn't come up with us, you didn't find them. They apply to all countries of the world, and that's right, because that's how the economy goes. I'm closing the parentheses. I now go to the questions that SYRIZA asked, to come back to Mr. Drasakis and to what he mentioned, which I found interesting. First of all, you have asked me - to come a little bit on my responsibilities - how much money was provided from the repayable advances, how much money was provided by the Development Bank, TEIX II and guarantees, and how much money was provided by the Ministry of Development's NSRF programmes. So that I don't read them one, I'm filing them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our answers are very detailed, not of course with VDUs and names, as these are sensitive personal data, but with a number of companies, total amounts disbursed, per West Attica municipality, so that it can be made clear to everyone that none of the programmes we did left out of West Attica, as was falsely heard. I can tell you, of course, that you will find from our answers that in fact in TEPIX, but also in the returnees, the Western Attica has received a higher percentage than the Greek average. I can say that from the new programme of the Ministry of Development, which concerns funding of up to EUR 50,000 for loans to businesses, precisely because of the size of the loan that is smaller and therefore is aimed at very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, I suspect that we will also have a much larger percentage in western Athens, which has such characteristics in its economy. So from the new program West Athens has a lot to benefit. I listened very carefully and read your question where it was to support the supposedly view of the Government to underestimate western Athens. No falseer of this! Why would the Government of the New Democrat Republic and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who chose to be elected MP in West Athens, want to underestimate Western Athens? It's completely false! To support now this false argument, you have in - and it gave me great impression - and the part of Scaramaga and the yielding of a piece of land to the next buyer of the shipyards, instead of giving the Municipality of Heidari, to what extent is the region's request and "how bad government you are and against western Athens, which you did not accept the request of the Municipality of Heidari". Excuse me, would you drive me crazy? The relief plan of the Skaramaga shipyard, received by me and Mr Stagioras, has been received from the company - even the consultant and the liquidator who makes the project - by the previous Syriza government, and from my predecessor at the Ministry of Development and Investment Mr Stergios Pitsirla. I asked the clearer and the company if Mr. Pitsirlas had said that this piece of land should go to the Municipality of Haidari and not to the EBRD and the contest for Scaramaga. The answer was explicit and unequivocal: "Never, from the outset this part was for the Scaramaga shipyards in SYRIZA's Pichiorla Plan". I'm sorry, guys, the plan that we have continued for the shipyards, which your government has signed, your Minister with your own clearer and your own consultant, will you come here today and present it as an example of how bad a government is Mitsotakis who wants to go against the city of Heidari? But, well, don't you have a little shame in SYRIZA? Oh, boy, a little embarrassment! The JRC yelling, has not signed the plan, and the JRC's colleague is right. But you who have prepared this project have put it in the question as an example of how against us are we in western Athens? But aren't you guys ashamed of you guys in SYRIZA? Aren't you ashamed in you? Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for the high tone, but at some point opposition must also have some dignity. So you must not suddenly forget that you have ruled, you cannot delete from your brain that you have done all this and certainly if you try to delete it, you do not delete it from the Greek people, so that we can finish it! So I am going through this as an example of what this SYRIZA is. Unfortunately, you don't have a brain. You have lost national, European elections, regional, municipal, you have lost unions, you have lost trade unions, you have lost clubs, you are losing in polling, you are not mindful! You stay the same! It's awesome! Instead of staying seriously, what we are going to do in western Athens and say five serious things, such as what Mr Drasakis said - I accept it, they were five serious proposals - sit down and write these things in the question, as if we are all ammunition. Hey, we're not! I'm on it now. First of all, let me not forget, it is not about western Athens, it is about the West Attica, but it is about the West Attica, and I say it is very much, and it is as an example, that the government does not care about what our fellow citizens who are in a better economic position than others - and they have more serious problems. I would like to tell you that it was signed yesterday by the Ministry of Development and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Tsakir, and the procedure is progressing. Soon, in the next few days, the invitation of a new ESDP programme, which will be a subsidy to enterprises in retail trade, to those firms in the areas that were closed with stricter lockdown, to quarantine during the holiday season and which could not operate either by the click away method with which the rest of the market was operating during the holiday season. So, in areas in western Attica - Elefsina, Aspropyrgos and others - where during the holiday season they were in a hard lockdown and were unable to sell any of the retail companies by any means due to the exceptional and very strict measures at that time to deal with the pandemic, or in the area of Kozani in western Macedonia, they will receive an exceptional grant - not repayable, not a loan - EUR 3 000 each retailer and EUR 1 000 each worker - just to show that these enterprises which were in a more favourable position than others, the rest of the like companies in the whole territory because of an accident in the treatment of pandemic will receive and will receive more favourable treatment and more support from the government. None of our own government cares about the people in West Athens and West Attica, otherwise. We very much want to help them solve the major problems and therefore also a number of major projects, such as the extension of the Metro that you are writing that was launched by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis a few months ago and is moving on. And that's what you're wrong with. What are you presenting as your only great achievement during your period of government in West Athens? It's founded, he says, by the University of Western Athens! This refers to your question as your great work of five years of government. I mean, it's the rename of the TEI, which was, of course, and you didn't make it at all, at university! That's what you did! It was a change of label! Did you build any university in West Athens, and didn't you find it, or did you find it all ready by the previous governments? And that's what I think we're out of reality. So the government, under extremely difficult conditions, is all trying to deal with the problems. To reply to Mr Drasakis a little while ago on whether it would be worth it, if - he proposed it to us - we should make a special development programme for western Athens, I would say that this has an interest. I do not exclude it, and I do not consider it to be a wrong proposal. We could discuss it calmly and soberly for the future. In the midst of a pandemic, however, this is my main disagreement - it is difficult to do so. The main reason is that, in the midst of pandemic problems, it is not just Western Athens. Greece has huge problems, and a government that is government of all Greeks in the midst of this crisis cannot say: "I do something special for one region, no matter what else". And, of course, the resources we have are not inexhaustible. A special development plan, for example, is being prepared, as you know, for western Macedonia. But there we started it before the pandemic. This development plan is being "built" because there is liberation which changes the structure of the economy in this region. Now we don't have something that changes the economy of western Athens in relation to before. I accept the arguments that it is at a disadvantage and, therefore, we need to find ways to solve these people's problems, but under no circumstances has anything dramatically changed in West Athens in relation to the other regions of the country to say that we will specifically exclude Western Athens and leave all the others behind. But when the pandemic passes - and that is where I find Mr Drasakis' proposal interesting - and there will be a normality in our economy and a return to normality, then because I accept that West Athens has special features that have left it behind in relation to other Athens regions over the past decades, yes, there we need to discuss how we can put Western Athens first and give these people more opportunities. At this time of normality we will be present, in order to have this debate and to be effective, as we have done so far. In conclusion, I would like to say to all my fellow citizens, both in western Athens and elsewhere, that our Government under these extremely unprecedented difficult conditions is trying to deal with the possibilities of the Greek state and the money we have, our resources so that it is as effective as possible. There will also be a communication of additional measures to support enterprises and for April, as long as the pandemic continues. We, too, have as a state to do what we can to keep our economy up. But we're close to the end of this adventure. Vaccination progresses very quickly. Greece is now at the forefront of the vaccinations in Europe, as Commissioner Schinnas announced yesterday. As all the statistics say, we are now in the first triangle of European Union countries to the speed of vaccination and we must congratulate the Ministry of Health for that. So we're at the end of the way. Just a few weeks of patience is needed, and this adventure will be behind us and we will proceed to a new era under much better conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor. Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not deal with and manage any crisis, how much rather this pandemic, without the proper and timely preparation of the National Health System of the wounded National Health System, the National Health System of the huge gaps and deficiencies we received from the SYRIZA Government, in which, as you are saying today, when you were government, everything was well burned and within a year and a half, everything collapsed. At this time, the strengthening of the National Health System is not theoretical, in no case can it be exploited partyly, and certainly to achieve it is not enough to make an unadulterated promise, such as the promises you made this week. So we have heard you talk about fifteen thousand five hundred permanent intakes of health at three years in depth, and I wonder if that is possible, when, in about four and a half years of your administration from January 2015 to June 2019, you have managed to proclaim more than half of all. In particular, eight thousand four hundred sixty - five positions in the ESS, two thousand seven hundred fifty - four doctors. On the other hand, it is the current New Democracy Government which, in practice, in eighteen months' time, has been able to carry out the publication of two thousand four hundred sixty-two positions of doctors of various specialties. So let us compare the numbers: two thousand seven hundred fifty-four permanent medical staff posts in four and a half years' government of SYRIZA, two thousand three hundred sixty-two permanent medical staff posts in eighteen months has been called by the New Democracy Government. In your plan, you also say that five and a half of the fifteen thousand permanent recruitments will be carried out directly and in the long term. Immediately reinforce health structures with staff means that in a maximum of one, two months' time, I have moved on to the recruitment of staff who have joined and took up their duties, which is impossible - we all know that - because the procedures are long and as much as we cannot get to this short period of time. Something possible, however, that, in the way we have implemented it in practice, and even in the midst of a pandemic, we have in the system more than eight thousand auxiliary doctors, nurses and other staff in the National Health System in addition to the proclamations of permanent staff who have been engaged in and directly taking up their duties and strengthening all structures of the National Health System in order to tackle the pandemic. This means that in practice the National Health System is being strengthened and not in words. As far as the content of the current question is concerned, I would remind you that hospitals such as Attica, from the largest hospitals of the National Health System of the country, a university hospital, was significantly enhanced by staff: one hundred and fifty and eight additional staff recruits, thirty-six doctors, eighty-six staff and thirty-eight permanent medical staff posts in three successive calls for permanent ESS doctor posts. Recruitment also took place at the other hospitals in the region: at the PNA "Dromocaeteio" thirty-seven recruitments, at the PNA "Daphni" forty, at the "Agia Varvara" forty-five. In progress are sixteen doctors’ crises in "Attica", two in PNA and three in "Dafni". In the 'Attiki' sixty-one doctors in 'Dafni' fifteen, the 'Dromocaete' ten and the 'Saint Barbara' ten. And that's just the beginning. Also, because I referred to hospitals in the area, to the protection of public health - it is a question of your timely question - additional measures were taken to manage coronary waste and waste. All waste - waste from health establishments where patients with possible or confirmed coronary infection are treated as infectious hospital waste and managed in accordance with the procedures of the health unit, the hospital infection committees, national and European legislation, the instructions of the Ministry of Health and EGE. In addition, all necessary measures have been taken to manage dead bodies and transfer human bodies from a coronary to a coronary, and health controls have been intensified in health structures and the role of hospital infections committees has also been strengthened. In addition to staff, infrastructure is a critical factor in operational preparedness and efficiency for health units and we have therefore implemented a concrete plan. At the heart of this project the intensive care units of the ESS were found. The more than doubled the units was necessary and it was implemented in record time. Let me remind the House of the emblematic donation of the National Representation, the Greek Parliament, with the construction and operation of fifty beds in an intensive care unit that began, completed and operated in two months' time. They are new modern intensive treatment units, with latest-tech equipment and fully staffed with the necessary medical and nursing personnel. In addition, we have the strengthening of the health system in infrastructure and equipment, the strengthening of the health system in personal protective equipment. For the first time, the country has managed and has the necessary strategic reserve in personal protection so that, if necessary, we have it available to us in order to protect both health workers, who provide health services, and our fellow citizens who come to health services. All these infrastructures, actions and actions that have been taken over the last year in the post-COVID era will significantly upgrade the possibilities of the National Health System so that we can move faster on to the necessary changes that the system needs to be made more effective and meet the needs of all citizens. In your question you refer in particular to budgetary weaknesses that afflict the National Health System, promoting so-called sub-financing and so-called reduced hospital budgets. No self-criticism about the unscrupulous financial situation in which you delivered the health system. I would remind you that, when we took over the head of the Ministry of Health, we were faced with a huge amount of unpunished expenses in hospitals due to the tactics followed by the SYRIZA government, to carry expenditure year-on-year. We have reduced the dues, recorded the costs of hospitalisation of refugees and migrants, and claimed and received how much for these costs. We have legislated on the effective accounting support of hospitals. We have legislated on redistributing budget appropriations between hospitals to ensure flexibility in decision-making. We have made it possible to clear clawback with investments in clinical studies and research and development expenditure and productive costs. We have strengthened hospital budgets in more cases. The original budget of the National Health System Hospitals in 2020 was set at EUR 1,753 billion, when the corresponding amount of EUR 1,619 billion in 2019 was EUR 1,619 billion. As regards the health ministry's budget for 2021 compared with 2020, only an increase of EUR 397.6 million was foreseen for the central agency, while an increase of EUR 172 million was foreseen for hospitals. In any case, these increases in appropriations must also be added to the additional appropriations allocated from the pandemic principle, the emergency needs of the National Health System, which have so far exceeded EUR 820 million. I would once again like to say something, because something has been said by the honourable Members on the question: the ESS does not only serve the incidents of COVID. The ESS operates and serves all our fellow citizens in need. As far as the questions which have been asked are concerned, I should first like to say a few things about vaccination. We all know that we have exceeded a million. In fact, yesterday’s day was closed to one million twenty - four thousand, fifty - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - The population coverage rate is 6.37% with the first dose of the vaccine and rises to 10% with the second dose of the vaccine. The total number of scheduled dates is one million four hundred fifty thousand. It was said that the vaccinations in the West sector of Athens are less than the centre of Athens or the northern suburbs. You tried to give a class mark to it. Let me tell you that all Attica is treated in the same way as regards vaccinations. We all know that the more vaccines we have, the more vaccinated centres we will open and the sooner each of our fellow citizens will be served. The Great Vegetable Center in Maroussi is coming our fellow citizens from all over Attica. It's not just the citizens of the northern suburbs. It has to do with the dates available in the vaccinated centres and where there is availability. Each of our fellow citizens, depending on the availability of the vaccine and the choice of a date at a certain point in time, can go to any vaccination centre in Attica. Let me note at this point that apart from the Maroussi Vaccine Center, in early April, the Great Vaccine Center will operate at the Peristeri Exhibition Center with ninety six vaccinated lines that will be able to vacate a hundred forty thousand people a month. You refer to your question at test and the conduct of diagnostic tests in the Regional Unity of the Western Sector. I should like to mention to the House that in the West Athens Regional Section they are attempting day-to-day steps of the EGE's mobile health teams, namely 18-1-2021 free sample checks are carried out on citizens in two stable places, in the Municipality of Haidari and in the Municipality of Ilio. Regular checks shall be carried out at teachers and pupils of special schools. Regular workers and beneficiaries checks are carried out in care units for the elderly and other welfare and care structures and free mass sampling at central points of the municipalities. Characteristics to date, actions have been carried out in the municipalities of Ilios, Haidari, Agia Varvaras, Agia Anargyra, Kamaterou, Petroupoli etc. and, of course, sample checks are carried out on officials from the municipal authorities. Subsidiary staff recruitment in primary health care units. In December 2020, five hundred and sixty-four recruitments were made for the vaccination centres first and then for primary health care and next week, the staff notice for the TMGs comes out. Also in West Attica are all designated vaccination centres in operation, forty-six vaccination centres in sixteen structures and the vaccination coverage of the population is close to 3%. The next time will also work in full development the remaining fourteen programmable vaccination lines and as I said the Great Vaccine Center at Peristeri Exhibition Center, which will also change the picture of vaccinations in the area. In conclusion, I would like to stress that what we have received and called on us to manage on its own is a great challenge. The progress that has even been made under these unprecedented and extremely unprecedented conditions is the proof of the enormous effort made by the government, not only to bring about this health crisis, but also to provide the Greek people with an effective and modern National Health System. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Contozamani. I have an unresolvedness from the honourable Members. This is Mr Zachariadis Konstantinos of the North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. He was faced with a problem that went beyond and could come to Stepma. Then we'll get to the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Zachariadis, should I put the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u45	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise for the inconvenience in the programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u48	These are human beings. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I really want to get out of the political context and party confrontation and be able to see the problems of these citizens, regardless of what they are voting on and how they are placed in the various issues, over a period of time. West Athens and West Attica are one of the most difficult districts of the Lecanopod, one of the most difficult districts in the country. If we go back to history, we will see that these neighborhoods have always lifted the large and the most - very heavy burden, whether this is called waste disposal, whether it is called industrial production, or other difficulties, which we all know are in that area. So, yes, when you're a government or an opposition, you can't see everything evenly. You have to put priorities, you have to see who's hurting the most, you have to see the special situations. You know very well, Mr Georgiadis, that I am not elected in that region, but that does not mean that I do not care what is going on a few miles away from our homes. I have been following the places you have made and various questions have been born to me. First of all, I don't know if we're living in the same country. Has the Minister of Development come here in this country that has gone through these terrible difficulties, after ten years of being in the memoranda, that we would take off from the memorials, but did we not take off, and then the pandemic came to us to discuss the real economy and real entrepreneurship on the basis of the banking criteria? What does banking criteria mean, Minister? Of course, there must be criteria, but you who are Minister for Development have not come to you thousands of e-mails in your offices, saying that to get a loan or a guarantee or financing you have to prove that you don't need it? Does anybody say we don't have any criteria? Does anyone say throwing money out of the helicopter and whoever got it, it took?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u50	What criteria? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u51	Let us discuss them, discuss this issue of financing the real economy. You've been out and you've put a label "enterprises - zombies". This is a plan to level small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. They are outside the banking system, but many of them are on the market. Have you heard that? Out of the banking system and inside the market! They fight each day on their own, with their family. Are we going to help them stand on their feet, or are we going to get them to merge them, to make the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises in larger groups, with 1/2, 1/3 or 1/5 of their wage payroll today? This is the big question for the next ten years of the Greek economy. The Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Valdis Dombrovskis, made yesterday a statement on the escape clause, that it extends to 2022 and that its return will be discussed in 2023. Is this a serious and important tool to be used by the Greek economy? At a time when Mr Dombrovskis made this position, the next morning hundreds of thousands of businesses received their e-mail information from the repayable advance that they are not beneficiaries of the next instalment. So here's the opportunity, Minister. Now that there's fiscal relaxation in the Eurozone, give your oxygen bubbles to the real economy to survive, to start after a better position. Put the voices on! Mr Georgiadis always begins and says "I do not want to raise the tone" and after two minutes the microphones suffer. You ask if the opposition, SYRIZA and how we're oppositioning you. You say that? Do you understand what Opposition you have in front of you? Does he understand, Mr. Georgiadis? Do you remember what opposition, Mr. Contozamani, did the New Republic's flu health staff? Do you remember them? We don't even do 1/10 of this to you. You were coming here telling us about hundreds of dead people from the flu. And Mr. Georgiadis comes here today and says if we have dignity. Of course! Of course we have dignity. Of course we made a whole proposal, three hours ago, but many media were not found to highlight SYRIZA's proposal. Does the Minister come here and ask if we have dignity? Of course, we are making a different opposition, because we want the progressive government that we are building tomorrow, to be different in spirit, in style and in actions from you. Because, as you were dreadful and unacceptable and iso-destructive and disastrous Opposition, you are also a bad government, away from the problems of citizens. We do not want to be such a government, because we know that, in the way you do, we will come to rule in very difficult hours. And the best argument of all is what Mr Petsas said the other day, but Mr Georgiadis said so. Don't talk, he says, 'cause you're missing yourself in polling. I mean, that's an answer for everything. Whether you're doing great or you're messing up, we can't talk. And there's the presumption that you're doing well because you're doing well in polling. You here, Mr. Brutsi, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Kontozamani, are not politicians. I'm sorry to say this thing, but you're public products. They're directing you. You can't take political initiatives. You cannot assume political responsibilities because you are committed to polling. Do you know what will happen though? One day, the polls will be overturned and then you will understand that the country is not governed by you or your politicians, it is governed by the polls, and that is too dangerous for a country, which is at the ravine of many crises, that is to say to govern the polls and the polls rather than the politicians. Mr. Contozamanis, two questions to close. We've been through, he says, one million vaccinations. Of course, this is very important. On the basis of the earlier statements, this had to happen from January every month. These are statements by Mr. Pechas, the relevant ministers, and so on. In any case, we did so on 5 March, and by the end of the month we will have reached one million seven hundred thousand. Yes, sir. How many people in the country are immune from this? What about the others? Because we're entering the third wave of the pandemic in Attica, and you're celebrating that we're inoculated with a million. Yes, sir. What about everyone else? Do you not understand that the unimportant obsession of the government with regard to vaccination, without changing the functioning of public transport, without changing a number of things in the health system, brings us back late because of the European failure in the issue of vaccinations and within the third cycle of pandemic? Isn't that a problem? Is that a success? Also, what about the private ICUs? Will you proceed or "brake" beds, as happened in Thessaloniki in November and December? I say this because progress has certainly been made on how we started in March 2020, but here we do not have a health system for all diseases, we have a COVID health system and that is done for a year. People get sick of other things. When you have a one-thematic health system, that's too dangerous. Have you seen, Mr. Kontozamani, the average deaths in Greece from 2010 to 2019? Leave the COVID out. Have you seen what happened in 2020 and what happens in 2021? So this is where we need to open up an entire debate, ideologically, programmatically, on how we organise the health system and the private and the public in crisis and out of crisis. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you know it's an organized conversation. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u55	He'll be gone after. I'm not gonna answer anything but one. The rest I'll tell in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u56	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u57	Mr Zachariadis, we have never said - and certainly not me - that you cannot speak because you are losing in polling. That would be extremely undemocratic on our part and extremely arrogant. I tried to make you understand, because in my opinion you're losing in polling. In other words - and you have not responded here - I have not generally spoken about your dignity. I talked about one particular thing, that in your question you blame us for a decision on the Scaramaga shipyards and the Haidari Municipality, a decision taken by the SYRIZA Government and Mr Pitsirlas. So you had the opportunity to say: No, Mr. Pitsirlas or yes, Mr. Pittsorlas was given this because we might have changed our position. Instead of talking about this, you made a general reference to avoid a bitter glass. So I'll repeat it. As long as you fight this way, i.e. lying, you will, in my opinion, lose in polling. As far as we are concerned - and I close, Mr President - we are neither arrogant nor I believe that we will always win the elections, nor that we will always win the polls. We fight and work hard every day to gain the confidence of the Greek people and always the Greek people have the inalienable right, whenever he thinks, to change their minds for us and for anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much. We continue with the parliamentary representatives. The reason for Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou's speech is SYRIZA's Progressive Alliance for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, would also like to express our solidarity and solidarity with our fellow people who have been tested in the last few days in Thessaly in the areas of Tyrnavos. I would also like to turn to you, Mr Ministers, to ask for all the necessary measures to be taken to ensure that immediate relief and support are given, because it is unfortunately a test under way, as we had the second major earthquake vibration. Mr Contozamanis, in particular we must insist that all the necessary health measures be taken, because the information we have is that this is a very difficult situation. There are also public health issues and hygiene issues. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would also like to repeat what Mr Nicos Pappas said earlier, namely to speed up the vaccinations, so that there are no problems and pandemic cases within the overall misfortune that people are currently experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen, the question tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance for Western Athens - is a question which expresses the concern of the people of western Athens, the concern of the workers, the unemployed, the young people, the anxiety of an area which has always been faced with very economic and social problems, the problems of quality of life, but which, unfortunately, in recent months, have been exacerbated in the crisis of pandemic and with oligopolysms and shortcomings on the part of the Government of New Democracy. The reality, however, is that the government's overall management and response to the pandemic crisis a year after it has been sealed by failure. We are talking about a government which continues to deal with pandemic with its logic of'seeing and doing', without a plan, with recurring, with fireworks and, unfortunately, with ideologies and political purposes. First of all, let us begin with the issue of health and treatment in terms of the health crisis. Mr. Kontozamani, because you referred earlier to the SYRIZA government, the evidence is clear and must be submitted to the House. SYRIZA received the National Health System in 2015 from the Government of Samaras with eighty-nine staff and handed over in July 2019 the HSY with a hundred thousand four hundred fifty workers in the National Health System. The government of SYRIZA proceeded to nineteen thousand five hundred permanent and subsidiary recruitments during the period of its administration, of which eight thousand seven hundred were permanent, medical and nursing personnel. These are, to restore the truth, because a lot is constantly said on your part. Because you mentioned the ten thousand recruitments that during the three-year period we propose with our programme for the National Health System and because you were wondering "we, how can these recruitments be made?" I must tell you that when I was Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, in the autumn of 2018, Mr. Paulakis, who is here, together with Mr. Xanthos, had come to the Ministry and then we agreed and announced ten thousand permanent recruitments to four years, starting directly from 2019, for which, because we had now come out of the memorandum, we had ensured with the rule of one of the appropriations and had been integrated into the budget planning and financial staff. What was the reality that followed after the elections? As you had the obsessed at that time to return to one by five, and in fact cancel all possible support for the National Health System, but overall the public sector, which was downgraded in the period of the financial crisis and the decade, in fact, "frozen" all these approved recruitments that would have been launched. Because you're wondering 'we'd have had time?', imagine you hadn't canceled. At the moment of the ten thousand permanent recruitments that were then announced would have been at least half of them, they would have taken over and imagine how different the state of the National Health System, which we now see in Attica, the major hospitals being in red, would be different. Because we are talking about western Athens, I want to present in the minutes the announcement of the employees at the "Attica" Hospital, which is a hospital with a university and standard, where they say the doctors themselves, the nurses and the workers are currently in red, with a ranch. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] People have enormous fatigue. There is not the necessary support that should be given. Instead, you come here and tell us what nice you've done with it. Even now you have the same insistence not to proceed with the necessary permanent recruitment to the National Health System and to make permanent investments. But why is all this happening? Because in fact since last March you wanted to deal with pandemic as something passing through so that you did not move on to permanent measures for the National Health System. Sadly, of course, the development of your pandemic has devastated you. Why did you really want to make permanent recruitments in the sense, as you said in your election programme, to go further to support for the private health sector, who does not contribute on your own responsibility to the extent that we should be dealing with the pandemic - we have seen it in Thessaloniki, we see it now in Attica and the other regions - but also to privatise the services of the ESS according to your logic. You didn't do the necessary mass test. Mr. Georgiadis yesterday, in reply to the President of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, said, "But why do you make us this accusation at the time when we have set a platform to become a test for free". The difference, Mr Georgiadis, is that this platform is for voluntary opportunities for citizens to go to the test. However, what we are saying to you and to which we have not been answered a year now is that there must be a systematic test, not a voluntary one, but where there are real problems, in the structures, where there are population concentrations, in the workplace. We cannot in the workplace, with a downgraded RCF, do not carry out the corresponding checks, as you do not continue to do them. And, of course, it has been mentioned before fellow Members, in public transport, there is still no densification of the routes that should be resolved in order to solve the problem with regard to the issues of workers and the millions of people who are transported daily by public transport. And over there, according to what you said to us in the fall, there's no question of dispersing the pandemic. Finally, because you have referred to vaccination, we naturally support the vaccination programme. But you made a very big mistake. Since the autumn - and we have warned you about this - you have been communicating and created a climate of complacentness. Clearly, vaccination must be supported. You saw, however, that now that there are problems in Europe too, as regards the supply of vaccines, how much we have left behind in the real support of all those preventive measures that should have been taken for the National Health System too. We heard Mr Mitsotakis for the first time last week from this Step to speak and say that there should be no reassurance about vaccines. That's right. But who has cultivated the reassurance surrounding the vaccination in order not to take all the other measures? So, even now, you must actually and truly strengthen controls, mass tests and, of course, recruitment to the National Health System. I would like here, Mr Contozamani, to close with the part of the Ministry of Health, to refer also to a very strong demand for students in medical schools in relation to the laboratories - I do not know whether you will have anything to answer us - but also to the decision of the Rectors' Conference which asked the Government, with measures, of course necessary, to have a programming, to open up universities, of course, while respecting all these measures, as is a year already closed. Unfortunately, however, from the government's point of view, the same flaw and failure occur in the economic and labour sector. The reality is it's your choice. Because it was your choice not to support the real economy in the first place, fueling the recession, not to support the small and medium-sized ones, not to support jobs. Indeed, Mr Georgiadis - and I believe that you may even disagree with what I am about to say now, I mean by the attitude your Government has taken on these issues - there is no justification that, at the time of so many months in Lockdown, either lighter or heavier, and in a new outbreak of pandemic, we have an exception of 60% of small and medium-sized enterprises from the sixth advance. And much more I cannot imagine that you agree with the joint ministerial decision by Mr Stavoura and Mr Hatzidakis the other day, which excludes fifty thousand undertakings, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in terms of suspensions of contracts. I am presenting in Minutes the announcement made by GATT yesterday and I know that there is a corresponding reaction from the chambers where your interlocutors are, because you understand that here we have the absurdity not only that you have not taken all the necessary forward measures in time, but that you are already starting to reduce the measures, while we are in the middle of a lockdown, exaltation, this difficult March. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And what does this exception mean to the fifty thousand businesses? Businesses themselves will be hurt, because work and business support are interconnected, but you are also opening the door to mass redundancies. That's the reality. And Mr. Brutsis is here, and I'm sure he agrees with me. And you, as Minister, think that you agree too. Rescind this decision immediately. It's absurd, it's challenging and it's arbitrary. In his communication, Mr. Kavathas says it was also surprising. There was not even a preparation, a dialogue on these issues. So the issues here are specific. You must also withdraw the bankruptcy bill because the deadline has expired - as you know - to put it into practice. Now you have to announce these decisions. And finally take a clear position that you will proceed to a brave haircut of private debt that has been formed during the pandemic period. SYRIZA doesn't say so. The businessmen say so themselves, the chambers say so, the GFCF says so. Without this there can be no recovery of the economy, but one in both companies will close with what that means to the economy, with what that means to the workers. And because you referred before, Minister, to the banking criteria, I would like to say the following: the European Central Bank has allocated all the previous months concrete amounts to the European banking system as a whole in order to support small and medium-sized enterprises and to support the real economy. Because Europe is working in a Kenyan policy in contrast to your own government and the obsessions of neoliberalism and market logic at times of crisis. Do you know what the Bank of Greece figures say? And SYRIZA doesn't say it. It says that these loans - precisely in your logic of going to the logic of the banking criteria, namely, where there is no need to borrow to stand by the companies - went mainly to certain large companies and groups and did not even go to investment and support the real economy, even from these companies, but went to deposits. These are elements of the Bank of Greece and are not a sterile opposition of SYRIZA. I'll say a few words about Scaramaga. Minister, you said we should tell the truth. So the truth is that the SYRIZA government and workers' fighting kept the Scaramag shipyards open, and even through the War Navy programs that the Minister of Defence of your Government admitted. And I would remind you that Mr Mitsotakis, in his speech in Thessaloniki in September, promised that the workers would not lose their jobs, that they would stay open. And what did we see? A proclamation came out - and it was not SYRIZA's responsibility, and we asked you a question at that time, and you never came to answer us - which did not hold back the jobs, did not hold back the jobs. We had even come out at the time and had asked for it to be cancelled. Eventually, the competition had other problems, and it didn't go any further. But even now you must take a clear position, because the European Commission, in reply to my fellow SYRIZA MEP, clearly said Kostas Arvanitis that it is a matter of the national Government's administration to manage the issue of jobs in the Skaramaga shipyards and the European shipyards as a whole. We have asked for a joint meeting of the Committee on Production, Trade and Labour and Social Affairs for months now. So if you want this debate to take place, to come to the relevant committees, to have a delegation of workers and to have a substantive debate, to ensure the sustainability of the shipyards, the public interest, the interests of the defence industry, which are served by shipyards and above all the jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Mr President - it is clear that today you should give us clear answers on all these issues, clear answers to West Athens, which we unfortunately have not heard. We have heard a repetition of the same issues. We expect you to have concrete proposals and the logic that has been heard before, namely measures in the area of Attica which has such great, increased health, environmental, economic and social problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Republic, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Reading the timely question, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which is welcome topics you raise, at least for those who know and for me, it gives me the impression that this is a text of ideas. And it's a text of ideas because, if someone takes it into their hands and reads what you say inside, a question is reasonably created to him. Well, didn't you rule? Four and a half years you've been government. All of what you describe in five pages of development projects, special proposals for western Athens, because you did not even do anything of them, to say today, 'yes, we did these'. Have you observed, ladies and gentlemen, what happened here today? The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has paralysed those who have the responsibility and competence to put themselves to the question under the Rules of Procedure, and nobody has said what they have done for four and a half years. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, what have you been doing in West Athens for four and a half years? It's like the time was frozen in January 2015 and reopened in July 2019. Four-and-a-half years, the only thing you've ever done, which was placed here by the Minister of Development, was the christenings at the Western Athens TEI, which you called the University of Western Athens. That's all, a change of label and nothing else. But we're actually going to do things because I want to be specific and on the posts of SYRIZA's valuable colleagues. Mr Zachariadis said in a large way that he is a responsible opposition, that we are irresponsible, otherwise in our Government, that SYRIZA is completely different today as a opposition from what we have done. It is a unfortunate example, Mr Zachariadis. Just yesterday, in an important government reform proposal, which will help the country's development future, which Mr.4412/2016 actually comes from our Government yesterday with structural changes, which concerns real problems of inefficiency and bureaucracy and opacity that appeared in your own law, we changed it and you did not vote for it. You'll tell me why we should vote for him. Because I would just like to remind you, in order to refresh the memory, that yesterday we referred here to all the speakers that we voted on your own law. This is what the responsible Opposition and the responsible political party are. The second is the following: Mr Zachariadis complained that Mr Tsipras presented the whole of the SYRIZA health programme and was lost. It was lost on your own responsibility because you have made sure that you are supporters of the views and positions of those who go outside the Constitution Square for Koufantina and in the news that you put the particular self-government and burned what you wanted to show. It's your responsibility, Mr. Zachariadis, and gentlemen of SYRIZA. It is your responsibility that the proposals you have made for health have been lost from time to time. I join Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou in a little bit, which really came to be aligned with Mr Tsipras's position yesterday by putting the title 'fail in everything'. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou today, as a parliamentary representative, told the government 'has failed at all'. Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, didn't we do anything good? Is everything black and gray? I come to reply to these specific questions, first and foremost to congratulate the Ministry of Development, the Minister Adonis Georgiadis, and Mr Kontozamanis. I think Mr. Contozamanis will be here. I'm starting with Mr. Georgiadis. He announced here today this excellent measure, showing the reflexes and sensitivity of the government and his own, where in Aspropyrgos, Elefsina and Mandra, precisely in these three major municipalities, which have been hit in a variety of ways and because of the economic crisis but also because of the pandemic, the Ministry of Development comes to give 3000 euros to every retailer and 1000 euros to every worker belonging to these businesses. Congratulations, Mr. Georgiadis. It was a good opportunity in the middle of SYRIZA's timely question to highlight this initiative by the Government and the Ministry of Development, because that is how we really show how we operate on the issues of society, the economy and how we are close to the citizens. From what you said, this measure will be extended to the Municipality of Kalamni and the regional unity of Kozani and the Municipality of Amyntaios and the regional unity of Thespiians because they were affected respectively during the pandemic period. Now, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, I refer to you rhetorics, you understand, always kindly and in a mild way. Does the word "success" fit us? Are you really saying that now? We have faced a pandemic and a crisis that has no precedent in the world and Greece as well as other countries. You see what the foreign press says, what committees say, the institutions for Greece? Just yesterday, the World Health Organisation and Mr Squad, the Commissioner, congratulated Greece on the speed of vaccination. Yesterday we spent one million vaccines in our country. Isn't that a success? Is that a failure? Just a month ago, the institution called the European Commission came and congratulates Greece on dealing with the crisis regarding the maintenance of jobs. Is that a failure or a success? Success! And, of course, regarding the RRF-related issues, the Recovery Fund, which is truly impressively coming out of Europe's institutional representatives and say that Greece in the RRF basket has the most serious and rational proposals throughout Europe. Is that a failure or a success? Because you, too, as a opposition, must do your job, well you have asked and asked questions, your responsibility and your way is how you will be placed. I advise you to be more careful because people know, listen, learn, we are not in the period when you said you were bringing them and hugging them because they were living in a strange period of the economic crisis. Now things are different. It'll count seriousness and responsibility. You referred to the issues relating to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to make certain records of what the government has given during the pandemic period for workers and businesses, and in practice that proves that our Government has worked efficiently and with reflexes and sensitivity. Economic interventions amount to EUR 27 billion from the end of February to the present day. It's 27 billion euros. That's all we've given, gentlemen of SYRIZA. For example, a repayable advance. With the first five cycles of repayable advance, 6.8 billion euros have been disbursed in five hundred four thousand five hundred ninety one business and free trade. Special purpose allowances have been disbursed EUR 500 million to more than five hundred thousand free professionals and small businesses employing up to twenty people. Special purpose allowances to workers whose contract of employment was temporarily suspended. EUR 3 billion has been disbursed to a million of eight hundred thousand beneficiaries, taking into account predictions for seasonal workers in special categories of workers and scientists, while an additional EUR 1.5 billion is the cost of full coverage of their insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u64	Completely, Mr. Colleague, you've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u65	I shall take the same time, Mr President, with Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos: three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u66	I understand, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u67	Coverage by the State budget of employers' insurance contributions of 270 million. Tax and insurance contributions suspensions. The total amount of debts that had been suspended until now is estimated at EUR 1.5 billion and an additional EUR 250 million together with VAT and tax insurance contributions that they paid in time. Expansion of unemployment benefits 1 billion euro. Liquidity tools for Guarantee Programme 1 and 2 and TEPIX 7.3 billion euros in thirty-one thousand thirty-five companies. Non-payment of municipal fees of 200 million. Specific sectoral measures to support the primary sector of 300 million. Reduction of an income tax amount of EUR 1.6 billion. Reduction of EUR 200 million. Coverage of interest on loans to companies affected by pandemics EUR 240 million. Reduction of rented EUR 84 million. Subsidies under the ‘Geftyra’ programme EUR 72 million. I'm trying to be short. And in the health sector of EUR 1 billion, for the needs of the central administration of the health sector. That's what our government gave us. Is this a failure or a lack of sensitivity and a problem? I shall close, Mr President, to satisfy your request. So let me tell you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, that this government has never claimed the perfect. We have never claimed in arrogant manner the social and economic issues that exist. We are here, near the citizens, near the society, with the financial possibilities that our country has and the strengths it has. We are next to every citizen and will continue to be until the end of the crisis. And after the crisis, since for the first time the light on the tunnel is now appearing, we will be here with development tools, such as yesterday's reform, such as the insurance we voted for, Mr.4670/2020, which changes the status quo to insurance, such as the reduction of contributions that you did not vote on for two million workers. Two million workers since 1 January have seen wage increases. You are here you of SYRIZA, for not voting for the wage increases of workers. And surely thousands are in western Athens, who are attending the debate today and say, 'Well, what do they say? Are they certified for the workers and they have not voted for the increase in our wages?'
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u68	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u69	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u70	You've been talking for so many minutes, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President, for giving and giving time. The Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Ministers, the Parliamentary Group are here from the beginning to the end, close to the citizen for the sake of the country and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, now speaks. I would ask that we keep track of the times, because after this timely question, further questions follow. We must respect the time, so that we do not need to limit your colleagues' time to the following questions. After Ms. Giannakopoulou, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Katsotis will speak, then the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Maria Athanasiou will be closed and will be closed with Mr.MERA25 Parliamentary Representative Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis. Then, of course, we'll get into the second grades. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you can start. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I should like to say that we are all on the side of the inhabitants of Thessaly, who are affected by multiple seismic vibrations. The government must stand beside them directly and in practice, Minister. I would like to congratulate the teachers, who have taken care of their temper and of their attitude to help and not to jeopardise school students and the children of Thessaly. I now come to the debate on the topical question tabled by SYRIZA colleagues on the issues of Western Athens, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to say that the West Athens Department is my constituency and I have a full picture of these pathogens, which I have repeatedly raised through parliamentary scrutiny with the relevant ministers. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to tell you that the matter is not correctly introduced in the way you have written it and presented it today, your Members. The text of your question, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, leaves the impression that on this side of Athens under the river there are conditions of the 1970s. And yet, West Athens has changed since the 1980s. It changed nature and this was due to - and you know it very well, Mr Kurubli - to the policy of PASOK governments since 1981, which in the centre of his policies were the non-preferential, were the people of these regions as well as, of course, to the efforts and actions of the local government, in which they were leading emblematic forms such as Lampros Michos in Agia Varvara, Mavrothalassitis, Spiliopoulos, Mystakopoulou, Dimitris Kalogeropoulos in Aigleo, Yachni, Skabas, Kyriakos Deikos in Haidari, Thodoros Dimitrisopoulos and Andreas Pachatouris in Peristeri, Paximadas and Stephanos Vlachos in Petrupoli, Kouvinos and Nikos Kamarios in Iberis, Imarius. So, for the sake of the works of breath in West Athens, the citizens saw their quality of life upgraded, their everyday lives improved. The text you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, forgets, omissions, that reality. First of all, in your text you do not make an elementary account of what you have done. Why, don't you forget, you were government. You say nothing about the abandonment of Tritsi Park, which was glorified by your own rule. You say nothing about your war attitude to the creation of any new cell in the Grammar or in the Keratea, so that all the waste in the Race continues to be collected. But of course the biggest intervention you made was to merge the Piraeus TEIs with the Athens TEIs and of course to rename them overnight at a University of Western Attica. So I urge you to tell me a project you have done for western Athens during your administration. We said to speak truths, ladies and gentlemen. I walk to West Athens. I've asked dozens of questions about all the problems. There are very serious problems, yes, which need to be addressed. A new development step is needed and a comprehensive plan needs to be drawn up in this direction. However, we must discuss the basis of an existing situation. And the West Athens, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer the backyard of the Lecade. Let us see some key areas in which it should be weighed: In the health sector, which emerged in the midst of the pandemic as one of the most basic pillars of society, don't forget, one of us here forget that the greatest breath work created for western Athens, for the West Attica as a whole, was the creation of the "Attica" Hospital. And that was a PASOK project! I have, of course, tabled a number of questions, Mr Minister, and timely questions, because, yes, there are problems and, indeed, serious problems, such as mission and sub-financing. You must see them. Because, it is true, you have not done what you should have done for the number one hospital in Greece, not just in western Athens. In terms of education, in western Athens, yes, there is a very strong youth population and they deserve the best conditions of education. But I will only give you one characteristic of your government's indifference, Mr. Georgiades. There were the earthquakes of July 19, 2019, and there were very serious damages to schools throughout western Athens, especially Aigaleo. Do you know how many questions I am asking alone - I am not talking about colleagues from the other parties - I have tabled a statement on what you will finally do on this issue? Eight questions. Not one, not two. Eight, just me. Do you know what you've done? Nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Well, get serious. Be serious and do plays, acts. As to the axis of quality of life, of course, the first and main problem is the Gender HYTA. It's a time bomb for the environment, for society. It is the only landfill area for more than four million inhabitants of Attica. The PASOK governments, Minister, had designed to relieve the area from HYTA by creating two more cells. Because of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, however, the unique pole for the management of garbage remained the only one left. There has been no action in this direction. We haven't even received a reply from you either. I've submitted timely and simple questions. We have therefore not received an answer from the government or from the district minister, Mr Patulis, who is, of course, in your party. What are you gonna do? Just big words? It is also a major issue, which I brought here to the House since October 2020, Minister, the issue of subjugating the cables of western Athens. You have remembered this now, Minister, after the 'Medea' that the problems have emerged. But we've been putting this on you for a long time. And you want me to remind you of something, Mr. Georgiadis? Mr. Neradzis, when he was Minister, Minister of State, in 2005, was committed to subjugating cables in West Athens. Since then, of course, it has been a silent fish. With regard to the transport axis, the second largest task of breathing the PASOK governments, which finally changed the nature of western Athens, was Metro. Work of Government Simitis with Minister Vasso Papandreou. For the expansion of the Metro, of course, we recognize that it is positive that it will reach Illion. But we are also waiting for the plan and timetable for the following municipalities that are not covered, namely Haidari, Petroupoli and Saint Anargyros - Cameroon. Unfortunately, however - and I will shortly be closing down, Mr President - ladies and gentlemen, once again, and today, we are seeing a debate on the conflict between the government and the Civic Opposition. Here, basically, you compete for who is best in beautiful words. For us as a PASOK, as a Change Movement, this cannot be an overall proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u74	Ms. Giannakopoulou, you've been to nine minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u75	The previous parliamentary representative spoke ten minutes and forty-six seconds. Please, therefore, for an equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u76	I'm not cutting you off. I'm just pointing it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u77	Sure. I'm closing, Mr. President. Ministers, Mr Georgiadis, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, for the further upgrading of Western Athens you must put aside the micro-policy toys and lead us all to the cooperation needed to make the most of the potential of the region. There is, therefore, a way to make progress in the projects and, of course, with the assistance of the Western Athens Development Association, which has done a very important project. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need a great alliance of all the political, self-government and social forces on the basis of a new creation plan aimed at a new leap in the region towards the future, as PASOK has done since 1981, in cooperation with self-government, which has taken the lead and upgraded - if you like - quality of life. We must therefore take very seriously all these issues into account which, yes, have rightly been mentioned. You will allow me, before I close only to give you a simple example - I cannot say it because I want to speak specifically, Mr Georgiadis - for which your Government shows an incredible analgesia and has to do with power cuts in proven poor, economically weak households in St Varvara. The current has been cut - with the assistance of MATS - since 10-12-2020, Mr Georgiadis. I have asked two topical questions in this House and both the previous Minister and the current one have committed themselves to resolving them immediately. Two and a half months later, nothing has happened! The Zedea came in, and we all saw here in Attica what it means to live for a few hours or for a week without electricity. Do we all understand what these people, who are provenly weak, have been living for two and a half months without power?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u78	Please, finish, you've been in 12 minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u79	I'm closing, Mr. President. The citizens, therefore, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of West Athens are not second-class citizens, as SYRIZA has presented to us today, nor should they be regarded as second-class citizens with the indifference shown by the Government of New Democracy. That was supposed to be why the Prime Minister chose to be elected in this region, to do work, and not just to show your interest in the people's eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u80	Yes, fine, please, you've been in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u81	So do it, act! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Christos Katsotis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. As a JRC we want to express solidarity and solidarity with the people of Thessaly and demand immediate rehabilitation of disasters, financial support for those who have suffered damage and, of course, immediate measures of earthquake shielding. Already the MP of Larissa, Mr Lambroulis, who is in the region, has tabled concrete proposals. Minister, the government cannot hide behind the fact that the SYRIZA who tabled the topical question has serious political responsibility for the issues it records. In western Athens, hundreds of thousands of workers and people are living and working in populaces with a permanent stench in their homes, with 30% cancers compared to the average, with the nightmare of unemployment, the spread of poverty, the destruction of small professionals and self-employed, with medieval working conditions. Is it really some kind of government innocent of this situation that the people of western Athens live? The spreading of pandemic into workplaces, public transport, private health and welfare structures, where no substantial measures are taken and transported to people's homes led the region to red. This is the cause of increased cases, especially in the western sector. It is the government's choice not to carry out checks at large workplaces. That is why there is also degradation and the underselling of audit services. The government goes on to recurring Lockdown because it refuses to take measures to protect the health and life of the people, to demand the private health sector, to hire the necessary medical and nursing staff, to provide infrastructure and necessary equipment in hospitals. Stop playing with people's health! In West Athens, the Hospital of Atticon, which is the only one serving the people of western Athens, has reached its limits with staff shortages, with ranjas. As for the former "Syriza" Hospital that was closed by the New Democracy-PASOK conflict in 2013 and the SYRIZA government kept it closed, it is imperative that it be fully and fully operational. The situation, Minister, in health centres is exacerbating this situation of the people of western Athens. The Egaleo Health Centre does not carry out any haemorrhage for thirty-two serious diagnostic tests. There is a pathologist and no general doctor. In the branch of Petroupoli, while there are equipment for testing, it cannot be used because there are no corresponding doctor specialties. In the branch of Illio there are problems of substation in laboratories and in radiology. At Peristeri Health Center, one of the largest municipalities in the country, there is no central heating system. The situation has become even worse than the conversion of health centres into vaccination centres. On these serious issues, the JRC has made a number of contributions over time, and since the beginning of the pandemic it requires immediate measures to support health workers and infrastructures, strengthen primary health care and genuinely the private health sector. In the field of education, there are shortcomings in educational staff, cleanliness staff. There is no effective pre-institutional control. The optic does not ensure the right diagnosis, if you like, for the stagnation of the old buildings and their condition has deteriorated by the recent earthquake. The situation in special schools, such as the ones in Aegaleo, is also tragic, as has been demonstrated by the representatives of the special education parents in Aegaleo at a meeting with the Secretary General of the KKE, Dimitris Koutsoubas. Of course, a question has been tabled on this, but it has not been answered. Unemployment in the region is falling apart. The percentages are above the country's average. Measures to support the unemployed and their families do not exist. The JRC's proposals for effective support for unemployed people with unemployment benefits until they find a job, but even the amendment we tabled to strengthen the unemployed during this period with an exceptional allowance of EUR 600 without conditions and conditions has been rejected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Really, in the question, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is there any reference to this matter? What did Mr. Drasakis ask for today? He said about the well-known programs that recycle unemployment! A few days ago, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the JRC discussed with teleconferencing all trade associations and associations in the wider private sector. SYRIZA's question is far from the reality and needs of small professionals. Government policy and within the pandemic has led the self-employed, the small professionals in the region, to despair. The JRC Parliamentary Group has tabled a proposal for a law on their relief. I am not going to read out its parts, because I want to highlight some other issues and of course time is not taking me. With regard to civil protection, the silence of SYRIZA is an option enabling the Government of New Democracy to continue its criminal policy of 'cost-benefit'. Result? The Matty, Mandra, the timelessly hit western Athens and others, regions with dead, huge losses of popular property, homes, crops, hundreds of thousands of acres sometimes from fires, sometimes from floods, sometimes from earthquakes, and at times from industrial accidents. The great catastrophe follows the previous one. It is the result of the urban development policy to which the only criterion is the continuous increase in profit. This criterion excludes anti-military works necessary in West Athens because they are not attractive to large construction groups. A characteristic case is the "fresh" of the construction of the pipeline in Kavala. The result is every time the populace rains strongly in western Athens to tremble for its life and life. The same criterion excludes anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism works. As far as environmental protection is concerned, the hunting of profits is incompatible with a balanced relationship between man and the environment. A characteristic example is the "Antonis Tritsis" park of a thousand two hundred acres, which could be an ornament in the area, oasis for the people's families, if there was sufficient and stable funding from the state budget, or if permanent staff were recruited with full rights for the needs of its operation, maintenance and security. All this has emerged through the organization of the KNE Festival, which has been constantly organized at the "Antonis Tritsis" Park since 2010. In time, governments do not ensure these issues, but they allow NGOs to perpetuate. Part of Poikilo Mount has been claimed for years by the trespassers and the Lamia Monastery. The State is required to ensure the public and forestry character of the area. Scaramaga's Problem 4 must be attributed to the needs of the people of the region and, until then, to human living conditions for refugees and immigrants and to all necessary documents. For decades now, the lives of the people of western Athens and Triasios have deteriorated. The management of the Attica Region and the majority of the EDNA implement the planning of the Government that perpetuates the carcinogens of the gender dump, completing the work of the SYRIZA administration, and in conditions of second and most serious pandemic. With the unacceptable environmental impact study that they voted on during the night on the regional council, they are moving towards a new decorative landfill that will cover an area of four hundred acres. These developments are the result of the competition launched by SYRIZA administration to EDNA within the heart of summer 2019. It is the result of the rallying of Patolis, Dourou, Jamerios at the meeting of the regional council on October 19, 2019, where not only agreed on the expansion of the Ghost HYTA, but also through a process - parody decided to operate the CYTA Graphic. In addition to this, the recent anti-environmental law is'spring' and legalised waste transhipment stations in Attica and among them in Peristeri, Saint Anargyros and Cameroon. The JRC is struggling to close the waste dump and manage waste to the benefit of the people, in order to protect its health and the environment. The people, the workers of western Athens, face the daily suffering in the movement by means of transport that have been converted into health bombs, crime, which employs the working people of the region, which is not treated as it has been proved in practice by increasing police rule, but by an integrated anti-crime policy that does not exist over time. For these problems, a pioneering action by communists and other fighters in the region has been developed with announcements, conferences, mobilisations, action through the unions and bodies in which they participate, questions in Parliament, conferences and other initiatives. Among the initiatives that have taken the previous period are the days of the Party Organisation of Attica for Waste Management and the civil protection that took place in Illion, with the Secretary-General of the JRC, a meeting with thirty-five Western Athens bodies in Antonis Tritsis Park, an intervention of the Secretary-General for the need to strengthen health structures in Western Athens, questions in the House of the Secretary-General of the KEI on health problems. So the government cannot hide. It must take its own responsibilities and proceed directly to solutions in West Athens, which can improve the lives of the people themselves, which suffer from all governments and policies they have exercised in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Maria Athanasios, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Following developments in recent days, the current topical question highlights the shortcomings and failures in the management of the health crisis, which contributes to the further deterioration of Western Athens. With our questions, as a Greek Solution, we had raised the burning issues long ago. Its residents are increasingly immersed in poverty, unemployment, incomplete care, unequal education, areas that have been extra burdened by the spread and ineffective management of the pandemic so far, and there are cases of multiple families without any worker and poor insurers in several of its municipalities. Studies, in fact, have shown that, among other things, poverty and social inequalities contribute to the worsening of pandemic. In Switzerland they have a 3% recession, without incarceration. California and Florida - one is open, the other is not - they have about the same cases and the same deaths. West Athens suffers from structures, support for vulnerable social groups. Your contribution as a social state to ensuring decent living for disabled and elderly people remains a deficit. You have recently decided to reduce the rate of state participation in the medical care of AMEs as soon as they become adult. So, you think they were suddenly cured by adulthood? I wish it were! As an awareness of social issues, as you wish to present, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you should have strengthened the 'Help at home' programme, especially for these less privileged areas. You should enthusiastically encourage the municipalities, by making extra funds available for this purpose. The costs of these municipalities are minimal to support such services and benefits in full. Also, what care do you have for families with LEADER children? Are there any incentives from private individuals and State funding to local government through the establishment of CSR recreational facilities, to securely and therapeuticly benefit their parents, but also to bring them in touch with nature and social activities, especially now that the declining bans are even more burdened with the situation? The performance of Problete 4 to the shipowner and not to the Municipality of Haidari shows that you do not have such intentions. As far as transport is concerned, it is another multipathic field. I will say it more simply: the Metro is not reached the "Attica" Hospital to make it easier for residents. I will also refer to the more general planning, which excludes remote areas from the city centre. Moreover, as far as buses are concerned, there are a few vehicles, a few routes, so that passengers are on each other in the middle of a pandemic. How, then, do you make these people's lives easier in western Athens? The majority of residents do not live in single houses with gardens and swimming pools, but in apartments. There is neither green nor sea. What have you done to improve these areas for decades? What are you doing there as a government now in order to facilitate their difficult everyday life? You will say that there are no cash reserves, 'we want to, but we cannot'. And yet, just when there is no economic comfort required, priorities are hierarchy. Your priorities, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are obvious and relate to the financial support of the media. I have here, in the table in Europe, the position taken by our country on health expenditure. We're late. Do we have to be proud of this? I shall submit the relevant document in the Minutes. In the midst of a pandemic, you continue to leave the hospitals in the area subordinated, with incomplete funding. Attica, which primarily serves many Western Athens, also suffers suffocation in on-calls. The Psychiatric Hospital does not have a single ambulance. The "Amomonos" Hospital with appropriate infrastructure to deal with such infectious incidents is functioning. Subsequently in the area and on the basis of the increased tests, a large number of positive cases are presented. Anybody then check them if they get quarantine? Where are day-to-day tracking? What about Scaramaga's hot spot, are tests and tests carried out? These people daily use media lines from Elefsina or Forest to Athens or Piraeus. Are they tested by test if they are bodies, if they are ill and so dispersed? Allow me to insist on the issue of health and to make a small contribution. The eruption of the number of cases in Attica led to the conversion of the Lekanoped hospitals to COVID hospitals, the conversion of doctors and nursing staff to COVID nurses, the transfer of already hospitalized NON COVID hospitals on raids. Really how were NIMITS and Henry Dunan selected and became purely NON COVID hospitals? For a year as a Greek Solution, we have pointed out that, with the fragmentary measures you take, people will no longer be allowed to suffer from diseases other than the coronary and we are unfortunately coming out true. A year after the coronary appears and you continue to talk about further enhancement of your ERC. Why'more'? Why didn't you act superstitious? Why didn't you make decisions when you had to? People are sadly getting sick and leaving only two hospitals as purely NON COVIDs to manage the multitude of incidents on newspapers, supposedly not to collapse the public health system. What did you do so we didn't get here? Your interest, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is mainly communication and focuses primarily on reducing political costs. You are interested in the number of deaths from COVID, because they are recorded and will have a direct impact on polling, as you may also be judged of the mismanagement of the public health crisis. However, deaths from other causes, such as infarctions, cancers, do not relate to your concern, since they are not recorded, so you are safe and no one criticizes you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I too, Mr President, would like the time of my other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u86	Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u87	These practices, however, move away from an enhanced ESS and therefore a social state. The subtle lockdowns have huge economic costs for our country. The closure of the port trade, however, in West Athens, in addition to unemployment and the eruption of social inequalities, also creates gaps in state revenue. And it's not that people won't work, but they'll do it in secret to cope with economic hardship. Because you're doing and making the poor the poorest. You ask them to be consistent with their obligations, such as, for example, the traffic charges you are closing cars and they are parked, HISPIA, taxes, etc. And with those incarcerations you don't even allow them to work. Many professional activities have been transferred to homes. Of course you do. And yet nothing changes. Have you planned a support programme for the small and medium-sized enterprises and the world's small and medium-sized enterprises in western Athens, the region with the highest unemployment rate? As far as education is concerned, the West Attica is known to be plagued by an economic weakness. The poverty index is too high in some municipalities. What measures have you taken for school buildings affected by the 2019 earthquake? How do you facilitate special education in the middle of a pandemic? Have you hired the training staff required? Do you have any data from all the family if they have the possibility of televising? We are talking about western Athens, about honest citizens who are afflicted. What care did you take for single parent families, for example, for multiples? Do you think that a mobile screen is an adequate means of effective educational process? However, after so many months of teleworking and social distances, it is certain that children have been founded and will develop clusters in their social associations. The opening of primary schools was dealt with with with urgency, which is why they quickly closed down. Teachers were asked to return to school with their unique weapon, mask and antiseptic, and you should have predicted a reduction of students by class, which we suggested. The landscape in primary education has changed for at least seven years. He is no longer the only teacher in primary school, but they have joined the daily program and courses that teach teachers from secondary education, who move to up to five school units during the week. What are the chances of them being exposed to the virus and dispersed? How have you ensured that the health of teachers and students is safeguarded, especially since you have decided to open up municipal schools and in the western Attica, which was a red area? With regard to the environment, West Athens also lacks state care with a greater and more important environmental issue in the Ghost, with serious harmful consequences for the health of the local residents and the secretion of pollutants. This sanitary bomb is further burdening the health of the pandemic residents. What prevention and treatment measures have you taken so far? What urgent action have you taken to prevent the populations of Western Attica from gaining further health because of the pandemic? In addition, you grant the pier 4 to the owner of Scaramaga yards instead of the Municipality of Haidario, which, although it will offer nothing to the country's development business and the prospects of the shipyard, seriously harms the development prospects and upgrading plans of the city of Haidari and western Athens. Don't say you're ending the vision to have these residents access to the sea, with parks and playgrounds. Ladies and gentlemen, time goes in reverse. West Athens undergoes further deterioration and, as we have repeatedly stressed, all of this could have been reduced by proper planning, effective management and enhanced RSH. How? With ongoing tests, checks, traces to the hot spots, as well as with a limitation on their circulation especially in the middle of a pandemic, such as in all of us, with strict supervision of the positive cases in the specific areas, by increasing checks in the media to keep the measures and by increasing the routes in the specific areas, in order to avoid crowding and congratulating you - in addition, with our question from July 28, 2020, we stressed the suffering of thousands of people in Chiidarios, due to a reduction in Metro routes - by the hospital's staff with doctors, intensifier and nurses. In conclusion, Mr Ministers, it is not all communication. Disguise the needs of the affected citizens of western Athens, contribute to the improvement and quality of their daily lives, to support their health so that not only the virus can be intercepted, but also any outcomes that suggest their unequal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arsenis spokesman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs, I will obviously begin with the "Saint Barbara" and the "Lomamonon", which Mr. Georgiadis not only closed in 2014, but he told us he was proud to close it. He's proud to fire three thousand doctors and close the hospitals, and the troika won't take his glory. But, SYRIZA MPs and MPs, you five years as government what have you done for the 'Smouli'? Did you open it? Oh, no. Did you make it an autonomous hospital, have it its own budget? Oh, no. Did you stop the health of workers, doctors and nurses from the extreme subordinated also "Nice General" in Nice? Oh, no. Were there any demands for 'Liberal' by citizens and workers? Yeah. You were visited on several occasions by the employees in "Attica" and you said that a hospital that closes does not open. As for the 'Attica', the situation is tragic. Ranja, saturation. He's become the largest hospital in the Balkans, now a COVID hospital. They are contaminated by the virus and closed entire sections of the hospital. There's a special on-call every four days. Unthinkable situations. It is unthinkable, because three days quarantine cost us about 400 million euros. With that money, we could have two and a half thousand IFs. That's the cost for three days quarantine. We could have hired the necessary doctors for another three days. The minimum recruitments you have made - and Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos was right - are mainly the various calls that have been made in the past and have not been met with all the posts that have been published. 60% with 70% of the posts taken are from them, not from new funds. Will you increase health expenditure? Will you change the budget? For the "Antonis Tritsis" Park, SYRIZA had made a good start. He had given some money and made the management body. The remaining four years have been a complete inertia, company, cliques and inertia. Nor did the spatial plan ever happen - every six months it would never happen - nor the waterproofing of the lakes went on. She became one, but she stayed in the rest. The water issue has escalated and we have the situation we have. The New Democracy, by washing its hands, probably the then Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, gave the Antonis Tritsis Park to Mr. Patolis. Nothing's happened. The situation has deteriorated. They don't go ahead with the works. Actually, the situation goes from bad to worse. It is precisely what needs to be done. We need to immerse the lakes, know how much water the Antonis Tritsis park needs, make maintenance and storage work and be operational. It's beautiful despite his problems. Anyone who listens to us and has not visited it, I invite him to visit it, obviously when the quarantine is over. It is an amazing place for families, a regional park of great value for the quality of life of all the people of Attica. Unfortunately, however, there is a political ball and a political game. Races. Here New Democracy and SYRIZA are in excellent cooperation. The illegal extension of the Florida dump approved on the last day of its term of office by Mrs Dourou, and even as an area of future expansion, the abandoned Musama quarry entered, a few metres from Petroupoli. Now also a burning of waste is brought by the New Democracy Government, and even in Shhsto, instead of shutting down the Race HYTA. Close the Tribal Cyber, gentlemen of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, tell us, are you with Mrs. Durus or with the citizens? Do you agree with Mrs Durou's choices, or do you agree with the movements? You need to take a clear position. Mr Drasakis mentioned the special development programme for West Attica. One wonders why now? You were four and a half years government. Why didn't you suggest it, then? You are asking, in other words, for what you did not do as a government. We are positive, to see it, to look at an organised development plan, but to do so with a seriousness. Allocation of the Heidari and Block 15 camps. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, will you do what the Municipality of Heidari demands? Will you give sixty acres to make this space of memory and green space for the people of Haidari? Why didn't the SYRIZA government do anything about it? Trouble 4, Scaramagas. Again, SYRIZA was committed to being given in 2018 to the municipality. Then we saw this go to the G.I.I.E.L.D. and the superstition. The New Democracy has even brought in an amendment which clarifies all of this, which has also supported the Change Movement. Transport. I wonder: What was SYRIZA doing about the Metro extensions in western Athens, Petroupoli, Illion, Haidari, Saint Anargyros? What about these areas? We ask the government: will you put the Line 7 which is united by the Centre of Athens with the University of West Attica, with Haidari - which has no other contact with Metro - with the "Attica", the largest hospital in the Balkans, with the Psychiatric Hospital of Daphne, with one of the few UNESCO monuments that Greece, the Daphne Monastery, with the Botanic Garden Dimitrous, also a very important super-local quality of life resource? Will you proceed with these necessary actions? The Minister replied that they were transferred to the very near future, without being able to commit themselves to dates in elementary terms. Also, what I have repeatedly asked for and is also a request for local societies and you do not answer: will there finally become the lines of express that connect the centres of the municipalities of western Athens, which do not currently have access to the metro, to the nearest Metro station? It is necessary and you should use it intelligently as a relief measure for other regions of Greece. But you're not moving on. You said you didn't have buses, now you say you took buses again, you don't go any further. Finally, it was not about buses, it was about indifference. Express lines not that stop at dozens of stops, but that operate in sight of Metro, they will take the Metro passenger where the station stops and they will take him to the center of the municipality, whether we talk about St. Anargyros, whether we talk about Petropolis, whether we talk about Illion or we talk about Heidari. School buildings. A disgraceful situation, which has deteriorated a great deal since the earthquake of 17 July 1919. We do not know at this time if in the buildings in West Athens in the columns static there is now iron or it has melted. There have been no stagnation checks, no preservative checks. We're asking to create a KTEO building. All school buildings in West Athens and elsewhere should be screened every two to three years. These are things that are unequivocal. Saints Anargyroi, concession of camp 301. What happened to SYRIZA? What are you gonna do? OSE car station. There was a concession notice by the Prime Minister, and I also welcomed it. We are now getting information that first of all this concession is money and, anyway, there are too many conditions that are not clear. We want you to make it clear to us at the end: this concession, the only thing Mr Mitsotakis has done for his constituency two years of Prime Minister, the only one, was a fiasco or is it a substance? You need to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u90	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u91	I shall, of course, conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. For the claims of the Lamia Monastery, they had actually been made by SYRIZA in 16 meetings. There was an attempt to coordinate, but it stayed there. The meetings didn't lead anywhere since '16 and then nothing happened. It is still a huge problem, which the government because of its costs, because the church is involved, does not want to touch it, even though it is at risk of citizens' property and public spaces. Picnico. Our Regional Natural Park said the Athens Regulatory Plan must become Poikilo. What did SYRIZA do? Will you do something, gentlemen of the New Democracy? West Athens wants honesty and care, not another abandonment, not another hypocrisy. I close, summarizing: Line 7 must go ahead, bus lines connecting the centre of the municipalities to the stations, a great unification of the archaeological sites in the narrow Heidari, a great archaeological walk that I have asked him repeatedly with timely questions and writtens, close the gender, complete recycling now and bury the waste locally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Arseni, you've exceeded every precedent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I really want a minute. To become the Polikilos Regional Park, the Schools for School Safety, in the Antonis Tritsis Park to become the spatial plan, to house the lakes, to dismantle its management, to become an independent hospital, ITH and recruitment in Attica, with substantial support for local businesses not repayable, with lending. In fact, remove insurance and tax debts in the affected enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. We're now entering the second grades. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs. Kafantaris, you've exhausted the large part of your dentistry. In any case, however, I will give you the floor for five minutes, as you are the first speaker to sign the question. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. The phrase in which I started my prototype, that "water has been shaken" by the SYRIZA's timely question - a Progressive Alliance for the Degradation of Western Athens, and because of the pandemic, this really seemed today - let me - and the reactions of the ministers. In particular, what the Minister for Development and Investment said, Mr Georgiadis, about the specific RIS programme of enterprise grants now signed shows precisely that some issues had to be raised and that the government at some point had to be specifically interested in western Athens. I heard the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, I heard the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. Of course, it is difficult for a single citizen of western Athens who does not know about faces and things that could see major differences. You all have a question. Because others from the opposition also referred to SYRIZA's governance and what SYRIZA has done for four and a half years - Progressive Alliance. I will respond very clearly. As far as transport is concerned, Metro in Agia Varvara by the government of SYRIZA was prepared and unfortunately the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, opened it with at least one year's delay. It was under way. Many colleagues have also referred to the "Antonis Tritsi" park issues, and they have been mentioned in the open spaces. I will say, therefore, that under the rule of SYRIZA, since 2016, he became the management body of the park, was guaranteed for the park funding 58,000, hired some, a little, staff and the image of the park since the abandonment changed. Today that the park is in Mr. Patoulis, anyone taking a walk in there can really see what the situation exists. We acted in this direction. Countless works in western Athens that were years old have become much. And here the previous administration of the region, the Life Force, contributed to the completion and the development of flooding projects, because it is a problem for western Athens. About Bloc 15, what was the picture, Mr Arsenis, of Block - I don't know if you knew it - the 13th and the 14th, and what is the picture today that repaired the building? Of course, it always remains the request to be freely accessible to everyone. It's a museum, essentially, an area of historical memory. Regarding schools, the SYRIZA government launched ready recruitments to special treatment, which Mrs. Keramos has delayed about a year to do. Of course, for the hospitals, which have received a great deal, I will tell Mr Contozamanis that you have handed over deficits and we have delivered cash to you, to the current government, a surplus of 300 million. For West Athens, where are the TOMYs, Mr. Kontozamanis, dehydrated by any staff, carried here and there, whether in vaccination centres or not? On waste management, PPP projects have been approved, which are now coming back with Mr Patulis and the Government of New Democracy. There was national and regional planning in Attica, on the basis of what the European Union provides for, and not a return, as is now the case, which will be even more burdening to western Athens. Our logic is 'decentralised waste management', based on the European Union directives. I'm coming from now on. No first home was omitted, some popular residence, Mr. Georgiadis, Minister for Development and Investment, on the rule of SYRIZA. We ensured that. You are now coming with the bankruptcy law that will immediately begin, the citizens are indebted to lose their first residence. This is also very concerned about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I'm coming from now on. Take a walk to the market of western Athens, which has a feature of small and medium-sized enterprises. The announcements we heard from the Minister of Development cannot be convinced. These small businesses, the retail trade, which most of them have been in debt to the neck for ten years now, from the memoranda that New Democracy and PASOK have put us in, may not meet certain criteria in banking, as you want to say, for the benefit of the banking capital of course. For these people, you must be interested today. In health, Mr Contozamanis, the numbers and recruitment are not enough. You didn't convince us, but you're talking all numbers. After you do - and rightly - a new large vaccination centre in Peristeri, at the same time why do you not manage "Agia Varvara" hospital with ten places, such as ten vaccination centres, to get the world of this particular area to be vaccinated? With regard to the hospital, we must not forget - and I address, let me also address the representative of the Change Movement, which said too much about St. Varvara and her hospital - that deforestation of the hospital began in 2006 when medical personnel left to serve the new hospital "Attican". Since 2012, on Avramopoulos, the local mayors of the area were invited by the then Minister where they were announced to make the "Agia Varvara" a health center. But it came in 2013, with the continued weakening of the hospital, Mr. Georgiadis closing it down. What did we do? In 2016 with the governance of SYRIZA, the second DPRK opened the hospital. What do I mean? The Centre of CEDEFOP of Nice was transferred. He became a dentistry center, a physical reservoir in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Kafantaris, you've reached seven minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u97	The external medical facilities were largely equipped and all urban activities were taken to enable the first pathological clinic today to function and provide this important role in dealing with COVID -19.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u98	Ms. Kafantari, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. The SYRIZA government has made sure that this suffocating memorial environment keeps the hospital standing, supports to the extent that primary health could. And here is a matter that the government must now see seriously. To become more vaccinated centres, because at the moment only fifteen thousand ninety-three of our fellow citizens in western Athens are in both doses of vaccines. I also call for a commitment - and I close - to when this subjugation will take place in the area of Agia Barbara, which is a decade-old request and was not the government of SYRIZA in the state. We want concrete commitments from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u100	I will give the floor to Mr Kurubli, who, although he has exhausted time, has for a short time been kept in his dentistry. Mr. Curublis, I'll give you the floor. But please, because you have exhausted the time, do not spend the three minutes as foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, it is extremely dangerous to feel self-sufficient and self-sufficient for every authority. The current government sleeps on the altar of well-being of polls and the way in which it responds to the demands and proposals of counter-population is extremely challenging. This is both the style of the two Ministers. Honestly, at a time when Greek society is being tested, paradoxing is a luxury. I challenge Mr Contozamanis, who personally delivered to me - I was Minister of Health to the first government and Mr Contozamanis, Secretary-General of the leaving - to tell me here in public or else I will submit a request to submit documents, how much money the hospitals owed in January 2015. The hospitals owed 750 million. Only "Evangelism" owed 100 million. How much did EEAY owe? And say how much money you put into the 2015 budget compared to 2014. We were actually told by the Director-General that they would reach the money by September. And now you come and say what SYRIZA did. So tell the Greek people how much they owed the hospitals or EEAS when they handed you over the SYRIZA government to make it clear. Mr President, yesterday there was an unscrupulous one. It has been said - it has been baptized - by the Minister of Development that a choice by algorithm, which actually enabled case studies, to be a prescription. I would therefore ask Mr Kontozamanis as an institutional representative of the Ministry of Health if this baptism is valid, that is to say, if this is characterised by the government as prescribing. For the Greek people to understand in such a triumph how the government is approaching such a huge issue that we all had to be extremely careful about. Because it is indeed a great challenge for our society, the history of the pandemic and the developments it will bring. And because I have listened to you, Mr. Kontozamani, to say in essence that everything is nice and well, to know that beauty is a logic that sometimes attempts to hide the truth by harming the very people who attempt it. I ask you a second question, Mr Contozamanis: tell me what percentage this year the psychopharmaceuticals have increased? To understand the situation in society and how you approach matters. All the measures you have taken have actually failed. Today, then, you take us to next lockdown and the situation is tragic. From day to day it's extremely dangerous. So you told us, Mr Contozamanis, three months ago - there are statements by all of you - that the ICMs are a thousand two hundred. So now you're telling us that ICUs reach 95% and that they're three hundred and fifty people insulated. What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u102	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u103	I'm closing, Mr. President. Mr. Kontozamani, in France 30% of COVID's intubated are in private clinics. Here you are protecting the clinical leaders of the private sector at such a difficult time. Not only do you not send them patients with COVID, but you are sending them a challenging demand. So you close hospital clinics and refer people to pay with their soul's blood or sell their property to go to hospitals because they are urgent cases and they want surgery and other treatments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. You've spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u105	I'm closing, Mr. President, just a minute. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that at this time I would expect more self-awareness on the part of the government of what is happening in the country and what is coming from. Because natural mistakes are to be made. I don't want to say it would be SYRIZA's government and it wouldn't make any mistakes. But don't come in that style. So you said you were going to build the center in the pigeon. Let me tell you something. But what did you do three months? You were sending people to hospitals, as if we had no closed gyms and places to do the vaccinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u106	Come on, Mr. Kurubli! You've been in five minutes. You've spoken more than anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, we call on the government in a dialogue to discuss the big issue of public health and public health. We started this dialogue. We therefore call on all of us together in such a dialogue to recognise the very important role of the National Health System, but to some extent it wants a new architecture. As we want, we need a society for a primary care system in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Curublis, we said to keep time. You have spoken more than anyone. Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor for dentistry. The Minister will not speak, Mr. Georgiadis, because he was called to the Ministry as a matter of urgency. Mr Contozamanis will therefore be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I shall speak at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u110	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. My fellow Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy wondered what measure SYRIZA puts forward - a Progressive Alliance on what a government considers to be a failure or success. So I should like to answer to the majority Members that a government's success is like the SYRIZA government that in 2018 took the country out of the memorials and adjusted the debt. Success is when he managed to reduce unemployment from 27% to 17%. Success is when two million uninsured people have access to the health system, which we understand is how important it is in a period of generalised pandemic. And it is a success when the SYRIZA government handed over to the government that emerged since the New Democracy elections full of funds with a 37 billion-dollar security pillow. It is a failure when a government, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, one year after the beginning of the pandemic has not supported the National Health System and every day we see hospitals being at the limit of the collapse, the Attica Hospitals, which are currently in the red and the regional hospitals. We referred to the Minutes before and filed the complaint from the employees at Attica Hospital. A moment ago, Mr. Kontozamani, the letter of resignation of the Director of Pathology "Agia Olga" was published in Nea Ionia, where he denounces incomprehensible scenes. In fact, he refers to his letter saying he resigns from disgraceful of what he lived at the "Agia Olga Hospital" last night where patients were stacking together with COVID with common incidents. Failure is when there are no systematic labour controls, industries and everywhere, when you do not support public transport, so that people, according to prevention measures, can go to work. It is a failure when our country today, because the Mitsotakis Government has not taken the necessary forward measures for the economy and labour, to have the worst recession in Europe, a deep, two-digit recession, which is constantly deteriorating. Failure when we are in the third worst position with Eurostat data, not SYRIZA as regards the reduction of the incomes of the Greek people and even having regard to the support measures. But, of course, far beyond the failure is when we have a government that creates anxiety and fear for the Greek people, precariousness when it sees the ministers say other things. When, just before the new supposedly, we saw a minister, Mr. Georgiadis, who has left, say the market is about to reopen and a few hours later, Mr. Kikilias will come out and say that we are entering even tougher lockdowns and re-launching the cases of more than two thousand across the country. So here we have a government that has no plan, has not learned from its mistakes, because last year there was a lightning, Mr President, it was an unprecedented situation for both our country and the whole world. Now that's no longer an excuse. There is no justification after 12 months for not having taken the necessary measures either in terms of the National Health System or in terms of the economy and work. A number of issues are also raised here. It's not just a lack of planning, old age and management problems. In addition to the choices that are strategic, that is, you do not want to make the necessary investments in the National Health System, you do not want to make the necessary claims at European level when even Mr Michalos, the President of the Chambers of Chambers sent a letter to the European institutions concerning the need to reduce private debt and to have a European decision in this regard, you are not even talking about this for our country, but you are insisting on the implementation of the Banking Law which is currently a trick for the economy and for natural persons. Much more you are so detached as a government from the real economic situation, from the problems, from the despair and precariousness that the Greek people live in that you come in the middle of a strict lockdown, in the middle of a new outburst and a third wave, which we do not know how long it will last and what consequences it will have, and you are reducing your own measures, which we have said from the outset were inadequate, and you have made 60% of businesses right now. With regard to the sixth advance, and with Mr Hatzidakis - and I will insist again on this because we did not receive a reply on this issue - which came out the day before Mr Staikouras, together with Mr Hatzidakis, you are taking away from fifty thousand businesses from the possibility of putting workers on a job suspension. Very simply while the health, economic and social crisis is deep, you have now found and chose to make fifty thousand businesses... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my tritology, Mr President. ... from this possibility with whatever impact it will have, when you know that one in two small and medium-sized enterprises, with elements that the small and medium-sized enterprises themselves give, will not be able to operate and survive the year we're going through. So you're opening the door to mass redundancies at the worst economic and social moment. That is the reality, and that is why we have not received an answer, Minister. I understand that you cannot possibly answer all the questions, but at least you must answer health issues. In collective terms, the government of Mr Mitsotakis must say that at the time when all the countries of Europe are fighting for the measures for the pandemic to be extended - and we have heard that at the moment the European Commission is positive for the suspension of the Stability Pact to be extended next year - there is no budgetary justification for reducing the already inadequate measures and, above all, for you not to take the necessary measures to support both the ESS and the income of the workers and keep the economy and society upright. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u113	I would like to respond to a number of questions and questions raised during today's debate. Allow me, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, to comment on the fact that your party is confused with regard to the management of the pandemic. When they open up activities, you are complaining about the protection of public health. When public health measures are taken, you are complaining about the impact on the economy. Well, make up your mind. And see, above all, what happens in the other countries both with the lockdown, as well as with the vaccinations and the management of the pandemic as a whole. I have here a list of European countries with numbers both for deaths and for lockdown and vaccinations. And I would like once again to refer to vaccination, because it is really a crucial issue for the successful completion of the vaccination operation for the population. It is a very large and unprecedented project for Greek data, which is progressing with absolute success. Any vaccines we have at our disposal, we're doing it. I would remind you that your party by mouth of your leader, Mr. Tsipras, said on 6 November 2020: "The government said to us that in December the vaccines will come". You sent us while the vaccines came and the vaccinations started. Fortunately, we have taken part in the European agreement, so that we have ensured vaccines. You said: "And make the population vaccines for influenza at least where these vaccines exist." I do not want to use it again - I have said it many times - Mrs Constantopoulos's words, what would happen if SYRIZA managed the pandemic. But from what I hear, I realize we wouldn't have any vaccines if you were to manage the pandemic. You referred to nineteen thousand staff hirings in the health system. A year and a half I've been at the Department of Health, I haven't seen ten thousand recruits. There are eight thousand four hundred sixty-five of the recruitments of the medical and other staff you have made and the others are recruitments through fixed-time contracts and ancillary staff. For all ancillary staff, we have extended the contracts by the end of October due to the special circumstances facing the country and the system. And this demonstrates the curiosity with which you as government designed recruitment to the National Health System. I would remind you that no staff notice has been cancelled in the New Democracy Government. And because a lot has been heard, that we have not been able to implement our plan to privatise the health sector because of the pandemic and public-private partnerships, at last you have made it clear to yourself that other things are public-private partnership and other things are the privatisation of the health system. We used the National Health System in the management of pandemic, as all modern states do - in exceptional circumstances you take emergency measures and used all the national health system - so that we have successfully met the increased needs of the pandemic so far. Mr Kurublis has been mentioned about France. I have here a photograph of the crossing of patients from France to Germany. And we have all seen what has happened in other states: a number of patients from one country to another because health systems could not take place. Greece has not done so. Even in the second wave, which was very heavy, especially in northern Greece and Thessaloniki, we endured and managed. And today we are under increased pressure, especially in Athens, yes, a battle is taking place. It makes sense. All personnel in the National Health System have exceeded themselves and there is no doubt a fatigue. Yes, we're also giving this battle this time, and we're going to win it, because we have the knowledge, we have the experience and we've been properly prepared. Because it has also been said 'the private sector' in a battle. The National Health System is the sum of the forces of the state sector and private sector. We are now in cooperation with the private sector, which we are taking, first, intensive beds - we have taken too many - and there are specific synergies with the private sector announced a few days ago in order to help the health system in the management of the pandemic so that we can all get through this difficult time. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] It was also said that the government would do two million vaccinations a month and celebrate because we exceeded a million. I repeat: whatever vaccine comes into the country. The two million we have said is the monthly possibility for the country to carry out vaccinations. We'll get the two million vaccinations. More vaccination centers will be opened. The design is for a thousand eighteen vaccination centres throughout the country. If necessary, we will be over the two million vaccinations in the population a month - there is this production capacity in the system - so that we can inoculate the whole population, if possible, or at least by the summer we can build this immunity wall that will enable us to return to normality and to tourism as well. That is all, Mr President, from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, if she wishes, has a third-party right. He doesn't want to. The debate is therefore adjourned on number 14/12/15-2-2021 on the subject: 'The pandemic has brought about further deterioration in Western Athens'. For health reasons, we will have a short break for two to three minutes to enter the next circle of topical questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 8 March 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 481/25-2-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary I Athens of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The National Palaggenesia is re-written by our students". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 484/26-2-2021, a timely question by MP I Athens of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on “Who commands schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. 3. The question under number 486/28-2-2021 by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Thousands of unprotected households from the recent bad weather "Medea" in Attica". 4. The question by No 499/1-32021, raised by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct measures to protect the health and life of workers with an obligation for businesses to implement appropriate measures for the non-supply of the koroni". 5. The 490/1-32021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Evia: eight new wind parks in protected areas. Without end the diversion from European legislation, despite convictions.' B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 511/1-32021 by Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: 'Forest Maps'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 494/1-32021 of the Greek MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "Scandaceous approval of the Operational Plan of Anti-Frequency Recycling S.A.". by the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Recycling Agency (EOAN)’. 3. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of the abolition of a reduction in the National Retirement of the members of the Greek minority of Albania and of the relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis, Minister for Culture and Sport, on "Direct measures to support clubs and athletes in the relaunch of sport". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: Nafplio - Strong dysosmia from the uncontrolled pollution of the wetland of Neos Kios. 6. The 510/1-32021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Problems in Educational Structures at the Special Adventure Reservation. " 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 489/1-32021 of the Member of the Argolida movement of Change Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Actual availability in intensive treatment beds (IMP)". 8. The Question No 503/1-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The necessary water management projects in the Prefecture of Chania". 9. The Question No 492/1-32021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Sermitis Corfu: No end the destruction of nature". 10. The Question No 506/1-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Transparency and respect of legality - Stop vaccination of days'. 11. The Question No 502/1-32021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To withdraw the decision to remove NON COVID beds from the CSD Hospital and to develop CIVID beds without the necessary staff and equipment." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 3663/462/28-1-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The questions remain: How is the public interest in the supply of equipment to be sorted at the source of the Special Inter-State Association of Attica (EDN)?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘The employer's contributions to the insurance of his employees, engineers and old insured, 2007-2013’. 3. The 1658/11-11-2020 question of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Inaction and indifference for the Sheikh - So from the state and the municipalities involved". 4. The question and application under number 3650/401/28-1-2021 of the Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Respect for the health and safety rules in the Phonostic Fertilisers Industry of Neo Carvalas Kavalas and the successor companies'. 5. Question No 3493/22-1-2021 by MP Halkidikis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: 'The Question No 504/1-32021 will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos. Question No 480/23-2-2021, by Mr Ephremidis, on grounds of lack of competence, will not be answered. Question No 483/26-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Questions Nos 479/22-2-2021 and 482/26-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Theocharis. Question No 497/1-32021 will be answered by Deputy Minister of Interior, Stylianos Pechas. Question No 495/1-32021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos. Question No 496/1-32021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis.' First we will discuss the fifth under No 496/1-32021 topical question by SYRIZA MP for the second cycle - the Progressive Alliance of Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Antagonistic decisions on how the driving schools operate'. Mr Marcus, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since 6 November 2020 your decision has suspended the operation of driving schools, as well as the conduct of theoretical and practical examinations of candidate drivers. The same joint ministerial decision, however, allowed the training and examination - both theoretical and practical - of candidate bus and lorries drivers, including examination for certificates of professional competence, with a distance of one and a half metres and a participation of up to five trainees. Apart from the obvious inconsistency of the measures taken, since two other sectors are allowed to take two cars on each vehicle - taxi and IX - with the confusion caused by this causes a very great problem for drivers of driving and traffic, since two-speed schools are now being created, those that have a licence to pass on courses to candidate bus and truck drivers and therefore continue to operate and have revenues, making their schools even partially viable and to those who do not have the licence in question, in which case they remain closed, with what this entails. So you're asking, Mr. Minister: On the basis of what scientific data is the training of candidate car drivers and motorcycles banned, while the training and examination of candidate bus and truck drivers is allowed? Secondly, what epidemiological criteria is the decision not to be taken by a trainer with a trainee in the same car, since the same number is permitted in taxis and in IX cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u117	And we thank Mr Marcus. Mr President, you have the floor to answer Mr Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u118	Mr Colleague, in fact with the Joint Ministerial Decision of 6 November 2020 and in the context of emergency measures to protect public health against the risk of further dispersal of the coronary, the Government proceeded to suspend both theoretical and practical education courses, as well as in practices and theoretical examinations for both cycles and passenger vehicles. Under very specific conditions, however, the theoretical and practical courses for the certification of the capacity for the carriage of goods and passengers, i.e. the PIs, as well as the conduct of theoretical and practical examinations for the acquisition of a driving licence in the professional categories C and D and in those subcategories, were allowed. The two main reasons that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has recommended an exception to the Commission for the protection of public health against the coronary - and it has finally been accepted - I think they should be to everyone who is evident. Firstly, Mr President, as far as freight transport is concerned, throughout the pandemic, because of lockdown, the demand for freight transport has risen sharply and you realise that there were constant needs for drivers who had to have their professional driving licence precisely for this increase that was caused in the pandemic. Secondly, I would remind you that there was an ongoing assignment of part of the transport load by OSCE to the CBELs, which also created the need to find professional bus drivers and comparables increased and the six hundred jobs directly through this process. I would therefore like to believe that in principle no one would argue that the exclusion of the training of professional truck drivers and buses, if it were not there, on the one hand, would jeopardise the operation of the supply chain - and, on the other hand, when we say 'the supply chain in the country, we are talking about priority goods, medicines, food, for which we need transport, we need professional drivers to avoid a shortage - and on the other hand, it would jeopardise the strengthening of the urban transport in Athens, which - I remind you - that your party has constantly placed in the public debate. Now, in your question with what scientific data the training and examination of candidate drivers has been banned, the answer is that the vast majority of those who are trained and tested are in categories A and B, namely the motorcycle and passenger vehicle, while on the contrary the number of those who are professional drivers is quite small. So you realise that the risk of dispersal of the coronary in one case is much smaller and combined with the reasons for the emergency, i.e. strengthening the supply chain and also urban transport, there was a need for an exception. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as the conditions of protection are concerned - and I conclude with that, Mr President - against the coronary, these have been set by the committee responsible and have been accepted by the government. Whether this leads, of course, to two speeds, as you said, in terms of driver schools, so that I do not abuse time, I will respond to my second language. I think you will be given an answer there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marcos has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u120	Minister, let us look at an example. In Patras we have thirty-five driver schools. Of them, only eight have trucks licensed. Thus, the twenty-seven schools remain completely closed, while the eight still, even substantially, can be maintained. In addition to the obvious injustice, however, it is being violated - by a ministerial decision - and competition. The same figures apply to the rest of Greece. 30% of schools operate and 70% are fully suspended, i.e. absolute despair, since support measures for driver school owners are judged to be nonexistent to insufficient. This means that at the two thousand five hundred schools at a pan-Hellenic level, the thousands of seven hundred fifty have been completely closed for months and without government support, while the other seven hundred fifty have been working. But for the latter too, the common denominator is true that the government has not taken care of any support. In addition to the absence of financial support in the form of a positive provision, however, your Ministry did not take care of or show any other relief measures. For example, why would the owners of driver schools pay traffic charges for their service vehicles? These are immobilized. Five months now they're parked on the sidewalk, not a single metre. Do you not think that at least they should be relieved of this obligation? Why, really, is this indifference, which touches the limits of analgesia? On the other hand, you chose to prevent lessons in buses and trucks. Good. For buses you said there is a justification, in the sense that because of the pandemic new drivers are needed to conjugate the routes. Where did you see the dense routes? Where did you see her acquire new buses? Public transport is moving - what is moving, if not less before pandemic - with the same conditions for citizens. In fact, there is no scientist who disputes that it is the main source of coronary transmission. Where'd you see most buses in public transport? Nowhere! The trucks you said they needed for the supply chain. Okay. There's always an explanation for something, but accept that there's an explanation for the other categories. But I'm going to the detail, actually. The cabin of a truck has a width of one square meter and they are three people, namely the instructor, teacher and examiner. You have allowed this cabin the presence of three people, while in the IX, in which one will sit in the back seat, with one square again, you do not allow it. This is obvious irrationality. You know, when there are these contradictory policies, public confidence in the size of the problem is shaken, and that creates a catalyst in the issues of conspiracy and denial, and that is dangerous. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But to the motorcycles, you've been over the worst. The candidate is alone on a motorcycle and the instructor and the examiner is far away. What's the problem? That's what you've been over each other. Anyway, there's no excuse. Please, correct these injustices, because, really, that's what has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too, Mr Marcus. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will start with your comment. You said: 'Where are most buses?' Let me remind you that in July 2019 we received eight hundred fifty buses and trolleybuses for Athens and more generally for the Lefkanopedio and two hundred thirty-five for Thessaloniki, for the wider area of Thessaloniki Prefecture. Currently in Athens there are a thousand two hundred fifty, an increase of over 50% - you can see the figures - and in Thessaloniki, where unfortunately the previous government has just given us thirty-five buses, at this time every day four hundred and fifty buses are moving. If you even ask our fellow citizens in Thessaloniki, they know very well where it is. Are we happy with this? Oh, no. Of course we must go further. In one case, however, in the Lefkapedi area, we are talking about an increase of 50%, and in the second case, in Thessaloniki, the increase is almost 80% and, of course, transport in the two major cities will gradually be further strengthened. You will allow me, Mr Colleague, to set you very briefly the operating conditions of a school of drivers. Under the current legislation on driver school obligations when it is set up, it is to provide theoretical and practical courses for preparation for all categories of driving licence, A, B, C, D, and motorcycles and cars, and of course for professional diplomas. In practice many driving schools either do not have the financial capacity to buy and maintain educational trucks or buses or do not meet the needs of a potential clientele do not have these vehicles. This, of course, does not prevent them from attracting and accepting potential drivers of occupational categories, i.e. carrying out these theoretical courses, and then transferring these candidates to other drivers' schools in order to carry out their practical training. Indeed, this dominant practice is not prohibited by existing legislation and was also applicable before COVID and in the middle of COVID. What does that mean, Mr. Comrade? That we do not rule out any schools, we do not create two categories of schools as you mentioned in your prototype and repeat in your dentext, and in no case did the joint ministerial decision signed in November affect it. Therefore, schools of drivers who do not currently have an educational bus or truck can attract candidates, even by this process, to the theoretical courses and then to other schools. These are the two speeds you mentioned. If you think this is an opportunity to open up the debate on the establishment and operation of driving schools in general and how they will work, I, of course, am also available to the House and to the committee to open it. We will, moreover, proceed with an amendment to the Presidential Decree on the operation of schools, and each proposal is acceptable. I would also like to tell you something else, Mr President. As a government, we recommend to the committee, the so-called 'Committee on Logistics', and there, depending on the data of the time, decisions are taken. When the pandemic issue at some point showed that it retreated, we also proposed allowing the theoretical and practical examinations to be carried out in the two cycles, mainly where there is indeed no such great fear, and possibly even in cars. The committee's suggestion in this case was negative because you have seen what is happening in the last few days. In no case shall we put public health at second instance - I think that at least we can all agree in this Chamber - on any difficulties which really exist in the operation of these specific driving schools. When the epidemiological data permits, we will reintroduce our request as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, so that the examinations - and the practices and the theoretical - can be reinitiated, and of course the lessons of these categories, of the two types and of the cars - can be reintroduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the debate of the sixth, with number 497/1-3-2021, a topical question by MP B3' of the South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Reengagement of the Faliric Front". The Deputy Minister of Interior will respond, Mr. Stelios Petsas. Mr Balafa, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, the timely question we are discussing today concerns the renovation projects, as the President has said, the Falirian Orm on the coastal front. This is an emblematic project, I would say, a work of breath for the entire area of the southern suburbs of Athens, especially for the municipalities of Kallithea and Moschatos - Taurou. This, because - if you want - restores contact with the sea that had been interrupted by the junta's 'integrity wall' already since 1970. At the same time, however, this work leads to an improvement in the quality of life of all the people of Attica. The project started in 2016, while the studies have been ready since 2004. So the project started in 2016 on the District Rena Dourou and was completed over the term of Ms. Durous a large part of the first phase of the project, with particular emphasis on my part of the anti-military project, which is absolutely essential for the region. He continued from today's principle of Mr Patulis, and I would like to say that Phase I should have been completed already. Let it be. This is where the problems arise, which raise concerns, questions about the further progress of the project, the plans of the regional authority and, more generally, the public administration as to whether and whether the project is in the priorities of the regional authority. Because we have the following. Why is the second-phase auction unduly delayed? Because the regional authority chooses a different procedure for Phase II, such as, for example, importing "study-building", which for anyone technically knows exactly what is going on, only delays and other negatives can be created. Furthermore, why is Mr Patolis prepared to provide a lack of resources and difficulty in finding resources, while it is assumed that the project can well be financed by the Public Investment Programme? The figures are not huge. I am also not hiding you the concern that exists in general from the recruitment of a financial advisor to indicate the economic model with which the second phase will proceed. This, as you can see, leads to thoughts of partnerships with large private capital and private business there. All this raises the previous concern among the residents, in the municipal councils. Therefore, as you know, there are two unanimously adopted resolutions - decisions from a joint meeting of the two municipal councils - Kallithea and Moschatos - Taurou - one in November 2020 and the other recently, in mid-February 2021. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you are asking yourself, Minister, this. I would ask for answers not general, if you are kind, but specific answers, so that we too can inform the interested parties, be they citizens, be they municipal councils, or mayors. The question is clear: What action do you intend to take, in the context of your powers, in order, first and foremost, to open up the works of Phase II in accordance with the approved final study? In fact, the study is prepared by the large, well-known and valid study office of Mr. ‘I. Papayannnis’. In addition, through this tender procedure, the publicity of the coastal front of the area is absolutely guaranteed. In other words, the public ecological park that the study provides for is open to all citizens. Also, immediately complete Phase I.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u125	But finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u126	I'll be right back in a second. Thank you, Mr President. Secondly, the establishment of an administrative body, involving the two Municipalities, Kallithea and Moschatos - Tavros. Finally, I would like to ask you, if you are in a position, of course, to have a timetable binding on all sides - regional, central government, a contractor - so that we do not have the continuous extensions that we are used to - unfortunately - Mr Patulis's regional authority. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you have the floor with comfort to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Mr Balafa, who gives me the opportunity to discuss today a genuinely flagrant project, as he described it - and so it is - that changes the appearance of the region from the Peace and Friendship Stadium to after the Delta Falikikos and actually gives citizens uninterrupted access from land to the sea and especially those who are citizens in the municipalities of Moschatos, Taurou and of course Callitheas, as well as all other visitors of the region. It is a flagship project, a project that is progressing in accordance with Presidential Decree 2013. You give me the opportunity, Mr Balafa, to state clearly that the public nature of the project has not changed. It has therefore been confirmed by all operators that this character is not changed and free access for all citizens from urban tissue to sea is truly guaranteed. A second element is what you raised on the issue of funding. The question of funding was indeed a problem because, although the previous regional authority had gone ahead with the studies you mentioned, it had not been possible to finance, because according to the information received from the Attica Region - and the relevant document I will table in the minutes - there were far more obligations for the region than for the money at its disposal to carry out the projects that had been included in the budget or which had been agreed with programme agreements with the neighbouring municipalities. In addition, the provision was not provided for the establishment of a management and maintenance organisation and safe operation of the green areas provided for in the project. That's moving on, too. As far as my priorities are concerned, and what I intend to do as the Deputy Minister for the Interior on these matters is that I have already visited Attica twice. I have spoken with the district manager and his colleagues about this project. The timetable is quite clear. Completion of the first phase on 31-5-2021, so on May 31, the first phase will be completed, including the main modes of transport that have to do with both tram and roads related to this project. It goes on then in the second phase, for which the timetable will be discussed at our next debate. I will be able to describe exactly how it will proceed after the consultation we have made with the region and after we await the completion of the first decisive phase on 31 May. I also have two basic points to add to the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior concerning the funding of the region in general. The first element is the integration of the anti-military protection programme into the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Program, and this refers to the project for the settlement of the Ilissus River with the implementing body of the Attica region, a budget of 10 million euros that was incorporated in the year 2020 and is absolutely necessary. The second element relates to the financing from the CAP of EUR 6440,000 planned to be attributed to the Region of Attica for the year 2021 to cover its investment costs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u129	Mr Balafa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am sorry to say this sincerely, but you are a bit of a generalist. You have not covered our concerns and not just ours, but also the residents. I am pleased that you have reiterated the public nature of the project. That's good, we keep it, and we'll be careful about this thing. Why do you know something? In order to make the debate effective, Mr Petsas - and look at it and then - the public as this is the case, the public-guaranteed, the second phase - despite the delay - will be auctioned in the final study that is already ready, then what does Mr Patulis want with the financial advisor? Getting a technical counselor, I'm an engineer, I get it. But why financial? When it's a given that you've got your final contest, you're assigning the work to the contractor who's going to pay off. It's just things. What does he want with the financial advisor whose existence at best will cause delay? Look at that. I do not know how much you can interfere with these issues, and I understand that, but within your responsibilities and after all - in the context of the logic and the right reason, what the financial advisor needs. Why change the process with which the project has so far gone? Because no matter how good it is - Mr Petsa, I do not know if you know it - a project from the Peace and Friendship Stage to Varkiza, which is moving forward to build a public ecological park. All the other things, well or bad, I do not judge at the moment, have been given private business. I'm not judging this right now, I'm saying again. Let's stay where he is. The scale of the project, the importance of the project, being able within forty minutes a family from Peristeri, using Metro and other public transport, to be at sea is not a small thing. This is for those in trouble and difficulty. There are others, of course, who are 'damaging' in Kavouri and Buliagmen. We're not talking about them. I will conclude, for the funding, because I think you have not touched on this. Maybe I didn't notice. The Recovery Fund is being discussed. The Recovery Fund, the allocation and what projects will be subject to and financed from there is a process which, according to your data, will end next month. Isn't that right? That's right. If we are going to join it, but because there is too much difficulty or inability to join, there is no other solution if we do not want to privatise it. And you know what privatization means? I am not generally against cooperation with private business. None of us are. This is not what this is all about. Here, instead of being green and green, they will become heavy commercial uses, such as the Greek one. This is the fillet, the challenge, and that is what we must avoid from yours, and you want to avoid it. That is why I agree with you. Finally, for the timescales. We've got bad experience. Previously I listened to Mr. Kefaliannis who is a noble minister and man. He was convincing when we talked a few days ago about a bridge in Poseidon in our constituency and told me that late February, early March, the bridge would be ready. The bridge's not ready yet. I say this in the sense not only of delay but of the risk of changing the nature of the project. Here we are, and we'll probably see you again. Thank you very much, Mr. Pecha. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have much to add. In most cases, I agree with Mr Balafa. It is indeed a flagship work that there is no room for micro-political confrontation. The project's implementation program proceeds according to the design I said before, i.e. Phase I ends on May 31st. It is very important that this should be completed and that we move on to the second phase. I replied to you before that the public nature of the project has been ensured, all the departments responsible from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Ministry of Infrastructure, all agree on it. And with regard to the specific question you asked about the technical consultant and his necessity, which is the only one to answer, I will submit to the minutes the answer of the region to which it refers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 504/1-32021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Selective filling of vacant organic positions of officials of the Legal Council of State". Ms. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I tabled this topical question because I had no answer to your question on the very same issue on 24-7-2020. As you well know, the successful table of the Legal Council of State ended early on 30-9-2020, following your suggestion, Minister, to vote on a relevant legislative provision, which was included in No 4174/2020, adopted in July 2020. At the same time, with the same law, Minister, you have introduced nine empty organic positions at the Legal Council of State, with the result that after the adoption of this draft law, there will be fifteen vacant organic positions of the Legal Council of State. I present for the minutes the relevant document 1, "Enlargement of vacant posts by Judicial Plenipotentiary I of the Legal Council of the State of Fanourakis". [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And you, instead of covering all the fifteen empty organic positions that existed at that time, August-September 2020, rushed, in September 2020, to select selectively only four additional successful ones. Note that today, Minister, the empty organic office of officials at the Legal Council of State has increased further and is now sixteen, while on 1 July 2021, it will be twenty-eight, according to written information from the Legal Council of State. Because of this extension that you yourself granted, it was possible to select, Mr Minister, fourteen more successful successful ones, more than the directly nominated ones, as the ten of them were appointed in July 2020 and the remaining four in September 2020. And while the President of the Legal Council of the State had recommended in writing the maintenance of the successful table by April 2021, you, Minister, rejected not only the official recommendations of the Chairman of the Legal Council of State, but also the related parliamentary amendment, tabled by ten Members of the Change Movement on 22 September 2020, in order to re-expand the successful table. I shall put forward document 2 on the Minutes, Mr President, the written information on the vacancy and the timetable. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So, then, you can understand that the following questions are created - I think they are reasonable. First, as nine vacant posts were left in September 2020, why did you, Mr Minister, decide to leave them empty, while you could appoint equals who were successful until the accelerated end of the table on 30-9-2020? I wonder what the undetermined hits really differ from the fourteen overall hits, which you rushed to appoint in July and September 2020? Let us know if there are two of you successors of both speeds, both of them and of them. What political purposes are served, Minister? What political purposes are served by the conscious subjugation of the Legal Council of the State which makes it difficult, as we all understand, to defend the public interest effectively? Because here, in addition to all others, we also have a flagrant unjust treatment, which concerns the remaining undetermined successors, who have waited for five years from 2014 to 2019, in order to give them an opportunity to participate in the introductory competition of the Legal Council of State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u135	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you will allow me to tell you that the content of your question and the placement was at least unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory. In the Greek vocabulary, the selective filling of vacant posts means you're taking I and you're not taking II. There's a number of rankings, it's not selective. Secondly, you say that you asked a question on 24 July and I did not answer you. I shall reply, as I have said here, to the House on 29 July. We've had some facts since...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u137	You didn't answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u138	You will allow me to tell you that the question has already been answered because the government has adopted it and is on 29 July. So let us put them in a little order, because I would at least expect you to have taken the Minutes of the plenary session. What's the procedure, my colleague? In accordance with Presidential Decree 238/2003, the filling of the seats of test judges of the Legal Council of the State shall be carried out by means of a competitive procedure. The notice shall indicate, inter alia, the number of posts. For the final result of the tender, a scoreboard of successful tenderers shall be drawn up in a ranking order. Appointing those who have achieved the invitation to tender shall be in accordance with the order of inclusion in the table. Positions which are vacant or recommended within one year - within one year, my colleague - from the publication of the list of successful ones are covered by the table and in the order of registration. It is therefore laid down that the covering of posts at the Legal Council of the State is to be carried out by means of a successful invitation to tender for the number of posts provided for in the notice. Further needs under the successful list can only be met within one year - the second time I say it - after the table has been published. Regular tendering obligation is not provided for in the current legislation. It is clear that this procedure serves to serve the service of the Law Council of the State with the most competent staff force following a meritful and transparent procedural procedure. The long-term extension of the ranking table is at risk, as I said in plenary, and I repeat, to circumvent the purpose and the existing legislation governing the functioning of the Legal Council of State, excluding from the competitive process those who are interested in participating in a competition on equal, transparent terms. What is your point? In 2018, the Legal Council of the State opened an invitation to tender to fill how many seats? Fifty-six empty organic positions. Was the hit list published when? 24-2-2019. When did the table come into effect, my fellow Member, since that is the case with the statutes? 11-4-2020. At 11-4-2020 anyway, it was one year for which you were cut. In view of the Government's fact that in May the country experienced unprecedented conditions due to the health crisis, without at that time being able to predict the development of things in relative confidence, it was considered necessary to extend the list of successful ones to cover the direct operating needs of the State's Law Council. How many immediate needs, colleague? I have tabled the document from the Legal Council of the State. The President of the Council of State said that: I want fourteen to 12-4-2021. I don't need any more. So what did the state do? It extended the table for a period of time to meet the needs of the President and Legal Council of the State until 12-2021, in accordance with the document of the Chairman of the Legal Council of State. So when you say here 'you approved selectively and even though you had been informed in writing of the existing vacancy', you would have had the existing vacancy. So you're not telling the truth. This is the document, which I tabled in plenary, dated 1-6-2020, and where he said 'up to 12-4-2021', Madam President. So for fourteen people, the president of the Legal Council of the State said, and we have all covered them. In fact others were created, and in 2021 they will also be created, and I will reply to my denology, what we intend to do in the Rules of Procedure of the Legal Council of State, which will shortly be put into public consultation and the Legal Council of State will be proposing competitions at regular intervals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u140	I'd honestly expect something better, Minister, because you're playing with our intelligence. First you lie when you say you answered my question. You never answered the House in my question. So don't fake reality. Is that the way of new governance, Mr. Stakoura? So raw and flagrant falsification of reality? I invite you to tell me when you answered. Because by 'good morning' you began to lie. You have also said many more lies, which I will prove to you now. To speak of real and real facts, Minister, not of blatant lies. I was expecting something better than you. I'm really sorry. I'm sorry. So let me remind you, Minister, that the immediately prior introductory competition of the Legal Council of State was announced in the year 2013, to know what the story is and what is happening. Because here you are presenting things as they suit you, not based on history and events. In 2013, therefore, the successful table, which listed sixty-three people, was presented in full, despite the fact that the notice concerned only fifteen posts. It is good to know how the state works, since there is a continuation of the state, which Mr Mitsotakis is coming out and says that he supports it. But obviously, you're saying more, Mr. Stakoura. That 2013 successful panel was maintained in force almost three years, from February 2014 to December 2016, and its annual in principle - because you tell us various extensions, that it is not - it has been extended twice, by one year each time. It should be noted that the first extension was granted in March 2015, after its expiry in February 2015. So that painting, to understand, revived retrospectively. It is therefore completely inaccurate to claim that it is supposedly legally impossible, that there is no extension, what you have told us today, because the latter invitation to tender stated that the successful table was valid for one year. I'd expect something better. Indeed, Mr President, it is common to define this in all competition notices, but this does not in any case prohibit the granting of an extension from Parliament. That's what's happening. That's how it's done over time, Mr. Stakoura. Moreover, according to the invitation of the last invitation to tender, any vacancies arising from the Legal Council of the State as long as the table is in force shall be covered by the successors of the table, if there are appropriations. I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. In short, the House has had and has always had the opportunity to extend the list in order to appoint all those successful, since there are, of course, additional vacant posts needed. Mr. Stavura, I want to remind you of something, because I don't know if your memory has forgotten. You yourself, Minister, have in the past supported exactly what I am saying to you at the moment, of course, as a Member of the PASOK Governance Officer, with Prime Minister George Papandreou. In particular, under No 2236/17-12-2010, with your parliamentary reference to the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Harry Kastanides, on governance, Giorgos Papandreou, you yourself, as a Member of the then-determined officer, have shown particular interest in taking advantage of all the undetermined successors of the written contest for the recruitment of judges until the absorption of all eighty-fifths of the then-determined five successors. Mr President, I am tabling paragraph 3 and paragraph 4: the reference I spoke about before, and a note of successors. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Instead, today you deny convincingly - I wonder if it was another Mr Stavuras then another Mr Stagioras, what has changed today? - to cover even the existing sixteen vacant posts of the Legal Council of the State. In fact, in order to achieve your purpose, did you withdraw - did you not tell us before? - the validity of the table you yourself, Mr Stakoura, had previously extended. You've been prolonging this painting for a few months. So don't make fun of us! We don't eat gossip.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u141	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, things have been said here which are completely inaccurate, at least. Answers must be given! Because here we have two yards and two weights from the Minister and a complete reversal of reality. And in order to achieve this, Minister, you did not hesitate to invoke the document to which you referred, the document of the President of the Legal Council of State dated 1-6-2020, which stated that there would be no additional gaps until April 2021. Didn't you tell us before to present us as a presumption? You yourself, yes, had demanded to grant it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u143	Ms. Giannakopoulou, look at the time. He's overreacting. That's not tolerant. It's an exaggeration. Hang up, please. Make it a topical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u144	I shall conclude, Mr President. But here - and this has to be heard in the Greek Parliament - you yourself misled the President of the Council of State, because he was unable to know the new positions that you would recommend, as you did at the Legal Council of State. So I urge you to speak with truth, to leave the evasive escapades in practice and to reintroduce the list of successful ones, as you were asking when you were a Member of the Confederalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u145	Minister, you have the floor with comfort to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much. Madam President, I am not aware of your eating habits, nor am I concerned, because you said 'knock'. I'm not going to go into a crescendo of irresponsible opposition odor you're accustomed to, nor to a ton of voice...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u147	What do you mean by eating habits?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u148	Ms. Giannakopoulou, you haven't interrupted. You said a lot of things I don't know if the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u149	What does it mean by eating habits? What does he mean, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u150	You don't have the floor. Don't lose your temper! Mrs. Giannakopoulou, please put the mask on and don't lose your temper. Please. You don't sound. Don't write anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u151	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u152	Ms. Giannakopoulou, it's not that behavior. Please. Sit fast, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u153	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u154	Ms. Giannakopoulou, yes, I hear. I have ears and eyes and I can see. I'm judging, comparing and listening. You were heard while you were very strict, very aggressive and no one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u155	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u156	You don't have the floor. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u157	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u158	I'm sorry, because this conduct from you didn't expect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u159	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u160	Ms. Giannakopoulou, that's enough! Don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u161	So I will leave you in your loneliness of the irresponsible opposition otter both in such a voice, in style, but also in a finger motion. When I said that on 24 July you asked a question, Mrs Giannakopoulos, and I repeat it now, I obviously answered the House because a law followed. Ms. Giannakopoulou, I heard you. If you want to listen to me. 'Cause you obviously don't listen to me, so you've been left in the past. On July 24, you asked a question, and then there was a law of the state. I was put to the House for all the questions you say on 29 July. So I also answered the question you raised and which was part of your position at that time. You said the same in the House and then. Since then there has been a law. You said that I misled the President of the Council of State. But if that's possible! I have tabled a document - and I am tabling it again in the Minutes - in which the chairman of the Legal Council of the State says how many organic positions will be. But it has a greater interest, because we really need to look at the future. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is true that participation in such an important competitive process entails a great deal of effort and personal costs. However, participation in it is carried out and must be carried out in the knowledge that it is in line with what is stated, Madam President, by Presidential Decree 238/2003. You know, there's a presidential decree. On the one hand, it aims to cover the positions on which a notice has been issued. On the other hand, any further use of the list for position coverage may not exceed one year after its publication. This information is known to everyone involved in the competitive process. The fact is, however, that the lack of periodicity in the awarding of tenders gives rise to insecurity and burdens the personal costs which are undoubtedly borne by all those who are toiling for their introduction into the Board of Legal Affairs of the State. However, the same insecurity, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, are also experienced by those who intend to participate in a competition on the Legal Council of the State and who have not participated to date or have failed. You didn't talk about them. The Ministry of Finance, in accordance with what we said here in Parliament in the summer of 2020, in cooperation with, Madam President, with the leadership of the Legal Council of the State proposing legislative intervention, will shortly put in public the new Organisation of the Legal Council of State with which they are introduced following a recommendation from the Legal Council of State, inter alia, changes in the competitive procedure with the provision of the introductory tender at regular intervals. And this is a recommendation from the Legal Council of the State. This important piece of legislation is intended to contribute to the uninterrupted functioning of the Law Council of the State through effective and timely coverage at regular intervals of time. At the same time, it will allow interested parties to plan more safely their participation in a forthcoming competition and their entry into the Legal Council of State. With this initiative, the Ministry of Finance removes the uncertainty caused by the lack of periodicity of the tender and restores the sense of law. It is clear that relevant legislative interventions in this field will ensure that the body is staffed with competent executives and that the human resources shortages are immediately filled through a worthwhile competitive process, in which all Greek citizens will be able to participate at regular intervals. Our aim is to effectively exercise the ever-increasing responsibilities of the Law Council of the State by making the best use of its main and administrative personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next timely question to which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. It is the first under number 483/26-2-2021 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Drama Mr. Konstantinos Bluchos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Implementation of the Vertical Axis of Egnatia Road Drama - Amphipolis". Here, Mr. Blush, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, in order to continue from where we left the thread yesterday in the legislation that we voted on and you were from the accelerated ministries, I referred to some examples in my speech in support of the entire effort made by our Government and in relation to your own legislation. One of these was to deal with six governments building a penitentiary store, which will function impracticably in desolation due to the prolonged and universal unemployment of the local residents. You know that, Minister, it's the Nikiforos Penitentiary. We are obviously on the way to integration, but after too many years. To seek the construction of a road linking a Macedonian city and a border station with Egnatia during the term of office of six governments is one of these issues which most frequently make the operation of the Greek state, with due regard, non-productive and clearly inconsistent. Mr Minister, the vertical link between Drama and Amphipolis and the Egnatia Road has been a constant request from the people of our region for many years now. Drama is one of the few remaining Macedonian cities that do not have a vertical connection with Egnatia, thus weakening and declaring the development prospects of the prefecture. Drama has the largest production of marble in Greece. Marble is mainly exported, contributing to a large proportion to the total exports of the country and gives the great proportion of our region's GDP. The speed of its movement into a safe road network and the huge burden of the existing provincial road network from its transport are two factors that should speed up these and only the procedures for the construction of the vertical axis project. Drama also has a group of companies either industrial or commercial, which use the existing particularly hard-pressed road network. And because I know both your sensitivity and your special attention and attention to this issue, I would mention that it is a big and very important issue to mention that it is the already struggling network because of many roads. I am a surgeon at the Drama Hospital, and I assure you, Minister, that many times we have been called to lose ourselves to accidents for the needs of the Rodolivo Health Center, which is very close to Drama. I can assure you that the blood tax paid by the dramas and the sheriffs is great, as is the non-lethal accidents which have caused either the physical entity of the people and the disabilities they cause, and the other resulting costs. I should also briefly like to mention, Mr Minister, the unique prospect of the future development of the archaeological sites of Amphipolis, along with our own in the Drama Regional Unit and of course the Philippi in the Kavala Regional Unit. So the interconnection of these stations, so I shall refer to them, you realize what a real prospect it will open to our region. The work of the vertical axis of Egnatia has, however, been exploited over the years, with several declarations of intent from all the governments of the past twenty years. It is necessary to promote the procedures for the immediate completion and achievement of the project's curriculum maturity in order to proceed as soon as possible. The coordination of studies and the early tendering of the project will be the biggest development move in our prefecture for many decades. That is why it is a work of life in Drama Prefecture and not unfairly. We therefore consider the necessity and importance of the project to be unreasonable. The government's intention and yours as Minister is for granted. Coordination is what is needed and the political will to ensure that the project is completed is tangible. The reintroduction to the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace as a competent body and the main project of the management and management tasks of study and construction and other necessary support actions for the implementation of the important project by the "Egnatia S.A." was a one-way road and it is good that it has already been launched.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u164	Mr Colleague, proceed to the questions. Questions put to questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm on the question. Thank you for your tolerance. Our commitment to launch and complete the whole project must quickly take flesh and bone, as the continued delay - justified in many respects because of the challenges we have faced the previous period - leads the local population to frustration and political negativity, given the two decades of promises and announcements that preceded it. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions: will the desire of the people of regional unity be heard in order to speed up the process of maturation and the auctioning of the project? Has the required cost-benefit analysis been launched? Has it been proposed as a project in the Recovery Fund? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. Minister, you have your word for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, Mr Blucho, I am aware of the interest you have shown in this road, and you know the efforts that have been made on the part of the government to carry out a project which, as we both know - you are dealing with Drama, because I am dealing with the Serres Prefecture - is a project which many governments have promised for many years. So to take things in turn to give clear answers and clear timetables. In July 2019, the truth is that we did not find studying maturity in the Ministry for the part of the Drama - Amphipolis road axis. The truth is that we found some premeditated studies, but in essence there were not enough studies at maturity to start work. In short, for eight years, from 2013 to 2021, they had become, the truth is, a few things. So we had to run the procedures so that we could mature our studies and proceed with the tendering of the project, a project which, as you quite rightly said, would get Drama out of isolation. So I am here today to tell you - both to you and to the House and to those who are listening to us, because I see also Mr SYRIZA's dear colleague who is interested himself and thank him here for his presence - where we are now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u168	My obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u169	Be well. We are therefore at the point of telling you that the study of the Drama - Amphipolis road, the Paleokkomi - Mavroulouki section, has essentially been completed. I would remind you that the object of the study was to prepare all the necessary studies of road construction, plumbing and static for this piece which is twenty-and-a-half kilometers. We're talking about a two-lane closed highway in the direction and with a separating island. I note that the study concerns not only the basic artery - and that is very basic - but also the whole of the individual road restoration projects of the local network. We all know that, throughout the region, we have many problems on the so-called provincial and secondary roads. At the moment, the whole contractual, technical object has been approved and we are waiting for the final receipt. What have we done? Firstly, we have done the contract of all the transport studies on the final study of road construction and plumbing of the unequal nodes. Secondly, we have done the contract for static studies on the final studies of twelve technical projects and, thirdly, we have done the final studies of road construction and plumbing of the unequal nodes in the Mesorrachi, in Small Souli and wherever they need elsewhere. Fourthly, we have made the contract for all electromechanical studies. We're practically talking about street lighting. Now we're studying the benefits cost. At the moment, the study is being prepared and we are talking about the first part, for which the Ministry is responsible, namely the Paleokkomi-Mavroulouki, a road of twenty-nine and a half kilometres budget of EUR 150 million. And we did something else that is unprecedented and shows that we are not late. The expropriations, which constitute, if you like, a 'green' of delays, we took them in the process of 7a, so that we do not expect, as in other projects, three to seven years to become expropriations. I'm going to answer my second part about that second part I'm sure that's your concern. I have the following to say, we are going to auction the Paleokoli-Mavroli piece in 2021. We have proposed this to the Recovery Fund for funding. We believe that we will have a positive outcome, but even if we do not, we have other financial instruments. That's why we're doing the cost-benefit study. We'll find some other financial tools to put it in. But I hope that, in cooperation with Mr. Paklakas and the Ministers responsible, we will be able to achieve the integration of this road, because it has maturity since it will be auctioned in 2021, within the wider programme of the Recovery Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Minister. Mr Blochus has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, the answer to the Paleokkomi-Mavroulouki section is extremely satisfactory. I thought that - and I too, but it is a matter for our fellow citizens to take it for granted, and that is why these answers on your part needed - the political will not to waste any more time and to enter the process of integration because of its necessity, but mainly because of its importance for local society. However, there is a certain fact that there is also the remaining part, the remaining part of Mavroulouli - Drama, for which I will speak on the basis of my own knowledge, which I have drawn directly after the taking over of the country's rule by our government. Because I had contacts at that time with the 'Egnatia' and its current administration, and I know very well that the curriculum maturity in this section was very humble. I mean, there was not even studying maturity, despite what we call the opposite, but we are not even concerned about creating any impressions here. I think that these projects should not be acidified and polarised. On the contrary. And that is why the presence, I think, of the colleague here also points out that interest is particularly important from an energetic society. However, we have some data and these data relate to study maturity in this section. I believe that this and with your own contribution will be "locked" by transferring responsibilities to the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, since they have the technical capabilities, i.e. the technical service has the luxury of updating all these studies and depositing them to the degree of maturity required. I would just like your comment on this part. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, in order to take a step back and give a full picture of the project, this work has been divided into two parts. We, instead of delaying and trying to complete it all together, came, as you quite rightly said, in contact with the district and with the district manager and we talked about the first part, Paleokome - Mavroulouki, where the Ministry "run" the processes and there were some studies since 2013. I do not want to put it all together, and I want to say something from this step forward: I think that those of us who have the honour of being in the position of the ministers should not tidy up the projects of the former. The past decade has been a very difficult decade. Too many works are stuck. There were some promelettes at a very immature stage. We made the obvious. We ran these studies on the Paleokome - Mavroulouki part and we are about to auction it in 2021. This is, I think, a very great success. The part of Mavroulouki - Paleokome, for those who do not know as we know in the area, is a 20-and-a-half kilometers and is a piece that will actually link a piece of Drama to the Egnatia Road, so that Drama has access to Ennatia. The second part, the piece to Mavroulouki - Drama, is a thirteen kilometers and six hundred meters. As you quite rightly said, there is no studying maturity, so for the second part neither the speech nor the region can currently give you a budget. But what I know is that the region runs the budgetary procedures and the studies. We believe that this amount is around EUR 2.1 million. It will be covered by its RDP by the region. If we cannot, here we are, either EGNATIA S.A. or the Ministry, help us. Here you will allow me to make a quick parentheses. This government really believes in decentralisation and the spokesman as Minister in many cases considers that when a project can run it better than the Ministry, I have no problem with giving responsibility to the region. The Ministry of Infrastructure must do the projects of national importance, the major projects and, where necessary, it must cooperate with the region, so that is why we have reached agreement with the region and said that the project owner for the second part will be your region. We therefore want at least eighteen months for the region to mature the studies of Mavroulouli - Drama so that it can auction them after that time. However, we are doing more than twenty-nine to thirty miles. We have the next, the remaining piece of nearly fourteen kilometres. This piece is auctioned in 2021 and I want to believe that we will have the good development of joining the Recovery Fund. Let me say here, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, that road projects are not the priority of the Recovery Fund. We are fighting a great battle to incorporate some of these, of course bigger than Drama - Amphipolis. We are fighting for E65, for BOAK, to incorporate some remaining important road projects. Nevertheless, I would like to believe that because we have 'drive' the procedures quickly, the cost-benefit study will be ready in a very short time. To say here to those who hear us that this study is necessary in order to be able to obtain funds from Europe. We cannot obtain funds from Europe without a cost-benefit study, which means without saying to Europe, because we want this road, what the traffic burdens are, what the consequences of this road will be for local GDP in the region. All this must be done in a serious study to obtain funding from the European Union. So we're on the right track. The project is auctioned in 2021, which means entering a specific route with secured funding. It means that this work will become a reality, since it will be auctioned and it will be financed. I want to believe that in a very short time, this region, which has an incredible potential for development - we all know that in this Chamber we are dealing with - will be able to come out very quickly of the peculiar isolation that it has and become this roadblock, this roadblocking reality after almost two decades. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Minister. They shall not be discussed in consultation with a Member and a Minister: First, the fourth under number 498/1-32021 top-level question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, on the subject: "No payment of retirement allowances to former workers of the Hellenic Vehicle Industry (ELBO). Secondly, the third with number 488/1-32021 topical question from the first-round question by the MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of a N. Triglia dam". Thirdly, the first with number 485/26-2-2021 topical question from the SYRIZA MP Rodopi - the Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Supporting tobacco cultivation in Thrace due to the pandemic and low prices". Finally, the third question under number 493/1-32021 of a second question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Arcouda: a governmental blow to its protection of the abolition of action 4-4-1'. We continue with the fourth with number 495/1-32021 topical question from the SYRIZA MP for the second cycle - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Students at Sparta are being threatened with closure due to the minimum basis for the introduction of Law4777/2021". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos. Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I think we should express our support for the inhabitants of the whole of Thessaly and especially of Ellas, who are being tested at these hours by the earthquakes. Minister, L.4777/2021, recently voted, will cause multiple blows to the Greek public universities, as it has also been recognised by the entire university community, teachers, masters, students, as well as aggregation of opposition, as we have said, and that is why we voted against the law. The minimum import base, which has been established, is now determined that there must be a minimum score with a weight factor for admission to university departments and schools. Because of this, as you know very well, according to the most optimistic estimates, i.e. with the favourable 80% of the average, it appears that around 30% of candidates will not be introduced into university schools, especially in schools with the lowest import bases in the previous period. From what we learn, last week you set the minimum import base. So you know what the impact on universities and regional university departments and schools are. So we want you to let us know about this. Our concern is great, because in the two of the three university departments and schools operating in Sparta, the basis for introduction for the previous years has been very low. For example, the basis for introduction to the Department of Digital Systems was at six thousand seventy-five molecules and at the Sports Organisation and Management Department were six thousand twenty-five molecules. But also in Nursing, which is in Tripoli, the base was well below ten thousand molecules. Only one of the existing and operating sections in Sparta has an import base of nearly 12 thousand and is the newly established section of Physiotherapy. So I would now like you to tell us what the assessments you have about the impact of the Peloponnese University in particular and about the twenty-two sections that operate, but in particular about the university departments operating in Sparta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Arachovitis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for your question. You give me the opportunity to explain two things about the minimum import base. The problem of the minimum basis for introduction was not in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, 1990s for a very simple reason: there was no inferiority and positions available to candidates were multiples of their number. A characteristic example is 2000. In 2000 we had sixty-five thousand candidates for higher education. One hundred and sixty - five thousand people gave pan-Hellenic tests. Subgenicity then began to beat the country. So this year we estimate the candidates will be around 100 thousand. Watch out, in twenty years - in twenty - one years - from a hundred sixty-five thousand is about 100 thousand. What's that for? To the terrible hypogenicity. When you have about the same number of candidates as the same number or with a little lesser number of posts in the university, in fact the level of training falls. And because you asked me to say, in response to rhetoric, the minimum guarantee that is the basis for introduction to the HEIs, because, over the years, we ended up having candidates who at first, in the early 2000s, were going to university with grades below '10' - had caused shocks in Greek society - and today, last year, we had candidates who passed by giving white glue. Because when you pass by with a percentage of 0.6, it means you've given three white glues and wrote two lines in the fourth. What, then, is this overpopulation of students in relation to the candidates? It creates a problem in that they do not have the academic guarantee to study. This is an attempt to tackle the minimum import base. You know, a significant number, about 1/3 of those entering universities, not attending, leaving, leaving. What's that for? It may be due - you will tell me - to some exogenous factors, objective and so on. The reality is, however, that they are either not interested in the subject or have no opportunity to study because they do not have academic qualifications. This is about dealing with the minimum import base. Now, as far as the impact is concerned, I have repeatedly heard what you, and your party, have mentioned, in other words, in the debate we had in this House when the minimum import base was established. We can't know his consequences. We can make some predictions, however, which are only theoretical in relation to last year's scores, but that is far from reality, because we do not know how students will react when there is a minimum import base. So at this stage I am not in a position to tell you what consequences the minimum import base will have, nor can anyone say so. I shall refer in particular to the University of Peloponnese.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Minister. And now Mr Arahovitis has the floor for his denture in comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. What we understood, Minister, is that you are not committed. We will also hear you in dentistry, but what you have just told us is that the level of study within universities is about how to introduce it. No such thing arises from anywhere. You are a university and you know much better than I do that the level of study provided within the Greek universities has to do with the studies provided there, so with the academic community and not the school community, and I wonder why you're trying to identify these two things. If the problem is the degree, it can be done as well by the Gavroglou law, there can be green and red schools, where, in green schools, it can be registered directly after high school and whoever graduates through the process of studying at university, of course, graduates. To exclude people, students, candidate academic citizens only by the Pan-Hellenic process, I think that is beyond any logic. Let me tell you one more thing. We all talk without seeing the problem. The problem is that the way the Panhellenics are examined has closed their circle now. That's what we've all been saying for years, and that's what we're doing right now, how we're going to change the way we enter universities, not how we're going to do school, or how 30% of students who say they don't graduate to deny them the opportunity to enter university. No one tells us, Minister, that this one-third of students who do not receive a degree you said are 30% who will be excluded from the minimum import base. It's not related. So I don't think that's a good argument. But, returning specifically to the schools of Laconia and Sparta, Sparta is now in danger of staying with a school with the Physiotherapy School, which is the last school set up by the Gavroglou Law. With regard to the two other schools, the University of Peloponnese has the only University Department of Sports Organisation and Management throughout Greece and is at risk of being lost. Also, the Department of Digital Systems, which has recently become a university department, is housed in a large donor donor building in Sparta. It turns out that Sparta will eventually stay with a department, with the newly established Physiotherapy Department. The question here is that in Sparta the School of Statistics and Analogue Science has been established and there is, by law, the School of Statistics and Analogue Science, which has not worked. By law, your establishment has been suspended. What about the School of Statistics and Analogue Science? Is it going to be founded? Is it going to start? Is Sparta ever going to enter the computer or is Sparta going to lose all her university presence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Arachovitis. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to make a statement to this House. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 4 March 2021, for criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Migration and Asylum Mr. South Mitaraki. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry in comfort. Don't look at the watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much. Colleague, as I told you, let's start with the Peloponnese University in my dentistry. I haven't dealt with all the departments in Sparta. But I can tell you that I have already dealt with a great deal of Sports Agency and Management, which we are strengthening and trying to help even more with international programmes. We are already looking at how to strengthen it in relation to a programme that runs in Ancient Olympia, how to facilitate postgraduate programmes. There are some bureaucratic issues. This section runs a postgraduate program along with the International Olympic Academy in Ancient Olympia. We are looking to see how we can strengthen it and how we can do similar postgraduate courses in Sparta. In fact, I do not hide from you that in the discussions that have taken place, the thought is how we will be able to use two names for the Peloponnese known worldwide, the names "Sparta" and "Olympia", to use them internationally to draw populations. So I haven't seen, as I told you, the specific elements of the other sections over time, compared to the corresponding sections that exist in the rest of the area. I do not hide, however, that there is a serious problem for Sparta in the immediate future. As regards what I said, we must turn internationally, it is a wider problem, Mr President. So we have to look at pulling people from the outside. We don't have enough students. You have already wondered whether one third who never graduates from the universities is related to the low import base. These sections, which are "protagonists" to those who do not finish, are the parts with a low import base, i.e. parts to which one, two, three, have a graduation rate of 8%, 10%, 12%, 15%. It's directly related. On the contrary, if you look at the data in Medicine you will find that not only do you end almost all, but it also ends within the minimum time, within 'n'. They don't even go "n+2". You also said something else. Maybe I was misinterpreted. The level of study within the HEIs, of course, is only about the HEIs and not about the school community. So there's the problem with what you're proposing. When the student arrives at a very low level and enters the university, he cannot attend the high level of learning in this department and is therefore abandoning it. It's self-evident that thing. More broadly, the minimum import base seeks to ensure minimum academic requirements in a society which has an increasing number of students. We must now prepare for the next decade. What does it mean to prepare for the next decade? It means adapting our programmes and the sections that exist to something that is sustainable in the next decade and also looking at how we will make our programmes attractive for students from other countries so that we can ensure their sustainability. That is the objective, and that is what we will try to do in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Minister. We'll be interrupting for about five minutes, waiting for the arrival of the Minister of Tourism, who's on his way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The next two questions will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis. Is the second question under number 482/26-2-2021 of the First Cycle of SYRIZA's MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Catherine (Caterina) Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Reinstatement of self-government the proposal of the Minister of Tourism to set up an anonymous company entitled "Anonymous Society of Victimary Sources of Greece" and the sixth question under number 479/22-2-2021 of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera 25 Mr. These two questions will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, pursuant to the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Notopoulou has the first word for her protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are here today to discuss your announcement about the establishment of the Anonymous Company "Viatic Sources of Greece", for which a unanimous and convicted decision has already been taken by all the collective bodies of local government. The announcement of S.A.'s recommendation It's just another proof. It is another proof that your Government has neither plans for the development of tourism nor for the exploitation of the thermal sources The only project that the Government of New Democracy has, all it can and can do well, is to gather effectively and therefore ineffective responsibilities, but also to unravel out the property of the public, obviously not for the benefit of tourist development nor even of local economies and societies, but to create mechanisms of interest. You presented a few months ago to the Ministerial Council your intention to establish an organization for the use of thermal resources. This was then converted into a proposal to establish an S.H.E. So you're recommending an anonymous company. You are, in fact, practicing municipal property. The municipalities deliver you their property without any substantial compensation, in exchange and without any possibility of participation. It is truly worthy of wonder how you have come to formulate the draft law on such crucial responsibilities of local government without consulting the OTAs. The Association of Jamaic Sources of Greece - and I happen to be a member of local government - decided to reject all of the relevant articles and demand a new and zero debate. It mentions the fact that, following the establishment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the interests of local government are directly and very much affected, they disguise the expectations of local communities, and this is an anti-government intention. I will add anti-tourist intent. The unanimous decision of the CEDEFOP is also in the same direction. The relevant decisions of the ETS, the municipalities and the regions are unanimous. I'm tabling a ten in the Minutes then. Minister, the plan you have tabled is obvious that it does not serve any development planning. It serves exclusively the sale of medical sources and resources to individuals. You are not interested in exploiting the thermal sources, because what you are doing is undermining a tourist product that could be an important tool for tourist development, the country's national strategy for tourism policy. The targeting is obvious. A public limited company financed by resources of the Greek State, but operating under the rules of the private economy. So the Minister of Tourism will do what he wants without any control. Recruitment without ICPs, studies and projects, without any transparency, without public procedures. Minister, you're doing the businessman with the property of the municipalities. You also see to it that the environment is exploited from thermal resources within one kilometre of one kilometre, instead of trying to create local productive ecosystems, at the same time as in other provisions you yourself say that you are promoting the integrated destination management approach. In complete contradiction, then! I ask you: why do you insist on choosing to shield the institutional strengthening of local self-government and the financial support of the municipalities and communities to sell out municipal property? I invite you from this Step to withdraw all the provisions, to listen to the institutions of government and on a zero basis to plan with them if you really are interested in Greek tourism and not just to sell the public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Mr Arsenis, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since the Samara - Venizelou Government has failed to privatise the water, because this has fallen on the Council of State, I am talking about EEAS and EEAS, since the SYRIZA Government has failed to privatise the water, because this has fallen into the Council of State when it had sent it to the Supreme Court, now we see that through the PPP you privatise the PPP, and now the thermals, which are also water. It's not just water, it's health. It's a double public good. And you do it provocatively. You are making this company "Iatrical Sources of Greece S.A." It's really challenging and indicative. I want to remind you that the resource is not a financial resource for the thermal source. In Europe and in the developed countries - Germany, Italy, Austria, France and many more - they have recognised bathbathing in the National Health System as a primary care unit for these healing baths. This thermal resource, the good, contributes to both better health, weight reductions from the use of medicines in the public health system and local development. You're the ones who are leveling all this. You're building a real estate office. Real estate office! You deal with who's appointed, how much he gets not even this unsub. you're creating. And if we told you you'd have to make a company, it wouldn't have been an unsub. I'm not telling you, I'm going to tell you what we're asking for. You're building this company, which only aims to do business. You have no idea the object of health tourism, the health resource for the treatment that is currently being used by too many Greeks, in the condition that it is found. So we ask you to withdraw these provisions, but to explain to us what your own studies have been and show that building projects are the best option. What are you responding to local self-government which tells you that this proposal is unacceptable and how you respond to the direct objective of privatising public good water for which the Council of State has decided again and again that it is not to be privatised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u187	The Minister, Mr Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, if you would like to take note of the Conference of Presidents, at a next meeting the necessary changes will be made to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, because Mer25 and SYRIZA want to transpose the legislative procedure into the procedure for questions of parliamentary scrutiny. I do not even understand what the point of the debate is, since we will be able to discuss the bills when they are submitted to Parliament. You have no confidence in parliamentary procedures? Do you not want to discuss in committee and then in plenary any bills, as will be submitted? What is the subject of the debate? as regards parliamentary control? That's the first thing. So innovate here by discussing a question of a bill that has not been submitted and has not even been submitted in public consultation. So the whole subject of this debate "consult before making and bringing a bill with local government", we are already implementing it. That's what we're doing. We consult the CEDEFOP, consult the CEDEFOP on the basis of the thoughts of how our country will be able to exploit its public wealth for the sake of local society, such as this wealth of medical sources. So there is no object. We are following an anti-parliamentary procedure, which is without object. It is of course just to create some impressions. The only impression, of course, that I take from the debate is that SYRIZA has the same audience as Mera25. You are fighting for these same people, 3% in the Koufantina case and in the healing case, both on one and on the other, in all cases of public dialogue. I am not going to give you advice on how to go as a party, but I think you are going very quickly to 3%. I am coming to the point. Are we happy with our country's lack of health tourism? You said to be exploited but not privatized. Somewhere the exploitation has the partnership with private individuals, somewhere doesn't have it. Development is a broad concept and may in any case be the most suitable way to find investors and elsewhere to be able to do so in different ways, with the municipality's resources or anything else. Are we happy with the current state of non-existence of our country? That's what you actually say. You're his party not to change anything. Were the sources exploited on your day? Do we have source cases that just erupt the water and get into a river and do nothing else? Is that how local society wins? Do we have cases where they do not work because they were recognised three or five years ago - I have spoken with mayors - or several years ago, but has nothing progressed? Do we have cases where infrastructure was built, renovated in public money, and now they are devastated or seized? Do we have cases that have not yet been identified as resources? It's about one third of our country's sources. Our country at the moment, on the issue of tourism, which is one of the highest-growthed, is in nowhere. Two billions have been reported by Germany. In this sector of tourism, it has 6.5 billion dollars of revenue. Our country? Nowhere. There are thousands of installations throughout Europe, too, and in our country there are very few and very poor quality. So don't rush, don't rush. We'll be right here. There is a parliamentary procedure to discuss these and when the bill comes into public consultation and in a debate in the House, the CEDEFOP will also have the opportunity to take a position and discuss all the issues. But what is not possible - and it is not possible to happen by our Ministry of Tourism, by me - is to monitor the lack of strategy, the lack of development targeting, and to sit with crossed hands, as you have done for so many years when you have been ruling. We're putting a strategy on growth. We do it with the local society and with the municipalities, and you will see that when you see the bill of course. I repeat that there is currently no draft law, there is only a consultation procedure with the stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor for her own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u190	Minister, I have an additional question for you. Is the CED and the CEDEFOP SYRIZA? Did you or did you not give a draft law to the bodies, for which I have already submitted in the Minutes their sentences and their request to withdraw these provisions of law? Did you or did you not get press releases, where you responded to our press releases, as to how wrong this strategy is, Minister, for your choice to set up an anonymous company? I have heard criticism of SYRIZA again and through it, obviously, also an answer to local players. Look, Minister, it is our responsibility to ensure that, at least during the parliamentary procedure, you are required to listen to the local bodies. And I'm starting to doubt, listening to your position, how much you really believe in the draft law you're bringing and you've already shared. It is obvious that you are not interested in getting a picture. You insist on a proposal that prejudges an unsustainable model for the management of thermal sources, our natural resources and, on the other hand, a model that distorts healthy competition and, of course, leads to an absolute application of the property of local government. So let's go again. There's never been consultation. You spoke of an organization. You're talking about an anonymous company now. There's no enhanced OTA role. Participation by local government, with 20% of the original share capital, is just an alibi to protect municipal property. You insist that you do not even ensure that you increase the share capital of what is to be done and that you do not even give the possibility of voluntary participation in the municipalities. You have not predicted that all decisions will be taken by joint ministerial decisions of Minister of Tourism and Minister of Finance, not even with the agreement of the Minister of the Interior. You are even taking on the exploitation of a mile from the natural resource, and this is just as important and proof of your intentions. The loss of use and exploitation constitutes a existence of public property constitutes expropriation. And for the use of thermal sources - to come to the main theme, Minister - there is no need for an anonymous company. Let's finally be very serious. So answer us in the following way. The superstition manages twenty-nine natural resources. What competition has he had? The HIADED, which has been managing natural thermal resources for all these years over a decade, what is the use it has to make? It should be understood. I understand that it's difficult for you, perhaps even indifferent. We should, however, be careful that the municipalities in the last six years have made a great deal of effort, a great deal of effort, a lot of money has been spent to complete procedures to enable them to use the medical resources. For example, the Epirus Region has been running an INTERREG 4 million, the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace European programme, other municipalities have a master plan and other municipalities have been pushing you mainly for a year and a half, Minister, to open the REANEC, which the SYRIZA government had set up, to open financial programmes. EUR 25 million had been anticipated and you reluctantly refuse to do so, stubbornly refuse to give them the opportunity. So say, Minister, you don't want to. Because we have laid the foundations for the effective development of health tourism, a special tourism product, and we hoped that you might make use of it, build on it. We all want it, tourism is a national case. We have introduced modern operating standards in units, a procedure for granting a special operating mark, we have arranged for the distribution of thermal water, we have regulated the institutional framework for geothermal fields, we have enabled the Committee on the Protection of Vitaminal Resources, which was inactive by 2015 and, above all, Mr Minister, we have proceeded with the rapid recognition of thermal sources. We've just received from you eleven recognized. We identified fifty two thermal sources and nine special operating signals. You, Minister, have only recognised seven, which were already under way by our own government. Instead of seeking and insisting on privatising municipal public property, it is preferable to say and admit, Minister, that you cannot. Even now, then, we take your place - I hope and hope - as a promise that you will withdraw the draft laws that you have submitted to local government and start from zero the debate with local government if you are really insisting on strengthening and exploiting health tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u191	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, forget about it, but we don't forget. You spoke insultingly of a party elected from 3.5%, when you until yesterday were on the river of 3%. Forget about it, we don't forget. Also, you only answered SYRIZA because it's easy for you, it suits you. You're not really responding to the opposition. You've brought a bill, where it looks like a clear thing. In your mind tourism is a mediation act. That's what the bill you brought in says. Now, I want to understand what the concept of consultation is, when all the institutions tell you no, take it back and you insist. What is the concept of consultation? Which body supports your bill? This is a political issue, and that is what we are discussing here, and this timely question is right. We want to catch up with you. As regards the fact that you managed to get yourself into trouble with Mr. Koufantina with the healing, it is embarrassing, Minister, how much you are using communically the life and death of a prisoner, regardless of the crimes he has committed. You're asking if we're satisfied. I imagine you asked SYRIZA, but I'll answer you. No, I and Mera25 are not at all satisfied with the situation. There has been no recognition of bath therapy in the National Health System, as all countries do, which otherwise you want to look like them. All the countries have done it. So you don't understand what we want to do. You have no idea. You're going to do a real estate act. What? Vital tourism, selling spa in coastal areas? Is that what you understand? Now, with regard to the recognitions mentioned by SYRIZA, they are problematic too, and they also need correction, because they are generally copy-paste and they level the characteristics of each source. If you want to bring a framework for health tourism, we want to recognise the bathbath within the National Health System, such as the European countries, proper recognition of sources and to create a framework for the integrated development of these regions. Again, I'm telling you, medical sources mean health for the citizens, lower drug costs and local development. You level all this by doing a real estate act. This is your bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, thank you. It seems I'm saying it, but it's not that easy to understand. Maybe I don't explain them the way I have to explain them. The consultation process with operators, such as the CEDEFOP, is a process that is not public and we are discussing all the parameters of a legislative initiative and go out into public consultation. Until then, there is no bill. Mrs Notopoulou, you insist that I withdraw something that has not been raised. It is being put to the relevant bodies, such as the CEDEFOP and the CEDEFOP, by respect for these bodies, so that we can consult and reach a plan that will have an appropriate balance. Whether some of these bodies choose to betray a conciliation procedure and come out publicly, whatever their objections, is something they must respond to. They must respond if they respect the conciliation procedure, not us as a ministry. We, as Ministry, took the guidelines from the Ministerial Council, made them legislative proposals and entered a pre-consultation process. So this question you ask you to take her there, not us. There is no withdrawal - and I have explained to you before - a bill, because there is no bill in public consultation. When you understand that, then you will understand. That's why I told you it's the easiest question I've ever had to answer my life. What you're asking me to do is what we do. We agree, let's go down. Whether or not we agree on the substance of the bill there is Parliament's procedure, there is the committee when it is tabled. That's where we'll fight. You'll say you want everything in the state, we'll tell you that we want to have investors who invest in the wealth of our country. We will tell you about the problems that exist, that there is no strategy, neither at regional nor at national level. We will tell you that there is great wealth that can be exploited. It's not privatization of water. Don't make fun of yourself, Mr. Arseny. Don't try to confuse things like that. The water's not privatized. We will also tell you that there is no municipal property, because the thermal resource is a public resource, it belongs to the state. We'll tell you that we don't really change, we don't deal with the property regime, we don't get the property of the municipalities. We'll have time to talk about it. Let's agree we're not happy. Let's agree something needs to be changed. Let us agree that the Ministry is right to do and consult with the CEDEFOP and the PPP before bringing the bill and let us disagree with the substance of the bill. You want the lack of investment and we want our country to have investments. The gain from the medical sources is not the rent one will get to make investments. The gain for local society is the revitalization of activity in local society. It is that these people who are going to baths will come out and eat, stay in some hotels side by side, make trips, make bikes or other activities. This is the gain from society and this gain we are determined to bring it to local society as soon as possible. So we will be here to discuss all this when we have a bill to testify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-05-S1-commons.u196	With the consent of the House at 15.15 p.m. the sitting on Monday 8 March 2021 is closed at 11 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
