ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before moving on to the supplementary agenda for legislative work, let me first make the following announcements: First of all, I have the honour of announcing to the House the current Questions Release of Friday 24 September 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1061/16-9-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The mandatoryity of the Collective Conventions helps to strengthen the collective claim of workers for better working conditions, preventing their negotiating power from weakening." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1057/13-9-2021 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on "Direct resolution on the movement of students in the firefighting areas". 3. The Question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "To hold general assemblies of unions by living". 4. Under number 1070/20-9-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "From Eye to Evia. The refusal to implement the proposals of the Gondamer finding on the restructuring of forest fire-fighting is criminalised." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1067/17-9-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Pappas, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The N.D. "frozen" the great works in Thessalonica and today it reopenes them. Large delays and high costs for taxpayers." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1074/20-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Evaluation of the airport "N. Kazantzakis’ for the benefit of local society’. 3. Under number 1071/20-9-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Requirement of the voluntary movement of fire extinguisher and misuse of the voluntary fire extinguisher volunteers of the Fire Corps". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 7382-17-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Fthiotis - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Strengthening Photida through the non-implementation of a series of routes on its rail network - characteristic of the examples of the remnant operation in Bralos, Molos, Stylidas". Secondly, I have the honour to announce to the House the following: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. The Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Citizen Protection, Justice, Home Affairs, State as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Health and Home Affairs submitted a draft law on 22 September 2021: "Prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect, "Cypli" programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, nursery and childcare stations, provisions to promote assumption and adoption, "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons" and other provisions. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Debates and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 1. ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the field of Scientific and Technological Research’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the ELIXIR Consortium for the establishment of the European Biodiversity Research Infrastructure (ELIXIR)’. The drafts were passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and were put to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of the conventions may take the floor for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes, provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote of both conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. Does a colleague want to speak on the procedure? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u3	Will the debate be a single one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u4	Yes, the debate will be single. One might want something to say about what I read and in that sense I asked. But first of all, let us say it orally, that those under Article 108 will take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u5	For five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u6	For five minutes. Those who disagree may speak both of the rapporteur or of the special speaker and of the parliamentary representative for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u7	Five minutes for each one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u8	Five minutes for each one obviously once one is discussed. The Rules of Procedure say that for each case there is the five-minute time, since we agreed that both of us would be discussed uniformly. So everyone can use the tenth, that is, five minutes for each contract. At the same time I am explaining and saying that those who, in any case, have no objection and agree, can speak accordingly for five minutes for each contract. In this case, a parliamentary representative or the rapporteur or the special speaker speaks. I would point out that in the case of disagreement, the rapporteur, the special speaker and the parliamentary representative can also speak. In that sense, I said whether there is a procedural question. And indeed there was, it was very correct to clarify Mr Villard's question. So I would like to say what the positions of the parties were. For the first convention concerning Morocco, but also for the second one on ELIXIR, the parties' positions were: The New Democracy was in favour, SYRIZA in favour, the Change Movement in favour. The JRC was against both contracts. The Greek Solution was reserved for Morocco and was against ELIXIR. Merra25 was reserved for both contracts. After that, the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Yiannis Delis, has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to explain our negative vote on both conventions, firstly by saying that ELIXIR is the Pan-European Research Infrastructure, which supports the preservation, analysis and management of the huge volume of data produced internationally more and more from biosciences. This is an infrastructure distributed, which links databases, computing tools, bioinformatics materials and computer storage capacity. Greece has been an observer since 2014, while the application for full membership of the ELIXIR Agency was submitted in 2019 by the Government of SYRIZA. This convention for the inclusion of the ELIXIR programme and the creation of national implementation hubs is part of what is called a European data management strategy, which, of course, aims to establish a single data market, along with the efforts of the Member States of the ELIXIR Agency to create these so-called common data centres. This ensures that large-scale data, so-called big data, can move freely within the European Union and in all areas, so that they are certainly constantly offering new investment fields to business groups, even with additional financial support from the budgets of the States participating in such programmes, such as ELIXIR. We want once again to put ourselves as a JRC for the so-called digital transformation, because we are, in fact, talking about modern, productive science. This is never a question and it was, of course, never a neutral naval procedure, since the crucial issue is always who is permeating the means of production and hence production itself, and as we know, today and in our country, but also in the whole world, this role is played by the business groups. Therefore, behind the modern wrapping of digital transformation, the main one, which is no more than the exploitation of new technologies, is to be applied more effectively and more effectively, if you want, by the urban state, the strategy and policy, which benefits capital and, of course, for that reason - because it benefits capital - is also a burden on the people. Let's look at this at the ELIXIR. Does this particular organisation of bioinformatics data show the great potential for further science development? Does it not show the great potential for the wide unobstructed dissemination of scientific knowledge through the new technological potential that is growing, for the necessary international cooperation of research teams in a work that is constantly socialised? Of course he does. Only this cannot be done in the capitalist system, since research and innovation are intended to serve the profits of business groups and not the needs of the people. That's exactly what we saw with the coronary vaccine, isn't it? Did we not see, in time, the triumph of science against a dangerous virus on the one hand, and on the other hand we did not see the unrelenting competition from pharmaceutical colossals and the major capitalist countries, which even added the vaccine to their wild geostrategic competitions? Of course we did. Besides, let's all take a look at Africa's vaccination coverage that's still well below 10%, and we'll all know what it's all about. The fact that ELIXIR serves the designs of the pharmaceutical industries is not what we call it, says ELIXIR itself at its electronic hub. The title ‘Promoting innovation and industrial use of information’ refers to characteristics. I read: 'The handling and analysis of the huge amounts of data now produced in life science often requires more resources - indeed! - from health and biotechnology companies. A solution for this is the close cooperation of private individuals with public services, such as ELIXIR. Thus, ELIXIR is developing an industrial project that promotes these cooperations - that is what ELIXIR itself says on its website - not only within Europe, but throughout the world." The infrastructure created by ELIXIR will make life science data across Europe more accessible and will provide easier ways of analysing and obtaining new information from these data and these new ideas will stimulate innovation - you think - in biotechnology and the pharmaceutical industry. ELIXIR says that. This also means, of course, that the current convention, when it says that the benefits of this Convention, are the greatest efficiency in the market and in international competition. We have no doubt about that. Not at all. The question is exactly what will be the benefits for the people, but also for the thousands of research workers. Neither the modern health services will cease to be an expensive commodity for everyone's rights, nor will the research workers see better working relationships and conditions with flexible work and intensification to be the norm, nor will these infrastructures of research institutions be improved only as well as when they serve the pursuits of the groups and not, of course, the people's needs. Thus, companies on the one hand will be able to fish commercially, exploitable research results more easily, of course, private clinics and national health systems will more effectively determine the allocation of funds on the basis of the well-known cost-benefit logic, while research of research centres will be more organically linked to the aims of the pharmaceutical industry and, therefore, research will be further removed from the real needs of society, that is, the people. They call it the terms of the contract themselves. ‘The implementation centres shall undertake to develop specific working modules for which modules will be assessed on the basis of their objectives and deliverables.’ So what is being raised as freedom, supposedly, in the selection of issues of research activity, is nothing but an adaptation to the new economic requirements of digital transformation. And here we want to say it again: as a JRC, we have never been, we are not, and we are not going to be, against the utilization of new production capacities - if possible! - the achievements of science, the development of science itself as a generalised productive force in society. Of course, we believe that the potential for large-scale bioinformatic analysis and international cooperation can make a significant contribution to the development of new, innovative therapeutic approaches. They may also contribute to the organisation, supply and processing of data by the scientific community. We certainly consider it necessary and support the Greek research community in the use of such cutting-edge technologies in Bioinformatics, Computer Biology, through the provision of appropriate infrastructure, tools and databases. As life itself shows, however, every day all these tools are the property of monopolistic, business groups. The more they join the European Union's choices of profitability and competitiveness, the more they move through European programmes that support this strategy, the more its research and its results will be removed from the real coverage of people's needs. We also have a question to the Minister. The contract stipulates that the contracts and remuneration of the employees of the national hubs of ELIXIR shall be determined on the basis of the EMBL Staff Regulations of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory. Could you tell us more about these staff regulations? The same applies to our country's convention with Morocco in the field of scientific and technological research. Nor do the peoples of the two countries have anything to benefit from it, nor do the workers, of course, in the field of research. The prospective winners are also the business groups of both countries. It admits this and the explanatory statement accompanying this convention goes on to say, attributes that it, like all the bilateral programmes of joint research, technological development and innovation, aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the two countries. That's what he says! It says that it is basically about the research and academic community - as far as it goes - but also about businesses or that they have the right to finance research organisations, universities and research centres and private businesses. On the basis of all the above - as you can see - we can only vote against both conventions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u10	And we thank Mr. Delis. And he has the floor, after he has been sanitized by the Step, the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, starting with the agreement with Morocco, we have made a reservation to the committee in anticipation of the Secretary-General's replies, which were not ultimately given to us. In particular, we asked to analyse Greece's benefits from the agreement at the level of research and industry. We note here that Morocco does not simply manufacture cars, also electrically, but is the fifth exporter of cars to the European Union, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. The reason is that they have been transferred there and mainly produce French companies, as is the case with Turkey. While, on the one hand, it has a high percentage of domestic added value, it also carries out some investigations. Unfortunately Greece is one of the few countries in the European Union that does not have any kind of car industry. So perhaps the Moroccan experience would help if the government had some realistic plans that we did not hear. On the other hand, we have said that we understand the agreement to promote our relations with Morocco from a geopolitical point of view, given that it has some differences with Turkey resulting from its access to Libya, as well as trade, which we have analysed. It would therefore make sense to cooperate on the issue of EEZ and control of immigration, but without knowing whether the government is seeking it. We continued to stress that we should be careful, because Morocco is exporting terrorists. It is also a key point for the trafficking of illegal immigrants and narcotics in Europe. It's one of Europe's main drug suppliers. As far as our trade cooperation with Morocco is concerned, it could be supported by this agreement, with the countries of Africa, for which Morocco is a hub, as well as by a critical region of North Africa and the Arab world. Further to the preamble to the Agreement, its purpose is to improve the economic and living standards through scientific research and technology. Of course, we do not see this happening in Greece, since most of the money, such as the benefits of the pandemic and investment, is directed at the monoculture of tourism. Article 2 now includes the preparation of joint scientific and technological research programmes totalling EUR 1 000 000 for three to four research projects up to 25 000. We asked what exactly they would spend without getting an answer. In Article 5 we asked whether it has been investigated which is Morocco's legal framework for the protection of intellectual property, so that we could see whether Greece is sufficiently protected by any leaks. We have asked for a model of the protection framework to be provided so that the stakeholders know it. In Article 7 and in paragraph 3, we said that the third parties responsible for implementing the programmes in each country and the money they receive are not specified. In Article 10 we stated that we disagree with the regularity of such contracts in the sense that we prefer the possibility of resolving them through the courts, especially as regards intellectual property. Finally, in the second part, we said that we did not agree that the implementing programmes drawn up by the Joint Committee are adopted by joint decision of the relevant ministers and not by means of procedures through the parliamentary process. For the reasons we have analysed, we cannot vote in favour of the convention, and one further reason is that we no longer trust the government at all. As far as the ELIXIR Consortium is concerned, in the European Biodiversity Data Infrastructure, the main reason why we voted against it was the process being followed, since we believe that something so important should be analysed in greater depth. On the other hand, we are obviously in favour of evolution and science, but that does not mean that critical thinking is not allowed or that personal data are not protected, human freedoms are undermined and that medical confidentiality is abolished. After all, science is by its nature a controversial and thoughtful research process, based on critical thinking, while almost every next great development proves that the previous one was wrong or even inadequate, as is illustrated by Einstein’s Newton theory. We said then that ELIXIR is taking part in an equal number of national knots twenty countries, both from the European Union and outside, while Austria, Cyprus - only as an observer - are not participating in the European Union, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Malta, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia. However, we consider it particularly important that Austria does not take part, since it is top of the field of medicine. We continued by saying that it is unfortunate to create this initiative, if anything, because of the many ambiguities in terms of its feasibility and function. We stressed that it should be considered as a whole and that, in order to substantiate our reservations, we mentioned a number of facts that demonstrate both the importance of biodata and the dangers of using them which, of course, have no reason to repeat here again. We have also clarified that in the United States there is special legislation so that insurance companies do not discriminate against the characteristics of people's DNA and the possibility of them being sick. We also asked what would happen if the data were not safe and leaked into insurance and if there was a similar legislation in the European Union and in Greece without getting an answer here. We further stated that our reservations with regard to ELIXIR and today's contract are due to our concern about the safety of these personal data so that they are not exploited by states, by the powerful multinationals or by anyone else, how much more so when it comes to health data. In this regard, we all know the case of Facebook, which is completely abusive and illegal - in essence - from 2010 to 2017 sold thousands of personal data in ignorance of course of users to colossal companies such as 'MICROSOT', 'AMAZON', 'NETFLIX', etc. We have said that there is also a risk of leaking sensitive information about biodata in third countries, with which Greece is in constant confrontation through the operation of company hubs referred to in Article 8. However, since the legal framework of the agreement is not sufficiently protected to prevent such leaks. Finally, we said that the preamble is a summation of vague objectives for the need for cooperation through ELIXIR, but without specifying the need for the institution to establish and operate, with references so vague and incomprehensible, which have increased our reservations, and so is many articles in the agreement. We concluded by requesting the withdrawal of the agreement so that it can be discussed in full detail on its basic content and on an article in a normal committee. Let us not only answer that this is how we have all signed it, as has happened many times, because we certainly do not consider it to be a serious argument. It doesn't mean that what others give us, we'll sign it without looking into it. If that were the case, there was no need to submit any contract in the House. We have asked for a more general review of the attitude of the Greek state, on the issues of Biogenic and Bioethics, given that this Convention was signed in 2018, while since then we have had more experience of pandemic and technological developments have been rapid. As for the profits of the pharmaceuticals mentioned by my colleague, it is sufficient to say that the German company 'BIONTECH' has only won EUR 2.6 billion in the second quarter of 2021, that is, only for a quarter, in a turnover of just over EUR 5 billion, i.e. a net profit of more than 50%, despite the fact that it was financed with about 350 million by German taxpayers for the invention of the known mRNA vaccine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Members of his Party tabled a legislative proposal on 23-9-2021: "For the working conditions of workers in the distribution of ready-to-eat food and drink". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. On behalf of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u14	You deserve him. I'm just doing the middle man!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u15	Be well, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you would all notice that I am not a special speaker of Mera25, I am his parliamentary representative. Nothing has happened to Mr. Loyadis, and I'm here. I am here because Mera25 thinks it is much more important than the sanctions for the two conventions that Parliament is discussing today - which, incidentally, Mr President, we are voting'residents' for good reasons that Mr Loyades analysed in the committees last few days - a fact that happened yesterday in Athens, but we consider it to be annoying the entire territory of Greece. Of course, it could no longer be this fact that I am referring to by the grandest of my life - and I am quite old, fifty-six years old anymore - gatherings and marchings in the middle of our city by a class of people who are the last of the working class, the proletariat of the proletariat, by a class of people, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, who have been experiencing working middle ages since the first day the cause of their work was established. From the first day, Mr President, when these digital colossians have been set up, we will always tell them here at Mera25 - eFOOD and WOLT - the exploitation of these people is unprecedented and touches the levels of exploitation of previous centuries on the territory of the European continent. That was to say, about the smoke cleaners, the children who went up and dying to cleanse the smokers of the riches in London at the beginning of the last century or even before, at the end of the previous century, to speak accurately. So in such circumstances all these people live. These people, Mr President, have given me the honour yesterday to leave me with my machine, because it was a course - because of the fact that they are distributors and have their ducks and scooters - to go with them, to pass all the way from Mars to our House and from our House to New Heraklion, which happens to be the offices of the company, where of course their bosses refused to accept them, and where, of course, the Minister for Civilian Protection has just assumed their duties, sent the Attica chief to close two cubs on Heraklion Avenue to ban them from reaching the offices of their company, in order to express their protest, while they had every legal right, as their course was legal and pre-explained. Let's talk about all this. But above all, I would like to thank them for giving me the honour of letting me participate with my bike in their course and not being lynched - I do not accidentally use this verb - because they deserve to be - and I am political - more than sceptical about a political system, Mr President, which has reserved them to this day. They have been reserved for a New Democracy and a Mr. Hatzidakis, who has arranged for it, legalised all the working middle ages that have been found since they entered their work, and a SYRIZA, who - I am sorry to say it - is hypocritically, now denounces Mr. Hatzidakis and who, when WOLT, is the first to teach in this middle of the blocks - about the blocks I am talking about, which is supposedly dealing with the middle-age partners of our proletariat, as partners in the 'WOLT', works only with blocks of business, which SYRIZA ran, nicely started the blocks - and all the workers, as is well known to be working on 'WOLT', only with business blocks, only with work-based mid-sts-sts-switched and did nothing for the most disgust-s. He had ministries, government, he could have prevented it. Now let me stand on the most essential. What people bring food to me as well as to you. These people are all ages. These people aren't hobbyists, they're not motorists. They don't make a hobby, they don't fill their income, they only live from this poor income. These people we have seen all of us circle around themselves in the snow, when he couldn't move a cat or a mouse outside his chamber and his nest. These people came out to feed us. These people, even though they are working under these conditions, still do not have strong and unhealthy meanings today, Mr President. I have, because I'm an actor, and I'm right, the actors have it, because they're doing a very heavy job. They work from -20 degrees to +40 degrees in wrong clothes, they work under exhaustive conditions, they do ten hours of spin and one hour to go and come, they deserve it! However, the distributors of delivery are entitled to them a thousand times more than everyone else, or at least the same, Mr President, with all the very heavy workers in our country, those working in shipyards, those working in lignite mines, those working on heavy work. Heavy and unhealthy, then, is their request, but their main request and self-evidentness are contracts of indefinite duration for all. Let their companies at last treat them - what, parasitic, oligarchal, capitalist companies - as normal workers and let them give indefinite contracts for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, this company 'e-FOD' has announced 24 million this year in profits more than last year. However, he refuses to make contracts. And not only does it refuse to make contracts for indefinite duration to those who are recruited, but it tells those who are badly recruited - because it observed that its competition, 'WOLT', treats its employees even more inhumanly - that it was wrong and that, if they want to keep working - at a time when I recall that we have a million unemployed people again, we are about to get to them - they will compromise and sign without any debate and no negotiation that they are now going through the block, they are partners. It is not a partner who takes 3,84 euros an hour with someone who increases his profits by 25 million euros a year, and it is a shameful national in here that we do not do anything about it. We have to. So, of course, heavy and unhealthy contracts, not renewals per month or quarter of their contracts, which leads them to schizophrenia and despair, as well as to the maintenance of the achievements of all these companies, namely, the purchase of helmets, machine, the bucket that keeps our food warm or cold, clothing, and the maintenance costs of the machine - which are at least EUR 100 per month - and of course fuel costs, which are too much because they make huge distances. But above all, to abolish now forever the reproach called 'blue'. Why? It is a question of moral order, Mr President. They're murdered by the block. I analyzed it a few months ago here when Mr Hatzidakis spent his "wonderful" legislation. I said at that time, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: 'Have you noticed that distributors who bring our food are going red, going backwards to the streets, riding sidewalks? What is it? You schizophrenic? Have they decided to kill themselves massively? Have they been exposed to Havana's virus? What happens to distributors?’ Something very simple happened. Most of them had already been back in blocks, and with the block they get paid with the track. And when you force them to pay with the track, after they starve with the wages you give them, you finally force them to kill themselves by driving illegally. So this always starts and ends with the company, the parasitic oligarchal company, with the blessings and the boulder of our legislative arrangements. I had spoken last time on the occasion of the death of one of these children. Today I say to you that we have the opportunity to stand together, regardless of political, party and ideological differences, and to tell these gentlemen, who earn 25 million more a year than the previous year and 50 next year, that they have no right to murder our children, whether these children are indeed our children, twenty years that are most, whether they are like me, because there are people who have needs and are sixty and have a duck and do this job. Finally, I would like to convey the most important to the Delegation, to our House, but above all to the people who always care more - I am sorry - from you here, who hear us out there, the few of them, 6%, I do not know what the House is spectacularly having. I hope that when Mera25 talks a little, because it's the only one, perhaps the Communist Party, which says and no truth in here. The most important thing I want to convey to these people and to you, those who are not analdant and those who can hear the pain of the adversary, those who remember the concept of "locality" within you, the notion of "humanism" and "humanism", the ideals that have excited our continent, I would like to say that what I saw yesterday was a pandemic support reaction. You know that. You know it from the online support these people immediately received, regardless of the party position they were ordering. No one actually orders from this company anymore. Everyone orders from its competitor. And the trade union leader said something about it yesterday. He said: 'This company, colleagues,' speaking to them, 'it does not exist, it does not exist. It's an Internet address, like billions of others. Her condition and her existence are only us, the people we give her breath, her workers." This has been understood by the Greek people, Mr President, for days now. And you know what he's doing? Boycotts, as brilliantly he has a moral obligation to do, this company. He warned the trade union leader: “We will disappear you in a few weeks. There will be another glimpse of your capitalist competitor, who will find the opportunity to "false" with apologies for the expression, Mr President, "in the strand of the system you left with your little ruthlessness, blackmail us by phone with a SMS. It will be found.’ And I assure you, that I went with them with my bike yesterday, all this distance, the whole Lefkanope, that I've never seen such a thing in my life. The people were horning at them, because we were thousands of machines, and the streets closed and they waited for 40 minutes on the lamps stationed. And what did they do? They weren't swearing, they weren't unpleasant, they were pulling their fists, Mr. President. Do you know why they were pulling their fists? Because they have been dismantled by these working relationships. Because they know what the proletariat of our country's proletariat exists. They applauded us - not me, because I don't even deserve it - they applauded them, they took their fists out, and they all said together that this won't pass. I would like to warn the dear government, my dear Parliamentary Representative, - you know that my feelings personally for you are very warm - that my sense is that you continue not to moan and do very badly. What I've lived through, Mr. Parliamentary, Mr. Boukorore, dear New Democracy, is a precursor to the fall of your government. I don't call it petty-minded. I'm not saying that to bother you. I'm telling you, if you hear about it, something you can do, not your government, which I'd be happy to fall for, but for our country. People, broken up, horned together in the endless river. When we arrived at where the MATs of the new authority of the Ministry of Citizens' Protection prevented us from going, another fifty meters that were the company, while we were peaceful, the people, the people who were on Heraklion Avenue, went out and took the MATs for tampering, forbidden, passers, citizens, those who had cafeterias left and right. Something is happening that you still haven't noticed. The Greek people have renounced their authoritarianism, with their poverty and the fact that you systematically make a tragedy of a national that is now unfolding two years on an occasion for parasitic oligarchs, whether they are called clinical rulers or called airline owners such as Mr Vassilis, whether they are called the owners and sellers of wind turbines like Mr. Kopelouzos whether they are called schoolgirls or called collectives. It is no longer possible, Mr Buquoir, to have this attitude in society. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President, and I really am telling you, we can be optimistic. The overthrow of this inhuman government that supports the parasitic oligarchy is close to us. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. We are going to go to a second cycle, as we say, because everyone who objects or reservations has spoken. I'd say we start in the order of the parties vice versa. One of the two of the Change Movement will take the floor. Will it be you, Mr. Catarini?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u18	Good. Because we have said or the rapporteur will speak or the parliamentary representative. Mr. Katrini has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the two agreements that we are currently in force, the rapporteur has already been placed. We're positive. We are in favour of transnational cooperation, in favour of cooperation that promotes research and technology. Despite any reservations and objections made to the committee, we feel that the sign is undoubtedly positive. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two references to issues relating to the topical and urgent subjects, at least one relating to the responsibility of the Ministry of Development. Firstly, I would also like to join my voice with all my fellow Members in the face of yesterday's very strong picture of the distributors of a particular company who have protested about their inalienable right to a decent job. Of course, a picture that emerged after the catastrophic reaction of civil society last Friday, which, I think, was why the decision was suspended or, anyway, an interpretation was given of the unsatisfactory communication of a previous decision by this company, but an indication of the working jungle prevailing in the country, which relates to the political system as a whole and over a period of time, but if it has deteriorated rapidly over the days of the New Democracy Government. It is a bet on the political system as a whole how to ensure decent working conditions, which we see as being month-to-month, year-on-year, week-on-week is getting worse, without the citizens, without the workers feeling that someone is listening to them, someone understands them, someone is intervening, and above all, someone is protecting them. I think that no one in this Chamber will argue that we should all unite forces, even from a different ideological starting point, even with a different targeting, so that we can protect all those workers who see their future quite bleak and cannot go anywhere, so that they can ensure decent work and living. This is the first and I agree that it was very possible not only yesterday's gathering, but the notion of the reaction of workers who are vulnerable and dependent directly and found the courage, together with civil society, to protest against the self-evident rights in which we, obviously, support them, have a dignity and stability in working conditions. That is why we have also proposed an increase in the minimum wage to EUR 751 and a guarantee of working conditions and through collective agreements. That's the first. We are going to the second, which I consider to be equally important. Yesterday was the day of Greek trade, a Greek trade which has suffered too many cracks and many problems in recent years, due to the crisis in the past twenty months due to pandemic and economic consequences. We were afraid of them at the end of July when we approved the Agreement on the "Greece 2.0" programme in this Chamber. We had, of course, voted 'the present' at the time. We had not voted in favour of this proposal. We have had reservations regarding the direction of resources and who really will benefit from them and who will have access to loans, liquidity, resources, fat resources. It is a total of about 31 billion, of which 12.7 billion are the recovery funds, which have been so advertised. We really agree that this may be the last chance to build the economic and productive reconstruction of our country. We expressed our disagreement and as a reservation that these go to the very big players, to the very large businesses and, in practice, to the small and small businesses, which, however small ones do not want to see in this Chamber, represent 97% of Greek entrepreneurship. And the statements on the day of the e-commerce of the Minister of Development confirm that the government has planned the allocation of loans of 12.7 billion of the resources of the Recovery Fund so that only the largest companies can access there. So in order for a small business to have access to this money it should be merged, purchased by a larger company. So this is a clear message, it's an honest statement from the government. It says: "I until first said that the banking system does not provide liquidity to businesses...". In fact, Mr Stavros said yesterday - and he did so - that he would ask for a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs to call on the bankers, to discuss them all, because they do not provide liquidity to the businesses, and because 95% of the Greek businesses find that there is a close link between the banks when he asks to borrow, whether in TEPIX II or in the Guarantee Fund or in the last 400 million Development Bank programme, where only 30 million have been disbursed - or 10% have not been disbursed - because there is no demand or need but because the criteria are very strict. So while the government has been telling us to date that the criteria of the banks are strict, and that is why companies are excluded, it comes to admit that it has designed the criteria for the allocation of the resources of the Recovery Fund, so that only large companies can have access to them, by sending a clear signal that you are either buying or buying - you are merged or very simply getting into a lock-up. Why's he getting into a locker? I was just reading the data from Kathimerini, which speaks of tax obligations over 7 billion in the next four months, about debt obligations that are unleashing from Generus 2022 over 30 billion and checks of 5 to 6 billion. So there will be a accumulation in the next debt range over 40 billion. And be careful, in July 2021, we had fresh dues, mainly businesses, over 3 billion euros, despite the fact that there were still suspensions in force and despite the fact that the economy had returned and that tourism was going well. And there were these two-track statements in this Chamber too by some members of the government. This therefore reflects the difficult reality of Greek entrepreneurship in the country today. So, in this difficult reality, with private debt more than 250 billion, with the out-of-court decision starting four months without having a single debt arrangement - and it is unknown when we will have arrangements, how many these arrangements will be, and whether they are favourable to businesses - in this whole climate, the political decision clearly leads the government to lead 97% of the country's entrepreneurship, very small and medium-sized enterprises, outside bank lending until now. In fact, the Government has also set up a Responsibility Observatory for a year that has not produced any results at all. And that is a sad finding. It's the raw reality. On the other hand, it directs the loans from the Recovery Fund - a large part of the resources that will flow into the country - through banks with the same strict banking criteria that exclude 95% of companies. In fact, it says that it is doing so by giving tax incentives only for acquisitions and mergers of businesses. Indeed, with such a large amount of private debt and so much business - over 50% - to have non-performing loans, to have dues on tax and insurance funds, what companies will buy them and merge on what terms? Also, what is the next day for these professionals, entrepreneurs and retailers who were able to stand up in the ten years of the crisis and the twenty months of the pandemic can survive so that they are in Greek entrepreneurship right now? The government has so far taken no substantial measures to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, beyond some proper measures such as the repayable advance that we said from the outset is the only measure to reach the real economy and has arrived. However, we have not heard a new package of returnees from the Prime Minister and the future is predicted to be ruthless when the debts will be too many, the suspensions will end, the cigarettes will be reduced, the bankrupt will be in force. At the same time, the biggest problem facing access to liquidity is not solved, firstly, because the government does not perform its role in the banking system, and secondly, because the Government itself plans to allocate the resources of the Recovery Fund to the large and very large companies which are a very small part of Greek entrepreneurship. This cannot be a strategy for the Greek entrepreneurship of the next day. It is another thing that we have closters and mergers in terms of parity and other violent acquisitions in terms of survival, as the government drives, either by its inertia or by its choices, the very small and small enterprises affected by the ten-year crisis. So this cannot be the future of small and medium-sized Greek entrepreneurship. Another strategy is needed. We as a Change Movement have proposed a great deal both for private debt management, for the issues of pandemic and for the liquidity of the banking system and how the government can intervene in it. Unfortunately, none of this has become a reality to date and I fear that it is not the government's intention to support small and very small enterprises. I think the next period will prove this. Here we will be and we will all be judged by our choices and attitudes. I would, however, appeal, since it is the Ministry responsible here today, to reconsider his attitude to small businesses, because the many paddocks will create many social and economic problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance the floor will be given by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance Mr Stavros Arachovitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of sanctions Mr Sarakiotis referred to the committee in detail. I think it has been analysed and our attitude is positive to these kinds of sanctions which are coming to contribute to any issues of improvement and further consultation with the countries and initiatives being developed. However, I shall refer to two issues. One has to do with the health and the pandemic that has been going on for a year and a half - we are almost two years old - is agitating the whole planet. Yesterday I think it was clearly a day of justice for the positions and attitudes that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance has taken over. I am obviously referring to the agreement signed by the European Union, which our country signs together, on the production and supply of monoclonal antibodies. When the President of SYRIZA spoke in a strong way last May - a Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister had a reaction that was purely demeaning and arrives on yesterday's day to sign with the European Union, with seventeen other countries if I am not mistaken, a monoclonal antibody procurement contract. I think this is clearly a right. Look, however, the concern in Greek society is great and is intensified by the opening up of schools where the first samples show that the dispersion in children is very great. Dispersal through children in the rest of society back to families and social surroundings where children and their families co-operate create a very large dispersion. We have been telling you this for too long, too: Take measures in schools. Instead of what are you doing? You voted and continue to keep the sections with twenty - seven students, when the instructions last year and this year of EACH speak of departments less than twenty - seven, breaking the sections. On the other hand, there is the Ministry's directive on the abolition of small parts. Throughout the country we see the removal of the few sections and driving and driving into larger sections that go to twenty-seven children, with the result of crowding, confusing and greater dispersion. And as if that were not enough, this year's directive is that, to close a department, it should get 50%+1 of the students. Imagine the route that has taken place. According to experts and according to yesterday's communication, when it has proven to be 50%+1, the dispersal has reached 80% of the children in the department. When will you know this is happening? When the cases arrive where? When the spread in the family has reached what levels? Look, it's not SYRIZA's second vindication. We are not happy when we see that our positions are vindicated. Sadly, no one can feel satisfaction when what was seen and predicted occurs in the next period. The second important thing, of course, on yesterday's day - and it is also about the Ministry, Mr Colleague - is that it has to do with elasticisation, the unscrupulous flexibility, the industrial relations that we have seen this company apply to the fullest extent to its employees, without feeling any fear that it can stop. With the Hatzidakis Act - and we must say that - with this famous article 69, what opened the door was that Article 69 abolished any valves that had the circular Brutsis based on previous legislation. It wasn't a circular that wasn't in law. That's exactly what he did. There is the essence of things. There the company stepped in, liberated the industrial relations, humiliated them to the full and, fortunately, with the reaction of society, with the healthy reaction of society, the company was forced to get it back. But next week, as Alexis Tsipras announced, we will have an amendment, we will bring an amendment here to Parliament's plenary on the protection of labour and on the sealing of cracks in legislation. Here we are all, ladies and gentlemen, to see. Everyone will be judged when they have to. Workers yesterday shouted: "We are workers and not partners." That's the reality. And you know well that when the distribution workers work under extreme conditions either hot or cold or rain, the possibility of accidents is increasing. With the elasticisation of labour relations and the liberalisation of the form of dependent labour, it is not only the pressure of time that is pushing them to - and I agree, Mr President - more distributions to be able to come out of partitioning, it is not just that in the days of extreme conditions the movement is obviously reduced and the partition will not come out otherwise, it is the other one. It is that these flexible working relationships, i.e. being self-employed, do not provide adequate medical treatment. It is also within the areas that we need to see and seal legislation where necessary. Another issue that concerns the previous one is that this company has increased profits. Is this company that presents a very nice economic profile a company that is selective to the banks for lending, while the small and small businesses that are currently weighing up find the door closed to the banks? This, in fact, applies and cynical is the assumption of the Minister, Mr Georgiades, that these businesses that do not present this profile, the very small and the small, should be closed or merged. Yeah, but let's go see why this is happening. Because when purchasing power is falling, i.e. the minimum wage, the elasticisation of labour relations leads to the impoverishment of society as a whole. Their purchasing power is crumbling. So very small and small enterprises are not able to recycle the money. The increase in minimum wages and stable labour relations encourages small, micro-enterprises to be able to get better on their feet. In other words, every euro falling into the lower layers of the economy turns back to very small and small enterprises, in reality, in the middle-class, what you are supposed to be publishing, but ultimately it is what you are breaking up. And I conclude with a question put by my dear colleague, Mr Sarakiotis, on the committees very strongly. The agreements with Northern Macedonia when will you bring them? It's very important and you know it well. Look only, legislate only and move only in the light of your internal-party balances. However, see what's going on in our neighborhood. See what is going on with Turkey's provocativeness. Turkey with Northern Macedonia you see that it is trying to develop relations, Turkey, which is currently in the south and southeast of Crete, is in breach of even the 6 nautical miles, Turkey, which is currently using fishermen in the Aegean as a means of pressure and you are not responding. You do not react, and there is the Fisheries Code which provides for illegal fishing within our territorial waters. There is a European fisheries directive and there is also the law on the illegal entry of foreign citizens into the country. Why don't you use any of this legislation? Why do you look at provocativeness in the Aegean and south of Crete without reacting? That is why I once again tell you that the exercise of foreign policy is multidimensional. It's not one-dimensional. The agreements with Northern Macedonia are part of such a logic. That is why we call on you to proceed as soon as possible with bringing these agreements to ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. And we are ending with the intervention of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Boukokouros. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Those who think they can hamper the delivers' fight are deeply obsessed. It's part of the working class new, working hard, but the way they made their demands known to Greek society and mobilized is the great proof that they don't need any protector and no mentor. After all, in the era of the internet and social media, the employees of each sector have shown that they can directly make the Greek society a part of their problems. Those who think they will join the fair fight of these children are vain. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that from 15 to 2019, the only political leader, who met with the workers in the distribution companies, the delivers workers were Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at that famous meeting at the tavern in Moschato. And what did they say there? Then, of course, it had not changed so much the way of work for the workers, they had not been found, they had not developed so much the platforms we are discussing. They had asked for a reduction in taxes on low incomes and a reduction in VAT on the focus to 13%, so that the food business could insure more employees and remunerate them better. These two main demands are along with the equipment, which is now being implemented differently, because, as I said before, it changed the hard working environment of these people, which remains just as demanding and cruel, there is no doubt about that. However, the two issues of reducing tax contributions, reducing VAT on the focus to 13% and reducing the first-stage tax on incomes of up to EUR 10,000, which are the incomes of these young people mainly working in this sector, have been fully implemented by our Government. Furthermore, the solidarity levy that for us here may seem to be a trivial amount, but for a dealer who takes 10,000, 11 000, 12 000 euros a year is a 600 euros salary. So how do you say we don't care? In other words, the reduction of insurance contributions, the reduction of the primary tax, the abolition of the solidarity levy, in total, is some money that can be EUR 1,500 and EUR 2 000 per year for such workers. Where, then, do you blame us indifference? Do not attempt to recruit workers who are rightly complaining, because a company that saw a rapid rise thought it might become a dominant world, but you never become a dominant world without the world. And this is in knowledge and harmony, why were the results of this movement and the reaction of the workers? We live in another world, modern, digital, developments run fast and become known immediately. The first result was the reduction of the company's turnover by 40%. The second result was that a competitor went out to the market and offered five hundred full-time contracts with the commitment that these jobs would be made very soon. And this company will raise its turnover, because society is a very tough judge and the rest of the companies will necessarily copy it. However, in the general context, ladies and gentlemen, we firmly believe that the increase in the demand for jobs will come only through growth. And in the third quarter of 2021, as you see the evidence, the country records an unprecedented growth of 13.7%. We've estimated a 5.9% this year, we haven't reviewed it, but all rating agencies are bringing the growth of 2021 to more than 8%. We'll see if he's confirmed. We will know this after the preliminary draft budget has been tabled in the House, but if that is the case, then as a government we do have this surplus of development to share it fairly throughout society and, above all, to such working classes. And in the midst of a pandemic, we have proved this that we are taking measures for small businesses, for low-paid workers, because the measures I have mentioned before you - fiscal and insurance - concern mainly them. Do you know that this year's tax return of 53% of Greeks pays zero tax and 17%, that is, 70% of Greek taxpayers, whether they receive a tax or not they pay a tax? Where do you think they belong? 70% that he doesn't pay a tax or 30% that he's paying a tax? 70 percent, of course! Impressions can be very easily created, but trying to smoke or exploit the workers' impressive mobilisation is not such a moral policy. When did you remember them? Now that they've gone out with ducks on the streets? Now you remembered the deliars? I told you that Mitsotakis on 15 April, without an election, went and heard their problems at the tavern in Moschato. What other political leader did he go to? Tell me who! Nobody!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u24	We legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u25	For the banking system, I consider Mr Katrin to be very important. Of course the banking system needs to be changed. It cannot have been recapitulated four times with Greek taxpayers' money over a decade and whistle indifferently! It is therefore right that the Minister for Finance, Mr Stagioras, asked for the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the House immediately after the draft budget for the parties to come here. It did not ask for a simple sitting, ladies and gentlemen. He asked for the parties to come. And when the Minister asks for it so long before the Committee on Economic Affairs meets, he also gives a major role, if you like, in this meeting, in order for the representatives of the Greek Banking Association and the banking system in general to come. The Minister for Finance is asking for proposals to be submitted on how to strengthen liquidity across the whole range of the real economy. It's not that we're not listening. We are appalled every day and we are a government which acts quickly with the initiatives of the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers. I think this meeting will be very critical, because I am indeed one of those who believe that the banking system in the country does not fulfil its role. He doesn't serve his full role. Its role is to provide liquidity. The criteria, you know, are subjective. It is important who sets the criteria, as is Timing, but also the possibilities that exist. However, it is of greater importance that a loan, Mr Colleague, may have increased chances of being repaid. Otherwise, we don't do anything else. We will do what we have done in the past, namely recapitalisations with the Greek taxpayers' money. We certainly do not want that. However, we do not want this inelastic system, which is currently in place, which is unfair to businesses that are able to obtain liquidity and repay their debts, because this shows their past even the difficult period of the economic crisis. For the Greek-Turkish ones I heard from the Qualified Opposition, I would like to tell you not to play with these issues. Cheap impression based on some articles or even some facts, if you like, says nothing. The particular government of two challenges faced the most serious, namely the hybrid attack on Evros - and I think we have earned praise from the whole of the European Union, but above all from the Greek people for our reaction there - and Turkey's aggressive initiative in the south-eastern Mediterranean, where our country's armed forces, in particular our glorious Navy, have fully met and left the neighbours with the tail on the sides. Just the way you hear it! However, if we are not just in a spirit of controversy, I will focus on the positive news of the day, which we have known from information published last three days, but was fully confirmed at the special meeting of the Presidents today by the Dean of the Aristotle Mr. Papaioannou. I mean that youth shows us the way and our active students at 77% have already been vaccinated and are about to return to normality and from 1 October to life by studying and learning. Ladies and gentlemen, 77% of our students in Greek universities were vaccinated. In fact, this 77% came in a very short, very short time just two, three months that were opened by the platforms for their ages. Youth really points the way to all of us. The vaccination of students, without pressure, without fanatics, without drumcrossing, at such rates, actually shows that the youth we are grinning about, the "young of smartphones, tablets, the internet and not real life", shows that it is the protagonist of real life, shows that it is taking the lead and can lead our society to better paths in the coming years. From the Step of the House I would like to congratulate all our students and one - one of them separately for this choice on the road to freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Bukowo, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u28	No, Mr. Gregoryde. You will allow me not to give you the floor. I was fair to everyone, and I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u29	Let me just tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u30	No, I won't give the floor. I do not give the floor because I have allowed them all to raise other issues as Members of Parliament. We must not start confrontation. I can't do it, I want you to understand it, because it will be requested by others after the speech. Minister, you have the floor to conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing in the national Parliament, in plenary, the ratification of two important international conventions, firstly the accession of Greece to the ELIXIR research infrastructure and, secondly, the transnational agreement with Morocco on research and technology. As you know, the procedure stipulates that the rapporteurs of the parties who object to the committees are given the floor in plenary. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs and I am very pleased that, apart from New Democracy, these two conventions are voting for both SYRIZA and the Change Movement. From there on, however, I would like to stand by the opposition. Some comments were heard starting from the Communist Party of Greece. I think we all agree that in recent years research and innovation has been erected at the top of the world agenda, because of the coronary pandemic, and if there is one reason why we are here today in Parliament and the economy has opened up and we are slowly going back to normality, it is because the global scientific community has worked together and managed to discover safe, effective vaccines in a very short time. And yes, I would like to stress that the exchange of data, access to scientific data has played a decisive role so that companies, private companies most of all, can discover these safe, effective vaccines, which the majority of Members and society have already carried out. So when we talk about business groups that are favoured by ELIXIR, we have to think that business groups are not favoured as much as all citizens are from the exchange of these scientific data and it is very important to know that the exchange of this data leads to important scientific findings that save thousands, not to say millions, lives around the world including Africa, which I have heard before. So those who are today voting against the accession of Greece to the infrastructure of ELIXIR's research project know that you are turning against eight research centres in the country and their scientists and eight university institutions in the country, which also use ELIXIR. I note this because those who claim that you do believe in scientific research have no excuse for not voting today on Greece's accession to this infrastructure. But now we're going to the next party, the Greek solution. I have listened with great interest to the rapporteur for the Greek Solution, both in committee and here. I would like to say that you have also asked the committee, and I made it clear to you on the issues of the Joint Committees and on how the transnational agreements between the two countries are being concluded. I have now heard you say that Morocco is exporting cars, and that we do not have a car industry in our country. You spoke very well of the electric drive in cars. We do not have a developed car industry in the country, but I am sure that, because you are dealing with these issues, you will have noticed the very important investment of e.go in our country with electric cars. I think that such transnational agreements only add in that direction. You then referred to the IOZ, migration and drugs. Mr Colleague, we are talking about an transnational agreement in the field of research and technology, and that is where it stops the matter. So we have to talk about the deal. You have referred to the stakeholders. Entities will then be interested. We cannot predetermin which bodies from both countries will be involved in these research programmes. But you also referred to the money. Over here, I catch you impassable. Because I know that you are studying the last line, I think you can look very easily at the report made by the General Accounting Office of the State, which mentions a million euros for three or four research programmes of EUR 250,000 over two to three years. So here we have all the answers. I understand that for political reasons you just want to disagree. You are not voting in favour of a transnational agreement which can only do good on both sides. As far as ELIXIR is concerned, you have used the justification that Austria does not participate in ELIXIR. I will say to you as an anti-business that the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union are participating in ELIXIR and we are indeed fruiting the results of this important infrastructure. In conclusion, I see Merra25 has no representative in Parliament, despite the fact that the rapporteur of Merra25 recognised some important issues of both agreements. However, I have heard absolutely nothing about these two conventions. I think it is important to highlight the fact that in two major international conventions in the middle of the coronary pandemic, Mera25 did not even touch the issue, it did not talk about the issue, which I consider to be empirically unacceptable and unparliamentary. Again I call on the opposition parties - because this debate is supposed to be taking place today in the opposition parties who have disagreed or expressed reservations with the committee - for the last time you have rethinked your position. I think we should be voting in favour of these two agreements and I repeat that they are two agreements which help to develop science and research in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Development and Investment and their vote will be taken separately. We move on first to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Following the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the field of Scientific and Technological Research". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u34	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u35	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Following the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the field of Scientific and Technological Research’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, we now vote on a single motion for a resolution at the outset, on the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Following the ELIXIR Consortium for the establishment of the European Research Infrastructure for Biodiversity (ELIXIR)'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u38	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u39	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Following the ELIXIR Consortium Agreement establishing the European Biological Data Infrastructure in the field of bioscience (ELIXIR)’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u41	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-23-S1-commons.u42	With the consent of the House at no time of 11.45' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, 24 September 2021 at 9.00, on the subject of the House's work: a) Parliamentary control, topical questions; and b) legislative work: 1) only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of National Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic) in relation to the establishment, administration and functioning of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-American Defence and Anti-American Defence (IAMD COE Operial MOU)’, and 2) of the National Defence Office of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic, as well as well as well as the National Defence Department of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Defence Department of the Republic of the Republic, as well as well as well as well as the National Defence and the National Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Cyprus Republic, and the Republic of the Republic, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Cyprus Republic of the Republic of Cyprus Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, and the Republic, with the Republic, and the Republic, with the Republic, and the Republic, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, and the Republic, with the Republic, and the Republic, with the Republic, with the Republic, with the Republic, with the Republic, and the Republic, with the Republic, and the Republic, and the Republic, and the Republic, and the Republic, and
