ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-9-2021, the minutes of the PPZ meeting held on Wednesday, 8 September 2021, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] (a) ‘Preparation of the Amendment Protocol to the Agreement on the Bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Program between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania, signed in Athens on 20 December 2001.’ (b) 'Preparation of the Agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union'. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, let me tell the House on Monday, 13 September, 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1012/30-8-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The NSH will collapse if the government puts instant staff on holiday - immediate suspension of application of the V. 4820/2021.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No. 1017/6-9-2021, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The society of Boeotia requires clear answers about what is to come with the Ministry of Health. Thebes.’ 3. The Question No 1019/6-9-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The measures necessary to support universal support for the survival of musicians in Crete". 4. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on "Suspension of work by the vaccinated trade unionist K. catechia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1 H under number 1016/3-9-2021, a topical question by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Support for cotton". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1018/6-9-2021 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government must ensure the preservation of labour law and prevent collective redundancies in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry". 3. The Question No 1020/6-9-2021 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Deposition of Corinthian (Black) raisins". 4. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourikos, Member of Parliament, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In a tragic situation the Lavrio Health Centre". 5. Under No 1023/6-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'To remove the discrimination of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Mirasia refugees'. 6. The Question No 1021/6-9-2021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "To compensate all those affected for 100% of the damage suffered by the earthquake of 3 March 2021 in the Larisa and Trikalon Prefectures". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 1025/6-9-2021 by SYRIZA's Deputy Chios - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Sufficient shortages and absence of a special plan for island hospitals". 8. Under No 1024-66-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance on the subject: "To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Miraiat refugees". 9. Question No 1026/6-9-2021 by Mr Theodoras Jakris, Member of Parliament, on the subject of: "Manufacture of the Almopea dam (Kales)". 10. The Question No 1028/6-9-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questions on the North Axis of Crete". 11. The question raised by Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Here and now permanentize the four thousand OAED workers as well as all contractors and assistants of all specialties in the ESS - Armour of the ESS before being late". 12. The Question No 1029/6-9-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, entitled "Participation of OLAF SA. Kavala 1965 in the Super League 2 championship.’ 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 1030/6-9-2021, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Taking back on the increase in electricity and increasing the transparency of tariffs." 14. Observed. The question by number 1031/6-9-2021 of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Protection and support for households and especially vulnerable persons, following the wave of appreciation of basic consumer goods'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 7208/11-6-2021 asked by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government must publish the mortality rates in all the intensive treatment units of the country." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 8108/19-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Continued degradation and dismissal of Drama Hospital in medical and nursing staff - Government unwillingness for effective support - Award of cleanliness to contractors - Merger plans and abolition of hospital units and clinics". 3. The question by number 7067/4-2021 asked by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Maris) Mr Mamoulakis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questions about funding and the cost of tolls of the BOAK". The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall also inform the House in writing of the following: "We hereby inform you about the debate on the current questions in the context of the parliamentary control on Friday 10 September 2021 that Question No 1614/1-9-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. O Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis". The second topical question of the first cycle under number 1014/1-9-2021 of the Deputy of Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Without representation, the University of Serres at the Administration of International University of Greece (DIPAE) will be discussed. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a big issue that has to do with an exclusion from the new institution of higher education that you serve, the International University of Greece. Here the question arises in central Macedonia, the Serres Prefecture from the beginning of the new composition of the board of directors has been excluded from representation, and as a result it feels devastated, marginalized and cannot function, have an orderly function, a boldness as far as the University of Serres is concerned, the campus of Serres, as is typically called in regional unity. In the new fifteen-member board of directors there is no representative with the effect of essential operational needs, but also problems that the International University - the annex of Serres - cannot externalize them. We are talking about a former TEI and an annex to Serres with a long history and educational action. And as you serve and represent tertiary education you know that if you feel excluded a university department creates the thousands of millions of problems. We are talking about an International University now that has been established with too many weaknesses, to tell the truth, but the oxymoil is that the two adjacent laws, namely Thessaloniki and Kavala, are represented. The Kavala Prefecture, in fact administratively, belongs - and you know - to eastern Macedonia and Thrace. On the contrary, he's represented. The Serres, with fifteen thousand nine hundred and twenty-four students, with eighty-six permanent, alternate and subsidiary teachers, with seven sections that can be mentioned, with fifty administrative staff, with twenty-six special advisers, technicians and managers, with about fifty other officials and over fifteen thousand ninety-four undergraduate students and with five other five-sixteen undergraduate students, you can see that this prefecture, which is the birthplace of your party's founder and you are ideologically intercepting, Konstantinos Karamanlis from the establishment of your party in 1974, feels neglected. He feels like he's out of line, and it can't work. Now, according to the information we have, there had to be at least three representatives within the new management board with regard to the components that make it up to them to operate on the basis of students, schools and teachers. However, there is this sadness, this despair, this complaint, but also the malfunction of the branch that they see shine and cannot externalize the problems. And here you ask: why, while we have tabled a year ago - I have had it before me - a Greek solution to the question to the Minister of Education Mrs. Niki Kerameos, and specifically on 14 September under protocol number 9528, we have not received a reply? Excuse me very much, Minister, but this is not how parliamentaryism works. It therefore calls for the democratic state and the proper functioning of our parliamentary system to have an answer. So tell me, as the Minister responsible for higher education with a great deal of university experience in both foreign universities and especially in England, if there is a balanced approach, iso-state of equilibrium should be needed for the operation of the "DIPAE" with regard to the campus of Serres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u4	And we thank Mr. Booba. The Minister, Mr. Syrigos, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, my dear fellow Member, Mr Bouba, and thank you very much for your question. You will allow me to refer to the history of the International University of Greece. It is created in the late 2000s and its aim is to draw students from the wider region, the wider geographical area of our country, hence the term International University, through foreign-language programs, which are addressed to either Greek or foreign students and to help Thessaloniki acquire a place in the European university stage. For several years it worked with postgraduate English-language programs, until 2019, the government decided under the umbrella of the International University to stick to a series of former TEI departments, which have evolved overnight in PI, with a decision of the Parliament. So we have a university that extends to seven cities, Thessaloniki, Katerini, Serres, Kilkis, Kavala, Drama. Even at the Dumotich is an annex of the International University of Greece. In Dumotich, three hundred miles away from the headquarters of the “DIPAE”. According to the ways in which this whole strange university was founded in the sense of the vast area, it was then decided that it should be administered by an administrative committee with the responsibility of the consecration. The Management Committee will be in force until 31-8-2022. The elected Quaestors of six different schools are also involved in this management committee, which is at the International University. It is an economy and administration based in Thessaloniki, Social Sciences and Health Sciences - two different schools - again based in Thessaloniki, Positive Sciences based in Kavala, Geographical Sciences based in Drama and Engineers based in Serres. In this case, therefore, he participates a dean from the School of Engineering, based in Serres. You'll tell me, where does this particular dean live? The answer is that it comes from a school, from a department, which is in Thessaloniki. It's a fact, but the Engineering School is based in Serres. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In my dentistry, I'm going to explain a little bit more about this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u6	If you want, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u7	The point is that of the six schools we have at the International University, in fact in just one, at the Faculty of Positive Sciences, based in Kavala, the dean really lives in Kavala. In the board of directors, there is a person who participates and is from Serres and lives in Serres, but the fact is that he is serving in a school in a department of Kavala. These are the results of these designs that took place in 2019 at the foot and will last until we proceed to a normal election of new members of the Republican Council, as defined in the Act, which will begin its operation after 31 August 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Boobas has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u9	I, Minister, agree that this scheme, where on one night the technological educational establishments became an International University, while our country had to give some importance to technological education, became a leg. However, we are talking about the productive path of the Serres, where innovative schools could operate with future prospects, such as tourism, such as bubalotymia, such as fishing in the lake of Kerkin, that is to say, the pact, such as a school of cheese-growing, such as other schools and geothermality, which is a very basic school and, unfortunately, the geothermality we have not developed. This is a debate that can be held, because Serres could play a leading role in such schools with future prospects and orbit. You know very well that at a university without satellites, the core doesn't work. That's the law of physics. Now, if we were to fill satellites in a 300-kilometre radius, that's definitely a malfunction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u10	Three hundred fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, that's what I said, 30 miles. I'm sure there's a malfunction. That's a fact. However, the fact that the Serres waited for the elections that had to be held yesterday to work on the practicable and fundamental to ensure that the board of directors was fruitful and constructive is not done. Simple, functional, daily needs cannot serve, such as taking care of the green, having a canteen that does not exist, having a feeding. In other words, you realize that there are daily problems and students feel frustrated and neglected in a campus of Serres, that is to say in an annex, which has a School of Administration, Faculty of Economics and Accountancy, School of Construction, School of Engineering - Engineering, School of Informatics and topography, School of Informatics, Faculty of Internal Architecture. We are talking about schools, which are key schools to give professional perspective and orbit to students. The Prefecture of Serres, which is currently the largest geographical prefecture in central Macedonia, which is geographically occupied throughout central Macedonia, from Kerdylia to Kilkis, which is the second population in central Macedonia, is essentially excluded from this instrument and there is no such balanced operation, there is no proper functioning. Whether 2019, with the previous government, we went through a change in higher education this is a story that should concern you. Let me just say this, this is an organogram on the substance of the matter. This representation must be restored for all sixteen thousand students, regardless of whether the seat, as you said, is in Thessaloniki. They are not governed by the Serres. The chairman of the board of directors is a professor of law, i.e. your colleague. Here, a quarter should have been represented by the Serres Prefecture. That is, three members of the board of directors had to be Seraeus. So you understand the complaint of a prefecture that raised the leader and founder of your Party, Constantine Karamanlis, but which once again is excluded. This university and it assists and contributes to the local economy and schools with educational tradition has also a prospective orbit, such as the seven sections I mentioned to you. Perhaps, in future, you have to have a debate to develop the primary sector, which we as a party as a Greek Solution give a great deal of weight, so that they don't feel excluded. In any case, Minister, until elections are held, something must be done. There must be a placement of a Serraio there, to mutate, exterior, say and communicate the problems of operating the Annex to the International University that is the city of Serres and the Prefecture of Serres. Look at it, because there's a big complaint from the Serres. There is a sadness from the educational community, from universities, students, people coming from other cities, as well as from the local economy and local authorities. Look at this, a little bit sensitive to a Serres Prefecture that needs to be better dealt with in Greece against this issue, because the particular department of the University and the former TEI has shown a great deal of action, both at the graduation schools and at some extra activities that it has done with seminars, with some workshops, with the school businessman in collaboration with the local chamber I studied, with some other external cultural and cultural activities. It is a shame, honestly, that there is a great deal of complaint - not to be represented. It is about its viability and its future course towards a prefecture that needs to be better addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Boomba, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bouba, as I have told you, we are dealing with a temporary situation which will end in less than a year because we will have elections. In the elections the Serres departments have the opportunity to elect people who, perhaps, are closer to them than the present ones. But, as I have said, there is already a member within the Management Committee who is from Serres. He teaches in Kavala, but lives in Serres. So there's a representative of Serres. Unfortunately, the School of Engineering, based in Serres, is represented. You'll tell me, of course, that she doesn't live in Serres, she lives in Thessaloniki. That's a fact. The reality, however, is that there is typically a representative of the Serres. I've read the local press. You referred to the issue of greenery and the issue of cages. You have rightly raised the issue of cylindricals, but this is a broader issue relating to the crisis that we spent the last year and a half due to the coronary. The possibilities, that is, to keep cans open when there are no students were for a long period of zeros. From October onwards, since October 1st, when the winter semester starts by living, we will see how it will be possible for all of this to function properly. The other problems have been pointed out at the beginning of the university, which, as far as I see it, are concerned. Mr. Kaisisis is a professor of law, he is the man who has been the soul of the International University for so many years when he really intended to internationalize. It's a man who's hurting the subject and watching it closely. In this context, then, I see a number of contracts here, both for heating and for the cleanliness and for maintaining the green space, which was commissioned on 17 July 2020 by a particular company to monitor them. We also have the technical service of the International Monetary Fund, which is re-opening the project. We also have a security service. We also have a supply of consumables. In other words, the moves that have been made all this time do not show any indifference from the board of directors. But I do take this opportunity and ask for the President's permission...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u14	You have unlimited time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. It gives us the margin that most colleagues are missing at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and so we have a little more time. You will allow me to mention a few things about Serres to keep them in mind. I am very pleased to note that most of the Serres' sections have gone very well at this stage and have met with the suffering of the least basic import base which, however, is prerequisite for you to have serious university education. There were problems, for example, with the Department of Municipalization and Geographical Informatics. It is a problem that we are seeing throughout Greece and it is an issue that we need to see as a whole. So topographer engineers generally don't go well, not only in Serres. This is a matter that we need to see. From that point on, we had some problems from what I see at the Department of Organisation and Business Administration. In general, however, the department of the university in Serres has responded well. I would expect the Management Committee to come with proposals to see what we can do on the next day with the entire IMF and with the Serres in particular, which is a strong, strong core that can be maintained the next day. The solution is not just growth. The solution is to switch sections and merging sections if changes in objects are needed in some cases. All this is on the table, and all this must be kept in mind in the proposals. The head of the Ministry of Education has asked the Republican authorities and the administrative committees to submit their proposals by 30 September. We expect to see the proposals in order to see what the country's university map will be in the next few months. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister, for this was an important matter and has raised many issues to which you have given the appropriate answers in order to inform the Greek people, and that is why we thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, after consultation, the question asked by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs will not be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. You accept here that we shall resolve the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-10-S1-commons.u17	With the agreement of the House at 9.33 p.m., the sitting on Monday, September 13, 2021, at 15.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) An anniversary report by the President of the meeting on the National Remembrance of Greek Asia Minor genocide by the Turkish state and a follow-up to a minute of silence and b) a debate on topical questions.
