ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I would like to make two announcements to this House: The Minister of State, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister to the Prime Minister submitted a draft law on 5-2-2021: "National Authority for Accessibility, National Commission for Human Rights and National Committee for Bioethics and Technology". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Introduction to tertiary education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘The number 355/28-1-2021, 360/29-1-2021 and 374/1-2-2021 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Question No 353/26-1-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Frangoyannis. Question No 367/1-2-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey. Question No 2913/23-12-2020 (under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Evangelos (Evangelos) Syrigo. Questions Nos 366/1-2-2021 and 373/1-2-2021 and the Question No 2989/30-12-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou, under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Question No 371/1-2-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr Zoe Rapti. Questions Nos 357/28-1-2021 and 369/1-2-2021 topical questions and the number 2854/420/21-12-2020 and 2999/429/32-2020 questions of the circle of petitions and questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras. Question No 365/1-2-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Migration and Asylum, Sophia Vultesis. The question referred for a preliminary ruling under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos, will not be answered because of lack of competence.' We are starting the debate with the fourth with number 371/1-2-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Transparency at the General Hospital of Corfu'. The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Zoe Rapti, will answer. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm very happy that the State Secretary is legal, as am I. We're fighters. My topical question has a topical but serious democratic issue, I would say. In short, within the two minutes available, I would like to remind you, Madam Secretary, that I have submitted a document, a letter, a letter, which I am sure you have in your hands, to the commander of the Hospital of Corfu, asking him for some information, which I could not obtain from the "DIAGIA" or elsewhere, so that after the first wave of pandemic I can have a full picture of how the general hospital works and how the administration is doing its duties in this regard, in this case too. This was on 1 July 2020. On 5 October 2020, after several months, I exercise parliamentary control and ask the Bureau of Parliament to initiate the procedure to give me these documents. The procedure is in progress, and this letter is addressed with obviously a transmission document from the Bureau to the Minister and the Minister for Health, and I am sure it is my document to the administration of the hospital. I haven't received an answer. On 23 November 2020, I wrote to the President of the Hellenic Parliament, assuming that this is a very serious matter and has to do with the role played by the Member in the Greek Parliament of Greek democracy and not in the person of the natural person, but in the institution of the Member. There was an absolute contempt on the part of the administration of the hospital both me as a Member, but above all the Bureau of Parliament, through which I exercise parliamentary control and, of course, the head of the hospital, who is the Minister of Health. The result is that so far I have not received an answer even though it says: 'Mr. of the Law of Corfu, we do not answer you because we do not like your nature'. So these movements that are absolutely institutional have not found an answer. This, in my view, is a question of the democratic functioning of our Parliament. In any case, what are the limits a Greek Member of Parliament can exercise parliamentary control and what are the limits and discretion and discretion of the commander and the administration of the hospital to answer or not to answer such a serious issue concerning public health and the functioning of the Hospital of Corfu? Thank you, Madam Secretary and Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, indeed the public services must act in full openness and in so far as, of course, this is possible to provide the members of the Greek Parliament, as you are, with the public documents which will enable them to carry out their parliamentary duties. This is something beyond question. However, in this case, I do not think there is any more specific issue of administration's reluctance - and I will tell you why - to provide you with the requested information. The institutions and, of course, the hospital managers honor the Members of the Greek Parliament and cooperate with them. There have been cooperation between other Members of your region and your region, such as Mr. Gikas or Mr. Biagis, who is in the Chamber. The commander has also met with elected representatives of local government. I think, therefore, that the reference to arrogant behaviour may not be a behaviour which obviously had some kind of intention toward you. In particular, with regard to what you say in your specific question, I know that the administration is available to cooperate with you and the documents you request are here. They'll be testified to you. In particular, they concern the Special Infections Department, which was set up at the Hospital of Corfu, already at the beginning of the pandemic, since the procedure for the creation of this department was initiated immediately, precisely to carry out and deal with all the incidents of COVID -19. I have presented - and they will be delivered to you - the decision of the board of directors to decide on this establishment of the department, also the decision of the board of directors to adopt the regulation of the section on the operation following a recommendation from the director of the nursing service, and the decision of the hospital commander to place these two of the scientific staff in charge of the department. Finally, you will also be given the permission of the person responsible for processing personal data to place video surveillance in this infection section. With regard to the placement of officials to administrative services, in particular in 2020, eighteen ASs were placed, of which three were used to address the emergency needs of the pandemic. In particular, they were placed in the vaccination centre, in the normalization of the file and in the Department of Human Resources. I will submit for the minutes the relevant information document of the Department of Human Resources. In relation to the inhibition of the hospital's neurological clinic, we are particularly concerned about this. This temporary suspension was decided because there was only one subsidiary and there was no other interest in the healthcare district for other subsidiary in order to be recruited. This decision was taken by the hospital following a recommendation from the 6th Health Region. In fact, the 6th Health Region approved the suspension of the operation of this clinic. Of course, what I will testify to you is that very soon it will become a permanent intake of a neurologer at the Hospital of Corfu by a decision that will be published for such a post. We hope very soon that the relevant clinic will be reopened. As regards the services for DPO, the award to the contractor of the provision of the services of the personal data protection officer was made following a competitive procedure. Indeed, at a very good price they took this DPO - and I call it a'service reward' - at EUR 10,600 a year. That is why I will also present to you the decision of the administrative board of the hospital, which decided to carry out this competitive procedure, the notice and, of course, the decision of the board of directors approving the outcome of the award of this tender. Finally, I should also like to say on the issue of the placement of temporary heads. I will present to you the Director's decision, which gives rise to the new positions. They also took into account the recommendations made by the hospital services directors, the optimal functioning of the departments and, of course, the experience of a particular supervisor. That's how the superintendents were placed. Finally, in relation to the operation of the call centre in the hospital, there is, of course, not only that decision you are referring to. But you didn't have the evidence. So you only referred to that. You must, of course, be given the decision of the administrative board of the hospital to prepare the relevant technical study, the decision of the board of directors to carry out the tender, the declaration and, of course, the decision to award this tender. In conclusion, I would like to say that - and you and you know it - we must always take into account that, in the midst of the pandemic, there is a great difficulty in managing all requests and incidents. And Corfu General Hospital is in the front line to deal with the pandemic. He has hospitalized more than a hundred COVID cases -19. So I would ask you, like all our colleagues, to support with good faith the efforts of the hospital administration. The documents are here at your disposal and I will give them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. I would ask you to keep the time, as we have 15 time-consuming questions. Then they need the Chamber. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I am sure I will keep the time. First of all, I should like to thank you personally for your reply. But you realise that the institutional issue remains, the legal issue, which a Member of Parliament on 1 July 2020 calls for some papers and must follow the whole procedure, that the State Secretary for Health itself should come to me to answer and give me the documents. It is absolutely certain that neither the pandemic nor any administrative problem prevented the hospital commander from responding to the MP of Corfu and not to the natural person "Alexandros Aylonite". This, in my view, is an issue of institutional functioning, of the democratic functioning of the Greek Parliament, which must protect the Members of Parliament. You do this today and thank you very much. I did not want to go into the issues I have raised, which are now too timely, as I asked for these documents after just the first wave of pandemic, to find out exactly what is going on in the hospital. He did not give it to me, he did not, and most importantly, give it to me with this policy - to tell me if there is such an expression - rudeness, he did not answer me, so that he would say to me that 'You know, I cannot give it to you because I have a job'. In this sense, therefore, I consider your explanation for me to be convincing and polite and thank you for answering these issues. I would like to remind you, however, that the issues that were involved in my question and the documents I requested were of crucial importance because they had dealt with Corfu's daily press. They were issues of transparency and direct award of a EUR 50,000 project. As regards the issues you have mentioned, the question of reorganisation, namely the administrative organisation of the hospital with the suspension of clinical trials, are matters that have been brought to justice because of administrative intervention in matters relating to the addresses of individual clinical or sub-groups, which means that they were serious, that is, in terms of the functioning of the hospital. I would like the kind meeting of institutional actors to be a given, because you have referred to the two Members. Of course, the Public Prosecutor has direct access to any document. However, the Member of Parliament has no such means of intervention. It receives an answer from you - and I repeat, thank you - after so many months, from 1 July. Isn't it an institutional offense? I would also like to ask you to give me the opportunity - and I shall end - to mention some of the following issues: Firstly, you have to initiate the procedure - and you have said so - the recruitment of some scientific and technical staff at the hospital and at health centres. Secondly, we have also called for - and Mr Biagis is also next to me - that our area should be designated as a problem area and that our hospital should be included in the second or third category, that is to say, to give incentives to those who will participate in the recruitment competition from different parts of Greece to come there and have these incentives. Otherwise, there is no way that the position of doctor in the cross-cutting islands or health centres will be taken into account, because doctors, who will come from another region, are faced with particular problems. Also, I would like to stress that a hundred vaccinations a day are made. The three vaccination centres, the regional, and logically if 100 vaccinations are carried out a day, I estimate that in 2023 Corfu will be covered! Thirdly and finally, I would ask you to do as quickly as possible - to impose - the recruitment of technical staff and cleaners who end their contracts, because there is usually a gap between the two recruitment procedures. In these words, Minister, thank you for your reply. I reserve to record all the problems of the hospital in a question, so that you can answer me much more specifically, as well as the prospect of finding a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u8	In relation to your non-cooperation with the commander, I would say and reintroduce to the public debate that the commander is at the disposal of all Members, as is yours and I would urge you, my dear fellow Member, to return to your visit - but which you have not done so far - so that you can also have information on any other matter you want. I saw a press release you had published, that you consciously did not visit the hospital commander. But I ask you to do it now. From there on, with regard to these fundamental issues which you have raised, on the question of recruitment, we have already studied the question of incentives so that they can be recruited at the Ministry. This is an issue that we are dealing with not only in Corfu. We are dealing with it in other large islands, where, of course, due to a lack of incentives, there is a difficulty in trying to go and hire the National Health System, with all the problems that accompany such an intake, from an economic point of view. So it's something we're looking at. I myself will be in Corfu next week and visit the hospital and what you said now about the vaccinations, even though it's not in my portfolio. I will visit the Psychiatric Clinic and from there on, and this issue is something that we will see, in relation to the vaccination lines, which operate and how they can be strengthened. Otherwise, I am happy to ask your questions and to see them again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Will the first item be debated under number 353/26-1-2021 in the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Katrugalou, to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: 'When will the Memorandums with Northern Macedonia come for a vote? How will there be significant delays in school books and trademarks?’ The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Francogiannis. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, it is clear that you are captive of the original demagogic warfare you have conducted in the agreement. I understand that it is not easy to explain to your voters, who have heard that this is a cut-off agreement, that you are now honouring and respecting it. The problem, however, is that it is not exactly what you should do, because it is to the benefit of and to the protection of national interests. So, to be specific, the first question is clear: when will this three Memorandums be ratified by Parliament? One of them, which concerns the North Macedonian airspace, is clearly in favour of national interest. We are breaking the encircling efforts made by the eastern neighbour to the north of our borders and any delay in this area is obviously a undermine of our national interests. However, there is also a significant delay in the forecasts of the agreement on the withdrawal of the alpha-pollution books and on the protection of our commercial products. I would like you to tell me in particular: in accordance with Article 8(5) of the Agreement, we should so far have had two annual reports from the Committee on School Books. Also, the alpha-corrosion books should have already been withdrawn. We had exchanged financial communications with northern Macedonia on eves in June 2019, and there was a commitment on their part that this would have happened already in September. Finally, let us know what is happening, in relation to trademarks, about the agreement to create an international group of experts. This should have happened already since 2019. Since this provision has only three years' scope, the conclusion of this committee should be completed in 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katrugale, I would like to start by two general assumptions before entering into the answer to the individual questions you have raised. The first is our permanent position on the Prespecies Agreement - it is the permanent position of the New Democracy - that, in our assessment, it could be concluded in a more beneficial way for our national interests. It is an agreement which we have also reached in the implementation of. Our aim - also declared by the Prime Minister - is still to implement it, but at the same time, Mr Katrugale, it is also to mitigate as far as possible the negative aspects of this agreement. The second case of work which I want to do, the second condition, is something we agree with. The priority of our country's foreign policy over time is clearly the promotion and support of the European and Euro-Atlantic perspective of the Western Balkans on the basis of the initiative of Thessaloniki and of relative heresy. In this context we support the prospect of Northern Macedonia's democracy, which was also confirmed at the recent visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country, Mr Osmani. Now, as regards the substance of your questions, the Memorandums and the technical arrangement, as you know, have already been sent to the House for ratification. As regards the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts - the TSE - on historical, archaeological and educational issues, I would first like to point out that in the last period the committee has met twice, once on 19 October 2020 and once on 16 December 2020. Therefore, there is no question of delaying its operation. On the contrary, the work is ongoing and a further meeting is scheduled in February 2021. Now, with regard to the delays that you are saying about the implementation of the committee's decisions, following on from the opening of the matter at service level, Foreign Minister Dendias put it to the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia during his recent visit to Athens on 14 January 2021, and Mr Osmani pledged that the matter will be dealt with personally. Finally, with regard to the issue you raise about starting the institutionalised dialogue between business communities on trademarks, names and names, I would like to stress that the Greek side has already sent a letter on this subject from the past June - an invitation to start the dialogue on the other side. And for that aggression in northern Macedonia again, the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised the matter appropriately to his counterpart, and Mr Osmani assured us of the will of his country's business community to activate dialogue, expressing his conviction that there will soon be a positive development. In conclusion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall ensure that all aspects of the Prespecies Agreement are consistently and well implemented, on the other hand, it requires that it be fully implemented and committed to it and has also highlighted in the context of the recent Osmani visit that more progress is needed in its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. It is clear that the criticism you personally made in the Ambassadors' Agreement, that it could be better for national interests, could be attributed by a well-off man to any previous international agreement. And it is even more obvious that he is clearly contradicting the recent statements by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, and his clear statement that he is not going to vote on the relevant international conventions. And I really cannot understand why there is this time delay if there is no real political hostage from the government and from Mr Mitsotakis against this statement and no hidden threat from the former Prime Minister. The fact that the Prespecies Agreement serves the historical truth and it is not a historical error, as Mr Mitsotakis himself had declared the period of his "macedonomy", has clearly come from the statements of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Dendia, when he recently welcomed his counterpart and said that it is only thanks to the Prespecies Agreement that he cannot claim that his ancestors fought together with Alexander the battles of Issos, Granikos and Gaygamela. But you have not answered these questions, because obviously your policy is binding between the logic which you have expressed now and generally expresses the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the context of the continuity of our foreign policy and the threats of your nationalist wing and the reluctance of the Prime Minister to pursue a policy. In particular, I asked you this: in accordance with Article 8(5) of the Agreement, there had to be two types of annual report by the Committee on School Books. Why aren't there? Why did the explicit provision not apply that from September 2019 should the alpha-corrosion books have been withdrawn from the neighbouring country? We have fulfilled our commitment to school books, not to mention the neighbouring country with its old name 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia', although it seems that we have - I would like to say - a delay in relation to the signs. With regard to trademarks, you have told us about the first part of the article which speaks of support for the two governments of dialogue between the trade world of one country and the other, but you have completely forgotten to mention the second provision of the agreement establishing an international group of experts. The agreement expressly provides that in 2019 it should have been convened. Here, therefore, we have a specific derogation from the timetable that the agreement itself provides for. Generally speaking, this reluctance to apply the agreement to points which obviously favour national interests, as I said before, also has its overall footprint in the Balkans. For example, you have not yet proceeded to a quadripartite conference with Albania, Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, which was scheduled for June 2019 and was postponed at that time due to the elections. You cannot, in other words, defend the positive impact of the agreement, at a time when Turkey is trying in every way both in Albania and in other countries to increase its own position. I would therefore like, Minister, although obviously it does not belong to the narrow circle of your responsibilities, to the specific questions I asked you about the two applications - reports on school books and what is going on with the Committee of Experts on Trademarks, to have specific answers. Otherwise, I will conclude with those who hear that you are not answering, precisely because you are completely inactive as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - I am not addressing you personally - on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u15	Minister, here you go, have the floor for your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u16	Mr Katrugale, we are faced with three difficulties, which we must deal with. The first difficulty is the one I have already mentioned, namely that the Prespecies Agreement is an agreement with which, as a party, we disagree and believe that we would have handled it in a different way and there would be no ambiguity. The second difficulty is a reality. It is the pandemic, which makes it difficult for us to communicate and further work on the issues arising out of this agreement. Finally, the third difficulty relates to the fact that there were elections in the neighbouring country and there was a period of political instability. If I am not mistaken, Mr Katrugale, this must have been six to seven months since they said that they would proceed to elections until the time the new government was elected. However, a great deal of action, too many actions, good faith and with a view to alleviating the negative aspects of this agreement. I am therefore taking this opportunity to highlight once again the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has all the means at its disposal to ensure that all the provisions of the Prespecies Agreement are applied consistently and in good faith. In this context, we also raise all the issues of the implementation of the decisions of the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts on historical, archaeological and educational issues. We also raise the question of the need to activate the institutionalised dialogue between the business communities of the two countries in order to achieve commonly accepted solutions to trade names, trademarks and names. I would also like to inform you that we are being informed shortly, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country has said, the Chamber of Deputies, whose name is one of the obstacles we have, to change and to be now the Chamber of Commerce of North Macedonia instead of the Macedonian Chamber of Commerce. We will therefore seek to deepen our relationship with our northern neighbour in the context of mutually beneficial cooperation. At the same time, it is clear that we will not tolerate non-compliance phenomena, including issues of school books and product protection. Finally, I would like to make it clear and emphasise once again something that, if you like, is the epitome and the most important thing in everything that we do and work together and seek with the democracy of Northern Macedonia. This is the commitment of all of us - and of your party, namely the Officerial Response, but also of the Government - to the European perspective of the Western Balkans, in particular, of the Republic of Northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. The next question is the first, with number 360/29-1-2021, a topical question by the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Haralambos (Hare) Mamulaki to the Minister of Finance on the subject: 'Do the Government intend to increase zone prices and, as a result of objective values and property taxes?'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 7 December 2020, GSMIDA, GSSEVE, OSCE, SATE and HSH signed a joint declaration which was essentially referring to the need for the Government itself not to go ahead with increasing the objective values. It is a request, a joint declaration which has gone a little further and, in fact, making the question of freezing the increase in objective values imperatively. Ten months ago your Ministry's leadership had announced an increase in zone prices. As we know, the increase in zone prices is the first step towards an increase in objective values. However, it has happened and important issues have been raised because of the pandemic crisis in our country. It has been quite differentiated, I would say the image that prevails in the country's economic life. The pandemic swept a lot of activities, and I would particularly say the issue of short-term rental property especially in urban areas. It should be recalled that in the past five years this trend has been constantly growing, thus creating the question of increasing the objective property prices, which, of course, was a Memorandum of Understanding that the government has inherited from New Democracy since 2012. Minister, given all these existing conditions - in addition to all the co-insurance I can say that tourism, the main sector that directly relates to the increase in objective values, since it is also in a fragile situation for the second consecutive year as it appears - creates a climate of insecurity for the public, for it is brought by the pandemic - economic crisis and, as you can see, an imminent increase in the objective values will contribute even further to a circumstance and to a very great difficulty in responding to the issue one and the following: Increase of objective values what it means? Increase in property taxes especially for small owners, for many. So, on the basis of all this, we ask a very clear question, Minister: Does the government intend to move on to increasing zone prices and, as a result of the objective values and property taxes as long as restrictive measures are still in force because of the pandemic and, of course, before the recovery of the Greek economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u19	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I must remind you that the obligation to adjust for the second time the objective values is a memorandum commitment that you have made as a government. May I also remind you that your government first made an adjustment of the objective values in the summer of 2018. This adjustment led to increases in four thousand areas of the country, which were not only tourist areas or seaside areas, as some say, such as Agios Nikolaos in Crete, with an increase in zone value in 2018 compared to 108%, Tinos with a corresponding increase of 91% and Elafonissos with an increase of 90%. The increases included areas such as West Attica where the zone price was determined at Keratsini at 800 euros in the square in 2018 compared to 700 euros in 2016, an increase of 14%. In Cameroon it reached 950 euros the square meter in 2018 compared to 850 euros the square meter in 2016, 13% increase, while in Agios Anargyros it reached 1,000 euros the square meter compared to 950 euros the square meter in 2016, an increase of 6%. Also in Eukarya, western Thessaloniki, the zone price in 2018 reached 700 euros the square compared to 650 euros in 2016, increasing by 8%. The institutions have raised the question of redeployment of the objective values in order to bring them into line with commercial values and you have accepted it. It is a very serious development and intervention which, as a government, we are dealing with with with as much attention as possible, because any realignment of objective values affects property taxation and income taxation. The objective we have set is not to be wronged, to streamline the framework of objective values, to normalise the tax base for property taxation, which will enable us to move forward to new tax concessions in HISA. At the moment, the system of determining the objective values includes only 85% of the population, which accounts for a total of ten thousand per cent of three sixty zones. Many urban and island regions are outside the objectively determined value of the properties. The objectives in the current reform process are as follows: first, to extend the application of the objective zone price system to more areas in order to increase population coverage and reach 100%. The objective-setting system will now consist of thirteen thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine areas, of which three thousand five hundred and fifteen will be new integrated areas and eighty-one areas will be extensions of existing areas. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Secondly, to update the zone values across Greece by certified valuers, based on a standard methodology, which is in line with international and European assessment standards, contrary to what had been the case in the past. Let me remind you that in 2018 the process carried out by accredited assessors presented significant problems of reliability regarding the methodology followed. Thirdly, to create a digitalised imaging system of zones of objective property values by collecting data from many different sources. This process is taking place within the timeframe set out in the context of commitments of enhanced supervision, as confirmed by our country's recent assessment by the institutions. In my dentistry, I will extend my answer to other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u22	I listened carefully to the Minister in his position on the issues. Of course, I haven't answered yet, and I'm going to insist on that. The issue is one and clear. Of course it's a Memorandum cheque. I understand the position of the enhanced supervision you mentioned. But, Minister, we have special circumstances. The Greek economy has always changed, and most of all, the crucial issue concerning property and property management. I mentioned the classic example of urban areas, which are short-term leases. So you have in your hands - in your patronage, I would say - a powerful negotiating weapon with the institutions, with the enhanced supervision you mentioned on this issue. It is therefore possible to halt this imminent imposition with arguments, with a well-founded reason. And because you referred to the events of the previous government, I would like to say that the SYRIZA government inherited the obligation from the New Democracy Government in 2012 - I mentioned it before - and yet we proceeded with concrete actions. We have set up and commissioned the Independent Real Estate Assessment and Determination Department. At the same time, we ran the registry process, which you mentioned, the Certified Scientists of the Ministry of Finance. And also, the evidence shows that 66% of HISRIZA was imposed on 33% of the property owners. You mentioned the issue in the enhanced surveillance report. Indeed, this commitment is planned to have been completed in March 2021. In the medium term, you have taken concrete action and action. In October 2019, you set up and set up a working group with the President of the Economic Policy Secretary, Mr Triantopoulos, and of course the work of that group, which we do not know its results, would, in your prediction, be completed in June 2020. So here we have a specific design and road map that you have taken, but we do not know the Greek Parliament, we do not know the Greek society that has reached this report. And it is very important, because it goes hand in hand with the revision of the zone prices, which we know very well how they affect objective values and ultimately burden Greek citizens with a specific tax. The fiscal capacity of the Greeks has nothing to do with what had to do with the previous years, especially at this critical moment. The value of the real estate with the crisis, I think, clearly shows how bad it has been. I will only tell you two elements that come out of the General Secretariat for Migration Policy. In 2020, citizens of third countries were granted only four hundred and three five-year residence permits in Greece, which is a 88.5% drop compared to 2019. Here, then, we have a clear example, Mr Minister, that the situation has changed slowly. So another argument, another serious argument to be able to intervene and, in any case, to suspend this increase. Of course, a question has also been raised in this context: is there any reduction in the objective values, given the recession that prevails? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, in order not to abuse the time, as follows: Minister, in Greece, extremely difficult and uncertain conditions occur mainly due to the unfavourable conditions of the pandemic crisis. Owners and renters of real estate have a dramatic decline in their income as a result of measures to support businesses from the financial consequences of the pandemic. I think you should protect the low and medium-income layers that have been so affected. I really expect a commitment from you that there will be no tax burden on property owners, at least, and of course I am not talking about owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have time for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr Colleagues, it is the path of returning to normality that will also define the timeframe for harmonising objective and commercial values in real estate. Everything is done with caution and international and European assessment standards are followed. You remember that in the realignment of the objective values that your government did, the problems were not just. The Council of State questioned the process and canceled the zone values in specific areas, such as Philothei, Psychic and Tinos. This was because, according to the reasoning of the Council of State, the certified assessors did not follow international and European assessment standards. Our goal is to adjust the objective values not to lead to increases in ENPI. After all, at the heart of our policy is the reduction of tax burdens and we proved it in practice by reducing HNVIA, in the first days of our term, by the three-year suspension of VAT on building activity, but also by the three-year tax deduction of 40% for the costs that one does for the energy, operational and aesthetic upgrade of one's property. The reduction of HPAI has become visible and measurable by citizens in the clearing of 2019 and 2020. For real estate of up to EUR 60,000 the percentage of the reduction was 30%, for real estate of up to EUR 70,000 the percentage of the reduction is 27%, for real estate of up to EUR 80,000 the percentage of the reduction is 25%, for real estate of up to EUR 1 million the percentage of the reduction is 20% and for real estate of more than EUR 1 million the percentage of the reduction is 10%. Also, an exemption from the HISPIAN was introduced for small-scale islands with their main residence on these islands. These are islands with a population of less than a thousand two hundred inhabitants, in the regional units of Ikaria, Limnos, Samos, Chios, Kalymnos, Karpathos, Rhodes and Kos, as well as in the Municipality of Gaydou of the regional unit of Chania and in the Municipality of Central Corfu of the Diapondian Islands of the regional unit of Corfu. Our commitment to a new reduction in EMSDDA applies in full, as long as the financial area allows it. I don't like to talk about the past, but we're all judged by our actions. We reduced the tax burden on property, contrary to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which reminded you that it increased the additional tax on HNVA by reducing the tax limit from EUR 300,000 to EUR 250,000 and by more than tripling its tax rates, increased the additional HNVA for legal persons, increased the tax rates for rent income. We are moving on the opposite side of this policy. We aim to reduce taxes on real estate. We do it and we will continue to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the second with the number 355/28-1-2021 top cycle question of the first question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Uncertainty for the Shipyards Scaramaga and the workers". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vesiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as a Change Movement, we are insisting on the issue of the sustainability of the Scaramaga Shipyards and in particular on the future of the staff, and that is why we are asking a number of questions. Five months have passed since Prime Minister's speech at the Thessaloniki Forum, where he assuredly announced the coming of a strategic investor who would participate in the relevant Scaramaga Shipyard tender in the framework of the government plan for the acquisition of the shipyards. On 16 November, in response to two questions, you said that there is a strong and multifaceted interest in the shipyards. The Minister for Finance also confirmed that, after the successful completion of the tender, part of the employees' requirements - accrued and others - which were born and related to the period prior to the entry into force of HSY in special management will be met by the special management liquidation product by means of their classification in the list of creditors. In fact, a few days ago the Ministry of Finance introduced an interpretative provision aimed at avoiding delays and the reimbursement of the sums due to employees in special management with a general arrangement. It is positive, although ultimately incomplete, that provision, at least for Scaramaga Shipyards. So, today the competition for the sale of the Scaramaga Shipyards' assets by the special clearer of HSY has corrupted your expectations and expectations, but it has mostly disappointed the workers. The offer was 15 million when the public only wants to collect about 80 million. At the same time, a few days later, the tender procedure for the EBRD property became incomplete, since there was no interest in the property set at a starting price of 55 million. These are the known three hundred and thirty acres, the 5 tank of the shipyard, pier 3, quay 4. So all the questions we've submitted to you remain open. You have to take the view that you are a pro-investing government to do what is necessary to attract investors to both the property and the operation of the shipyard. The question is: Should you redesign the way you want to find an investor and, for example, be done by a single tender and not by two different competitions? It's a matter of the special clearer and the EBRD. Do you intend to bring legislation in order to make the tender uniform? How will jobs be ensured in the new competition and the payment of workers who are enough money, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as you know, two binding offers have been submitted in the competitive process for the military arm of the Greek Shipyards, one of which was considered to be abusive and therefore invalid. It followed a general meeting of the creditors with the participation of the public, Piraeus Bank and the employees, in which it was considered that the price of the 15,1 million euro offer was low. Therefore, the competition was declared barren. At the same time, on 5 February the deadline for the submission of tenders for the sale of EBRD property within the Skaramaga Shipyards was expired. Since no binding tender has been submitted in relation to the minimum price of EUR 55 million set, this tender has been declared barren. The Ministry of Finance, following the effort, plans the next day of the yards. We are currently in the process of shaping the terms of the new competitive procedure within the framework of special management and the rules governing it. Repetition of the two competitions is a one-way road. Our aim is to have strategic investors through which the reorganisation of the Scaramaga Shipyards and their conversion into a modern shipbuilding base capable of supporting commercial and military work. This is also a prerequisite for ensuring jobs. From that point on, and I must stress that we must move within the Community framework and under the law of the European Union. Finding a solution for workers requires compatibility with EU State aid law and compliance with the conditions and criteria to ensure that there is no economic continuity, as this is under constant supervision by the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. In fact, regular information is provided to the European Commission on the progress of HSY's tender. It is also useful to mention what has happened in the past. In 2008, the European Commission found illegal State aid from the Greek State towards the "Greek Shipyard S.A." and predicted the recovery of more than six hundred million euros of interest. In November 2018, by decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, C93 of 2017, on appeal by the European Commission against Greek democracy, Greece was sentenced and imposed a flat-rate fine of EUR 10 million and a penalty of EUR 7,3 million per se until the recovery decision is implemented. The fine for the first six months has been imposed. The Greek State together with Piraeus Bank in their capacity as creditors in the "Greek Shipyards S.A." had submitted an application in 2017 to the Monomele Court of Athens to subject HSY to a special management regime. The company was granted special management status in 2018 by a decision of the First Chamber of Athens in the context of the implementation of the decision to recover the committee. Therefore, the company’s assets should be divested into open, transparent, market-based public tenders. At the end of the process of divesting the commercial part by the Special Administrator will follow the reopening of the tender for divestment of the assets of the so-called military arm of HSY. Following the conclusion of the tender procedure, the notice of creditors will be followed so that the European Commission considers that the recovery has been notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I will submit to the Minutes the unanimous decision of the Skaramaga Shipbuilding Workers' Union expressing their positions and their anxiety about what is to be done. I will also present one of the many publications dealing with analyses of the case of this twin competition, but it is progressing independently of each other. It's from ‘capital.gr’. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I, Minister, do not overlook the fact that you have a situation that you have received. And the 10 million flat-rate fine and the 7.3 million per six months penalty are the decision that was imposed in 2018. But when we asked you on 16 November, if all was done well by Mr Pitsirla, you were prepared to cover him. So we asked you whether there was an agreement between the previous Minister and the European Commission not to transfer the staff to the new investor and you cover it. You are calling today for the decision of the European Commission. However, you must understand that there is no future in the shipyard without the skilled workers, the craftsmen who are now working in them. There is also no shipbuilding industry, Scaramaga Shipyard with investors who must guarantee them guaranteed orders and guaranteed profits. You can't do that. These are not investors, they're incomes. So the government must understand that Greek Shipyards will not be reinitiated unless they show genuine interest in Greek armaments and, of course, if there is no targeted action by the Government, by the Ministry of Finance. The two branches are of course interconnected and need a military shipbuilding department that ensures the high standards of maintenance on our ships and everything we need in the Greek seafarer. This cannot be done by special clearers and EBRD without political direction. The ship repair activity is not a real estate. That's where they specialize in EBRD, not entrepreneurship. So these are the issues of the Greek Government and it needs national planning at central level and will be willing to go ahead and the government has so far shown that it has dealt with the issue, but not in a way that would work. So we think you should consider the competitions in a couple. If legislation is needed, see it. It is not possible for the same region to make two different competitions for the same purpose and to interest two different investors or take them. Efficiency in both cases will be greater if we have a combination of these competitions so that we can attract major investors. Talk to the workers, discuss with the producer bodies, the representatives of Greek armaments, discuss with the parties to find a solution to the chambers, with all the producer bodies. We can find a solution. It is now mature, but not only mature, it is imperative at the same time because of the fines to find a solution. We, as a Change Movement, will help this solution, provided that we do everything possible to save jobs, not only to save them, but also to make the shipyard more prosperous, to increase jobs and, of course, to pay workers' wages. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr Colleagues, the government and the Ministry of Finance have been moving in a coordinated manner for the past to deal with an unresolved problem. The Greek State, as a major creditor to the Greek Shipyards, considered the offer submitted during the previous competitive procedure as inequitable and unreasonable of the value of the asset and the prospect of the investment. Over the past period, the government has placed its burden on ensuring the continuation of the shipyard’s licence, and legislative intervention will be taken in the next time to resolve licensing issues of the facilities owned by the EBRD. This effort is inextricably linked to the rescue and maintenance of jobs. As regards EBRD, in the direction of the best use of its assets, including the 5 tank, the largest of the Mediterranean, with a capacity of five hundred thousand tonnes, has been launched for the exchange of land with the shipyards, which have secured the property access to the new cavalry and the marine space and the necessary vital space for the better use of the asset in terms of public interest. With the recent experience of the two competitions and with the ultimate aim of making best use of the asset in the largest shipyard in the country, the Government will take account of the data and move towards the public and social interest and for the benefit of the national economy. The road to ensuring the sustainability of the shipyards, as well as the jobs, goes through the successful completion of the tender. Percentage of the price will be allocated to satisfying part of the due requirements of employees, employees, employees and allowances relating to the period before the yards are placed under a special management regime. Workers are classified in the list of creditors and in addition gain a significant benefit from the liquidity product by means of legislative intervention by the Ministry of Finance in the legal framework of specific management. I am referring to Rule 40 of Law 4772/2021 on the inventories of ELSTAT, which was recently voted on by Parliament. At the same time, alternatives are being considered with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, such as the implementation of workers' training and resettlement programmes and the facilitation of the retirement of those who are very close to the pension line. At the same time, ways of resolving insurers for the eighteen-month period from April 2012 to September 2013, in cooperation with all parties involved, are being sought. The aim is not to harm workers, while payment for the critical period is pending in justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u33	We enter the eighth under number 374/1-2-2021 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Five proposals from the Change Movement to keep them alive focusing, retail trade, tourist businesses, services and producers”. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u34	These are fifteen proposals, a package of proposals to keep businesses and jobs alive, so that they can start the next day again. It will be a disastrous mistake if the government considers that companies can re-start the next day, which we hope will be close, if they deny their activities. It is a 'bronze' business obligations. To this end, we propose that there should be a brave regulation of existing accumulated debts from any reason, without limitation on time, without restriction on the cause. In a hundred and twenty instalments? Yeah. But the first dose cannot be started immediately. They can't afford to pay. Six months. Liquidity must be ensured in enterprises by reforming the system of repayable advance plus government and bank programmes to provide liquidity. The fact is that the banks raised huge sums from the European Central Bank and unfortunately about 10% to 15% of them gave the market. The fixed and closed-end accounts of enterprises are, of course, included in the regulation that was adopted last week. It should be essential support for all stables in order to ensure that small professionals, individual or legal enterprises have at least the procedure to do with functionality. Do not cut power, for example because it is closed, should not be charged permanently to the ESDP account since it is closed. To conclude, because the questions have been put in writing, I should like to say that we must finally see a bank tool with the guarantee of the public, which pays the checks on time rather than transfer them, because the problem is turned into a domino, the debt is transferred to each other and divided into many. If it gives a percentage of the public guarantee, with such a tool, the banks won't lose. The checks are paid off on time and are paid by the debtor in the time he is able, after two, three, five months, and not only after seventy-five days, with the appropriate guarantees of the State, but also his own obligations. That would take a government initiative to do it. Banks don't do it on their own. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Regional Programmes that came out of the NSRP were important, but they proved to have had problems. It needs the Ministry, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development managed by the NSRP, to see a generous funding for Regional Programmes, so as to support a multitude of businesses and at the same time to save jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is certain that the time given to us in the parliamentary process of a timely question is not sufficient to have a broad and thorough debate. You know that the speaker respects parliamentary procedures and, in particular, parliamentary control procedures. The government is open to realistic proposals. And you and we have a bitter experience of the proposals that have been guided by populism and were not actually based. The bad news is that a bitter experience of all this has also been gained by the Greek people by paying a heavy price. Greek citizens are politically mature. The overwhelming majority of citizens appreciate the efforts of the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because he is aware of the scale of the difficulties and realises that from the first day the government has exhausted all the margins to support those affected by the pandemic. We are living an unprecedented world-wide situation. To date, the government has allocated EUR 24 billion for 2020 and EUR 8.5 billion for the first months of 2021. Those who doubt that this money has been made available can confirm it from the European reports, from the detailed tables per county on the money made, but also from the analytical amounts allocated through the repayable advance, special-purpose allowances, extension of unemployment benefits, TEIX loans and the Guarantee Fund, as well as other interventions in the health, social and economic fields. Let me remind you that there is already a suspension of tax and insurance obligations for those affected by the pandemic by 30 April. We proceeded with a reduction in rents for businesses, workers, students and vulnerable social groups. The draft legislation passed last week introduced a complete discharge from the rental payment for the months of January and February for enterprises that were closed with a government mandate, and support measures were taken for the owners of these properties for the same months, to which 80% of the monthly rent for natural persons and 60% for legal persons. Recently, the new framework of arrangements providing for repayment on a case-by-case basis in twelve interest-free instalments or in twenty-four instalments at an interest rate of 2.5% for all natural and legal persons affected by the coronary and for their certified debts suspended until 30-4-2021 was introduced. A second opportunity was also given to those in this period of time who could not respond to the regulation of a hundred or a hundred twenty doses or the extrajudicial mechanism. All of them are revivaling this regulation with all its benefits, such as decommitment of their bank accounts, giving them the opportunity to re-enter it. In addition, in addition to the favourable arrangements, which allowed many to join the Bridge Programme to grant loans, I should like to say that according to data from the Banking Union, in January-November 2020 loans were granted to some four hundred thousand businesses and private individuals totalling 30 billion euros. There are already five cycles of repayable advance and there will be another one that will cover the companies affected. A essential liquidity tool is the subsidy of fixed costs of companies, which can cover payroll costs and specific operating costs of an undertaking. I could list you in detail all the institutional and legislative interventions of the government, but it is not enough time. In my dentistry, I will be able to tell you more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. It would be useful, Minister, if you would give us the table of where the 24 billion went to us, not because the figure of 24 billion is at stake, but because the level of expenditure really has to be taken into account. And I say this because, as the government rightly says, the resources are not unlimited and, therefore, they must be exploited until the last minute in a way that they give, not just to be consumed, to be shared, to be given. In this sense, I would like you to check the increase in deposits to the banks and to relate them to the subsidy received by large and medium-sized enterprises at the same time as they did not need it. A large proportion of the small, micro-enterprises, professionals have been given poor support in order to get the very large amounts of atrocities, which they did not need and which they did not use, but they made statements. That is why reassessment, evaluation and targeted programmes are needed. I consider the Minister's report positive this morning when he announced the measures. Our question, of course, was from last week and our proposals have long been tabled to the individual issues that have been dealt with. Unfortunately, not everything is handled. Many of them, in fact, have no financial costs. That's why I insisted on the cheque bank tool, so I insist that the repayable advance, which is a vehicle for liquidity in the market, has a guaranteed cap on each category. And I don't mean the grand that you say the professional will have, or he'll get at least two grand. The grand either gets it or doesn't get it, it's in the same condition. And I mean, the one who has an operation, that has permanently three grand, that has accumulated obligations. He won't breathe the grand, the lower. However, between the retail sectors - focus - we must have targeted by-programmes to cover all the sectors affected and not act as transport containers, which are always, unfortunately, damaging the weak, the smaller ones. In this sense, therefore, a positive step has been taken with the Minister's announcements. It is not enough, however, to take measures and, above all, there is no such targeted plan as to make the best use of the country's resources available. And the resources available are both the Recovery Fund and the SUR and other European programmes. And I would like on this occasion if you can tell us whether and when we will have the support on the basis of the Recovery Fund either of the companies, of the production units or of the activities affected by the pandemic today. There will be such a procedure or will we keep talking about the national reserve from overtaxation, which has been imposed in recent years, and when this is spent we will see what we are going to do? What phase is and when will you be ready to talk about using the Recovery Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr Colleague, we are fully aware of the reality and the difficulties facing businesses, workers and citizens. The financial margins are data and we move within them. The citizens - as I have said before - understand the scale of the difficulties, but also the size of the effort that is being made. It is no coincidence that in the hearing of the bodies on the bill adopted last week, which includes support measures, the overwhelming majority of the bodies expressed their satisfaction with its content. From there on, our commitment is that we will continue to support the economy and society as far as possible and for as long as necessary. The Prime Minister announced new measures to support the focus which will soon take the form of legislative intervention. I am referring to: Firstly, the full discharge of the rental payment and the month of March. Secondly, the prediction that the suspension workers will still be compensated by the state. Thirdly, maintaining the reduced rate of VAT on coffee and alcoholic drinks until 30 September 2021 and especially for the tourist package up to 31-12-2021. As I have said, the introduction of support measures is not a static process. It shall be updated and updated continuously and, if necessary, new support measures shall be added. The government has allocated a total of EUR 1,93 billion to support the focus sector. I should also like to tell you in total that in the last week of January there was a total of over EUR 1 billion available through the repayable advance, the heating allowance and the support of rented rents. In the fifth cycle of the repayable advance, half of those applied for are beneficiaries. That was not because the framework was tightened up. But why they have increased their turnover in the last few months of 2020 compared to the same period of 2019. The debate on the bill in Parliament last week gave details of figures. As the Minister of Finance has said, the sixth cycle of the repayable advance is already under way. The sixth cycle is divided into two cycles, the sixth and the seventh. Total funding is increased to EUR 1.5 billion. The sixth cycle with estimated financial costs of around EUR 500 million will involve the loss of turnover of only January. The submission of applications will start until the next Monday and the aid will be granted until the first days of March. As the aid relates to one month, the aid threshold for sectors which have not been closed with a State mandate is EUR 500 and the maximum aid amount is EUR 50,000. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need one or two minutes more, Mr. President. Free professionals without workers will receive EUR 500 to 1000 depending on the drop in revenues. In particular for the focus, for the branches that have remained closed at the end of January, the minimum amount of aid will be EUR 1000 for enterprises without workers, EUR 2000 for businesses from one to five employees, EUR 4000 for enterprises from six to twenty employees and EUR 8000 for businesses with more than twenty employees. 50 % of the aid shall not be reimbursed subject to the maintenance of the number of workers until 31 July 2021. With today's data, the seventh fiscal cycle of around EUR 1 billion will involve the loss of turnover throughout the first quarter of 2021, when the amounts allocated to the sixth cycle will be taken into account. The aid will be paid in April. Again there will be increased thresholds for focusing and business that remain closed with a government order within February. 50% of the aid will not be repaid. Thus, the overall liquidity injection towards enterprises through the successful measure of the repayable advance is projected to reach EUR 3 billion in the first quarter of the year and a total of EUR 8.5 billion from the start of the health crisis. As far as debts are concerned, a firm commitment and a permanent choice of the government is to allow everyone to repay them. That is why we have chosen the successive extensions for the repayment of tax obligations. That is why we have created a new regulation of the twelve interest-free instalments or of the twenty-four instalments at a rate of 2.5% for the debts created between March and June. That is why we created the framework for the reintegration into the regulation of a hundred or a hundred twenty instalments of extrajudicial mechanism for those who lost it during this period. So our firm choice, as I have told you, is to make it easier for all the citizens with debts to repay them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you too, Minister. The second question with number 2967/29-12-2020 of the references and questions of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The Governmental Elefsis Shipyard Initiatives" are not being discussed due to lack of competence. Obviously it is the responsibility of another minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u42	The Treasury thinks it's the Ministry of Development, so we'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u43	That's right, but because it's registered, I have to report it. We enter the next two topical questions, which, because they refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time without meaning that the time of the Members and the Minister will be shortened, twice. These are the seventh question under number 373/1-2-2021 of the President of Heraklion's Change Movement, Vassilios Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Let unemployment benefit be finally paid to the beneficiaries', and the fourth question of the cycle of petitions and questions under number 2989/30-12-2020, by MP Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagi to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Support measures for workers in seasonal operations'. Both will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. We have no objection to be discussed together because, as you said, the contents are similar and, if the written question had been answered, we would not have tabled the request. We have heard the well-being of the numbers from Mr Vésiropoulos. He referred to billions, millions, programmes, facilities, but there is a contradiction. The problems in society are very important and on a broad scale. They are not treated with numbers, but with targeted policies. We had a meeting on Saturday with the management of Heraklion Work Center, staff hotel representatives, food workers and cooks. The information made me even more disappointed by the performance of the measures. The difficult period of pandemic, which is difficult for society as a whole, for workers, for the weak, for the unemployed, for the micro-retired, is even harder and we must have targeted policies. I shall refer to the specific problems that exist and first of all to the unpaid unemployment benefit. Today they get one's unemployment benefit at five. Even those who are expected to take it in the spirit of the law, the letter and the OAED do not take it. Seasonal workers in tourism who did not manage to raise in 2020 the fifty-day wages and did forty-five or forty-five or have not found work to work, have no place in the allowance and no support. Also, to seasonal workers who have worked for the first time in 2020, while completing the fifty brands, they are asked for at least eighty, even though the law says 50. This is what they even ask of people who were old workers and who have interrupted work for one year, either because they went to their military service or because they were pregnant women. It's a big problem, though. It's bureaucratic. Then there are the seasonal workers who have filled the fifty marks, but their businesses are not considered, he says, seasonally now, tourist businesses. Taxfree, for example, is not considered, he says, a tourism business according to the law. They are employees at airports, at ‘Rent a car’, operators at service companies within airports. It's a matter. Also, the large volume of unemployed who are not receiving a benefit is long-term unemployed, since the corresponding programme, unfortunately, limits the concept of long-term unemployed in two years, while both two and a half years unemployed are long-term and three years longer. Finally, the unemployed who have been unemployed in the previous months are not included in the extension if this expiry was made far longer than in November or if they had received, by way of an extension, the two-month unemployment benefit March - April. We have referred to specific cases, Minister, in order to provide concrete solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Biagis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like in turn to thank you for your presence here. I am particularly pleased that this is a question that we have tabled for a long time and we have not received an answer. I, if I may, will be more specific to the question, because at the end of this debate, the thousands of our fellow humans who are watching us take something positive, give them an answer, a hope. Minister, the pandemic has hit our society and our economy as a whole. The heaviest sickest of this story is none other than tourism. In this context, you are conducting a series of policies in order to strengthen workers and you are doing well. These policies have their positive and negative effects. Occasionally accept criticisms of directness, reflection, rapidness, speed, the amounts you give and so on. Sadly, however, I have come to ask you here today to ask you a question for a particular group of our fellow people who are engaged in tourism and who, under the law that is in force and you know better than me, have lost seasonality. They lost seasonality, because this law provides for a specific quota between permanent and seasonal workers and a specific operating time. So, we have the tax-free workers at the ports, at the airports, everywhere. We've got the drivers in the tourist buses. We have the people in the front line, the workers in the tourist offices, who are the first to put their breasts on when the tourism is opened, and whom we will very soon need them again to sit back at the top. For these people, then, we did not get into the process of making all these amendments which it needed and which it needs to take legally in order to get the benefit. We haven't responded to anything. They haven't even taken 1 euro, Minister. Along with these are the tour guides, a group of our people, and they, who have taken the help three months. The Prime Minister has committed himself to the aid of November and December and the CSCE has not yet been deposited that could give the money to these people. And the strange thing is that the government, the current government and the governments over time find ways and solutions when they want it. In the past, Minister - and I conclude with this - there was the possibility and the government did respectively for the fires that existed in June and July 2018 in Athens. There has been an amendment to a specific bill - in my dentistry I will tell you - which has been excluded from this rule in order to get businesses into seasonality. Also, at the initiative of 2020, since your own government this time, there has been an exception to getting some companies out of this season - this is how workers are bound - because of the bankruptcy of "Thomas COOK" and the companies that cooperated with them. So you see that when the government wants it has sensitivity and knowledge and speed. But here, we see that almost a year and a half has passed. And I told you about a lot of our fellow people who were anxiously waiting to make holidays with some help and did not have any luck. Looks like the way we go, we won't make a carnival or Easter. And my question is a specific one and I put it exactly as I have put it in the question, which I tabled, Minister. So the questions I ask you and which we would be very pleased to hear are: Do you intend, Mr Minister, to introduce legislation providing for the granting of a job allowance to enterprises related to tourism, for example, to tourism, food, airports, ports, customs stations, etc....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u47	Finish it, please. You have your dentistry, Mr. President. You're talking four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u48	I shall conclude the question, Mr President. ...surplusing the objective problem created by the qualification of businesses working as tourists, percentage of employees, working time? What legislative measures and political initiatives to support these workers? Will you publish the notorious KHS that our guides expect from which they will receive the special purpose allowance, at least, for the months from November to December? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank both Members who spoke, Mr Biagi and Mr Kegeroglu, as well as the signatories of the questions, Mr Scandalidis and Mr Mulkiotis. Thank you very much, because, with your question, you are giving me the opportunity to refer from the Step of the House - and indeed, once again - to a major issue which concerns the pandemic in COVID -19 in all the political interventions and actions of the Government aimed at strengthening employees in seasonal enterprises, but also the measures that we have taken to boost employment throughout the whole range of the labour market, including many categories of self-employed people. Although the whole planet continues to go into uncharted waters, in relation to the management and consequences of pandemic, the government has already shown its determination and political will to support the many-sided businesses and obviously the workers in them. Overall, sixty-two categories of measures totalling EUR 31.4 billion have been taken since the beginning of the pandemic. Of these, 24 billion is for 2020. It's about 15% of the Gross National Product. 7.5 billion is expected to affect the financial result of 2021. We are doing all this despite the constraints imposed by the extremely high ratio of debt to GDP in our country. Did they have these measures? That was Mr Kegeroglu's question. And he asked me now, but also the Deputy Minister of Finance, who spoke before, Mr. Vessiropoulos. The answer is: 'Of course'. In fact, they had a positive effect. Comparative studies by Eurostat, the statistical service of the European Union for the period from the pandemic principle to October 2020 for which we have available data, show that from all European Union countries, the increase in the rate of unemployment in our country was the second lowest after Italy. Now in the context of our political interventions, individual measures have been taken and continue to be taken in support of workers, freelance professionals, self-employed and obviously the unemployed. However, it is particularly important to highlight the unprecedented financial support we have given to the country's insurance system, the e-ECA, with specific elements. According to the data from the Ministry of Labour's relevant services, a total of EUR 3.4 billion has been paid from the regular budget for special-purpose payments between April and December 2020. The State pays, in addition to the special purpose compensation of EUR 534 and the insurance contributions of hundreds of thousands of workers. In particular, from this EUR 3.4 billion allocation, 942.5 million are transfers of the budget to the ECA, i.e. payments for insurance contributions. And this is a political choice of the government and to support the revenues of the EVA, but also to prevent workers from losing their contract, neither a day of insurance nor a sign in the middle of a pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to speak on this point, because it is of major importance. The vast majority of private sector employees and a large number of self-employed have been supported by the government and this is undeniable. Budget aid has benefited over a million seven hundred thousand private sector employees. Nearly all employees, with the exception of few branches where the effects of the crisis were not particularly large or in some cases also positive - supermarkets and so on. - but also several self-employed branches, the vast majority of these workers have not lost a single day of insurance. This is derived from the data from the ‘ERGAN’ system. On this major issue, there is an outrageous silence on the part of the anti-population side. Behind this number of more than one million seven hundred million beneficiaries there are people who are hard-tested by the consequences of the pandemic. Full-time, part-time and part-time workers are eligible for benefits. In fact, there are also categories of workers who, by unilateral declaration on the special platforms, benefited and supported. In addition - and I would like to stress this - the large majority of the wage earners do not cover the allowance of EUR 534, but their nominal salary, the one they received before the pandemic. Only four days ago, last Thursday, February 4th, an additional EUR 313 million began to pay sixty-two thousand beneficiaries, allocated for a special-purpose compensation payment. For January 306 million was allocated to six hundred and three thousand beneficiaries. A total of EUR 6 million will be paid to the workers included in the ‘COMMUNICATION - WORK’ instrument for December 2020 to ten thousand beneficiaries for the payment of financial assistance for short-term work and the payroll and employees' ratio for the 2020 FINANCIAL WORK-WORK programme is around EUR 1 million and it concerns twenty thousand beneficiaries. It is also noted that the special purpose compensation for November and December 2020 of the artists and culture professionals registered in the Artists' Register until 10 January 2021 was paid on Friday 5 February 2021. With regard to the payment of unemployment benefit to beneficiaries of specific charges mentioned in your question, who have indeed been particularly affected by the pandemic, various types of intervention have been provided for. Overall, the Ministry of Labour has made a reduction in employers' contributions, cover for insurance contributions in order not to lose pension rights and extend unemployment benefits. More specifically, in accordance with the current legislation, to which Mr Kegeroglu referred earlier, regular subsidies for unemployment in the insured tourist-food sector and in the other sectors of seasonal workers are made subject to a hundred working days in the last 12 months prior to the resolution of the employment relationship. For these workers in the context of the emergency measures taken to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, the number required was reduced to just fifty days. Therefore, as you can see, a very large number of workers have benefited. With regard to the question of the classification of the seasonality of enterprises and the possibility of regular unemployment subsidies and those who cannot provide a certificate, given the country's current epidemiological burden and the exceptional protection measures to limit the spread of COVID -19, the responsible department of the Ministry of Labour is working on a draft regulation to deal with the issue of a lack of a seasonal certificate, so that the beneficiaries can be given the fullest possible regular subsidy. That's what Mr. Biagis referred to next.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u51	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u52	That is what you mentioned. The first is Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u53	You think about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u54	I said we're working on it right now. In addition, exceptional monthly compensation has already been paid to seasonal and food-related workers without the right to compulsory re-entry, which you have also referred to. This exceptional allowance amounted to the last unemployment allowance received by the seasonal worker for the summer of 2020. The OAS also granted a single financial contribution of EUR 400 to any non-subsidised long-term unemployed who had acquired the long-term unemployed from 1 April 2019 onwards and maintained that status by 16 April 2020. In fact, the above provision was extended to additional beneficiaries who acquired the long-term unemployed from 1 March 2020 until 25 November 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I will go to the Senate Hall immediately after my denture because they ask me to speak about the bill. So I'm sorry, that's not gonna be rude, and that's why I'm explaining, Minister. I, Minister, went to take care of you and said that he spoke of the welfare of the numbers, but he did not speak of the misery of the people, Mr Vessiropoulos. You have reiterated the well-being of the numbers, but you have not given any clear and concrete answers to the clear and specific questions that we have asked you. First of all, how much unemployment is really going to look after this after the suspension will end. Today, real jobs that have been lost and are maintained through suspension, if the businesses in which they work are not recovered, are lost jobs and will appear when this institution ends. The second thing I would like to say is that there was indeed a unilateral submission by the worker when the employer was undone. However, I have to tell you that the time of insurance does not show up on the basis of the elements of the "ERGANIS" system for those workers who unilaterally declared the suspension. It doesn't look like it yet. What you are saying has been predicted - and you are right to say so, because it has been set out in the MGF and in the regulation - has not yet been implemented, so there is a malfunction in it. The consequences are chained. The issue of the regular grant of seasonal workers I know very well, because I myself have made the arrangements. It is the first amendment to a memorandum made in 2014, signed by Giannis Stournaras, but not the signature of Mr. Vroutsi, because he was not convinced that he needed it. So what does this arrangement say? It defines the seasonal worker, on the basis of his wages, a specific period in our country and dismisses him from the company. There's no connection to the operation. It's an independent arrangement. The previous scheme provided: Who are seasonal workers? Not those who make a certain number of days' wages, but those who work in seasonal enterprises. That's what the previous arrangement said. So I find it abusive to associate the seasonal worker with the seasonal operation. This regulation has solved, which we did in 2014, and I would ask you very much to see it, because it is not meant to misinterpret even what seasonal companies are. You have now said a lot and a lot about the programmes, repeat things, okay, say that everything that you said is true. If you did everything so well and the result is poor or - not to say poor - then there is a problem somewhere: either in your design or in your efficiency or in the way in which you handle things. You need to see it. In other words, since October, as Mr Biagis said in detail, to have the tour operators receive the allowance. We cannot tell you to solve five specific things for seasonal workers and tell us about general regulations and general programmes. The bill will come and he'll be bitter. And I don't care if he's bitter and bitterer for the government. I care about being bitter about families and people. I care they can't survive. That's why I'm telling you now to see it. In tourism there are people who haven't worked since October 2019 and don't get an allowance. Those who have not worked since October 2019 are not included in the support map. How is that possible? Take a decision. Those who are not in subsidies, those who are not in support programmes or guaranteed incomes should receive a three-month unemployment subsidy in order for people to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Okay, you can go to committee. We know you have obligations. Mr. Biagis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, coming here today, I really had no intention of questioning the efforts your government and your Ministry can make to help some groups of our fellow people affected by the pandemic. I also did not get into the process of putting a lot or a little on the scale. What I have really tried to put through my question, which has not been answered, as well as the time-to-day approach to you today, is that specific groups of our fellow people have not received any doubts from the other groups. And I say, Minister, that these workers - and there are many, thousands - are in tax-free, ports and airports. These people, for reasons you know and have to do with the laws and conditions of the seasonality of their companies, have not taken a single euro! This is the case, Minister, for guides to tourist buses. This is true for the workers in the tourist offices, the people who set them a first line to face that last year's project, and they did it! We will soon need these people again and have not even predicted helping them, nor during the holiday season. Much more, Mr Minister, with reference to the tour guides, I made specific references to promises made by the Prime Minister for November and December and for which the Ministry of Finance has still not signed up! Mr Minister, really, seeing you here today, I felt a satisfaction. Knowing that you come from the university space, I felt another more satisfaction because things are so clear that only a few politicians - you do not belong to this conspiracy - could cover the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We didn't tell you how much money you've given. This criticism is going to take place at another time. We are reporting to you specific teams of our conspirators, who are falling and who have huge problems. For these specific solutions you have told us, Minister, that you are working on them. Be careful if we're done processing, the patient's deceased! We are talking about societies and human beings which have a problem with their daily lives, whether they are called tour guides or called tax workers! The Change Movement, Minister, has tabled the question I have told you, which I will table today in the Minutes. He has tabled an amendment similar to the ones you submitted for when "THOMAS COOK went bankrupt" and put some businesses in seasonality, similar to the one he had submitted and placed some employees in companies in the Athens Region with the great fire that took place in June and July 2018. We know her all over the place. The effort we have to make is not unknown.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u59	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one sincere request. We are now going to table in the Minutes the question, the amendment, letters from people like that, memos from guides through the Work Center of Corfu, in order to see how they experience their everyday lives. We are talking about groups of people and we do not come here to oppose you and to oppose whether you give them much or not. No, we're not entering this process. They are our teams of escorts we've forgotten about them, which we're not allowed, Minister. We're not allowed! Please, in your dentistry, be more specific about the answers. These people expect you to give them a hope, a way out of what they're facing. It's about their everyday lives. They're familymen, and the kids are studying them. We must give answers, Minister. I'm not oppositioning right now. I am beating the alarm about something about social cohesion. It's clear! These are our teams of fellow human beings who have left them "on the outside", as we say in the catholic, we have forgotten them, perhaps because of panic and perhaps because of the unprecedented ones we are living with this pandemic. I'll take it all. Please, then: Show your sensitivity through your denology for this part of people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, as well as Mr Biagi. I would first like to refer to what Mr Kegeroglu said, who of course has left now. It would be truly global paradoxical not to have difficulties in an economy that has lost 10% of its GDP. Obviously, we have difficulties. There is no doubt about that. The question was whether or not these measures were effective. And I told you that what we were trying to do was protect businesses, we were trying to keep people from falling into unemployment. And I repeat that, in relation to almost all European countries, we have done so well. Question: Will the next day be easy? No, it won't, which we know very well. And we are already starting to undertake policies that will address this problem, how we will go to the smoothest possible transition to the next day. I am well aware, Mr Biaghy, that unemployment is a major economic, but above all a social issue. It is clear to all of us that the aim of the government is to enable the economy to re-enter a developmental orbit, to reopen the business and to allow workers to return to work and regain their lives. It is, however, a very high obligation for every favoured state to take care of its citizens, how much more so in today's global crisis that we are experiencing. They have been taken and continue to be taken - and this is where we have said the case - individual measures to support workers, the free professions, the self-employed and, of course, the unemployed and the seasonal workers. Many times we really have cases where the safety net we lay can have a hole. We have done so and will continue to do so, to try to cover as many of these cases as possible. I repeat, therefore, that measures have been taken and continue to be taken, as I have said, to support workers, freelance professionals, self-employed and, of course, unemployed and seasonal workers. Therefore, as has been shown in my prototype for over one million seven hundred private workers supported by a coherent economic and intervention grid, the Government is doing everything possible to limit the spread of the pandemic's effects on the incomes of affected citizens, whether they are employees or self-employed. In fact, on Friday, the platform of the information system "ERGANI" opened for the exceptional financial support of EUR 400 to self-employed scientists. The planning shall be to submit the declarations by 15 February and to the beginning of March the OAED payments shall be made. Free professionals, scientists who have started their profession by 31 December 2016 to be beneficiaries should, on the one hand, show a reduction in turnover or gross income of at least 20% in the period April to December 2020 and, on the other, their family income for 2020 should not exceed EUR 30 000. For new self-employed scientists who started a profession after January 1, 2017, the price reduction criterion is not applicable, but the EUR 30,000 threshold for family income is applied, especially for insured lawyers after January 1, 2017. Furthermore, another important measure to support small and medium-sized enterprises from the extended limitations is the grant of fixed costs, provided, of course, that the costs were incurred between March 2020 and June 2021 and that the undertaking belongs to the affected categories. Mr Biaghy, it is true that we are not, unfortunately, aware of the precise economic consequences of the health crisis at both local and European level. It seems that by the advent of the vaccines we have reached the beginning of the end. The benefits already granted - and will continue to be granted for as long as necessary - are a mechanism, a bridge that tries to keep us safe until we cross across. The government's planning objective was, and remains, to create the necessary conditions so that the growth of the economy can be relaunched and employment increased. Finally, in relation to the unemployed who have ceased payment of their allowance, they are already being promoted in this regard for the extension by two months of the duration of an unemployment subsidy for those who have completed or will end the grant within the first two months of the year. It is also promoted in this regard to extend by two months the duration of the regular unemployment subsidy for those beneficiaries who ended the subsidy or end in the first two months of 2021, provided that this expiry is not derived from an earlier extension. Of all the things I have mentioned, and of the reference I have already made to the individual groups of workers to which you refer, you can understand that the Government and the Ministry of Labour have made huge efforts to curb the consequences of the pandemic on workers - and they continue to do the same - and above all we have done so with great intensity in such an important sector for our economy, such as tourism. The government intends to protect both workers and businesses and, of course, the unemployed. We all wish to return to the normality that we so much have missed. Until then, however, I can assure you that we are trying to include all our fellow citizens who are most affected by pandemic under a safe health policy, but also working umbrellas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u63	We are now entering the fifth under number 366/1-2-2021 a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Veotia Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "When will retire retired people without a pension be stopped?" And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the title is very specific, and it is specific, because it is a Gordian link to the issue of outstanding pensions, which continues. We believe that the policy of this government, of the current Mitsotakis government, in terms of outstanding pensions, is as follows: The outstanding pensions reach three hundred thousand. Indeed, several have been received, but today there are more than three hundred sixty thousand outstanding pensions. And we're talking about a hundred and eighty thousand masters, a hundred twenty thousand subsidiary and sixty thousand single. Only thirty-five thousand of these pensioners without pensions get temporary pension and half of them are public. With the intervention of the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennamata, on the outstanding pensions of the Minister suddenly - from this inertia that she was before - has announced measures to speed up pensions and has been forced to cover the inertia and to announce these measures by giving temporary pensions, even in a television interview that those who have applied for retirement and who have been over sixty-two years will be given a temporary pension corresponding to the amount of the national pension which will be entitled in proportion to the years in which they have worked. But here I ask: is this or not a mockery? Because you know very well, Minister, that by recent legislation of this government since the summer of 2020 there has been a specific legislative provision, Mr.4714, Article 115, which states specific rules on temporary pensions. And although these provisions are in place for temporary pensions, nothing has been done so far. Nothing has been done at all! It says, in fact, the law, Article 115, that the rate of the temporary pension will be 70% to 80% of the pension that the pensioner is entitled to, and varies - by modest calculations - from EUR 384 to EUR 960, a rule that is provided for - and is of this government - obviously very different from what the Minister of Labour has announced. This has also led to a confusion beyond the problem and the sadness of pensioners in this process. Also, Minister, four and a half years after the adoption of the insurance bill, of Law No.4387/2016 on the SYRIZA - ANEL government, but also of nineteen months after the election of that government, the necessary software has not been arranged, with the result - you know very well, I am sure - sixty-five thousand pensioners with parallel insurance - I quote, for example, doctors, lawyers, public engineers and the wider public sector, workers in the private sector, free professionals, farmers who have an IKA signal - to wait in vain for their retirement. And what is the trick of politics, the pensioners without a pension. And I ask, Minister, on two specific points. Firstly, with what the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has announced, does he intend to reform, amend the existing law, amend Article 115 of Law No4714/2020 on temporary pensions, in the hands? The difference is great. When Article 115 provides for temporary pensions of up to EUR 960, we cannot currently talk about EUR 384. It's on the side. If it's an amendment. If it's not an amendment, what is it? And if it's nothing, why does Article 115 not apply? The second question, Mr President, is this: for nineteen months now, I repeat, the software has not yet been completed in order for these people to be retired. After five years of waiting, the process of settling this software for parallel insurance cannot go ahead and signals and pensions cannot be calculated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u65	All right, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u66	So when, Mr President, will this software finally be completed? Is the FBI gonna do it? He's going to give it to other companies? What about this software? The EBRD and these pensioners have not granted a temporary pension to the amount indicated in No 4714/2020. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u67	You've been in four and a half minutes, and we're staying way behind. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to Mr Mulkiotis. The question of outstanding pensions, as I have said in previous debates on topical and urgent questions in the House - in fact some of which you yourself, Mr Mulkiotis - have submitted - is an issue that concerns Greek society more than ten years ago. I must point out, however, that the current government has made it clear in the most emphatic way that a great deal of effort is being made to resolve this issue in the current year in 2021. This is not just an announcement, but it is also accompanied by a series of actions and decisions that have been taken at the highest political level. In fact, these decisions have already begun to bring results, as from October 2019, the growing trend in outstandings of the ECA has started to deviate, and in 2020, the number of pensions issued was 31% higher than in 2019, even though we had the pandemic. It has been said from this point of view that the government's plan is holistic, with quantitative and measurable objectives. It is a plan which includes a package of measures that will reduce bureaucracy and speed up procedures. These measures, as announced by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, are as follows: The installation of a project manager and the operation of a project team with sole responsibility for the resolution of the loose ends. The granting of a temporary national pension, that is, EUR 384, and indeed, retroactively since the application for a pension, which I would like to stress, is made without changing what is in force for the payment of the temporary pension, which is the heart of your first question. It doesn't change anything. Just what happened before, now. Priority will be given to the payment of pensions for which an application has been submitted before 2018. This measure concerns some fifteen thousand pensioners. The use of private sector services will be extended, especially for data recording and the creation of files. There will be specific programmes to accelerate the award of pensions to the former problems in the former independent funds that have been integrated into the ECA. Mostly it's the CSAY and the CSMEDE. It will simplify the procedures for issuing pensions with a view to reducing the time and steps required. There will be the establishment of a single pension framework for the submission of a request electronically in the model of tax declarations. There will be an acceleration in digitisation of the EBRD files by making use of resources from the Recovery Fund. In fact, we are already working closely with the Ministry of Digital Governance. It will be used to the fullest extent of the human resources of the ECA, as well as outside ECA and will gradually link the issue of main and subsidiary pensions gradually to the integration of the structures in order to accelerate the whole process. And since your question refers to the first part of temporary retirement, I would like to reiterate that what is being done for temporary retirement does not change at all. The legislation in force on temporary retirement is Articles 29 and 29A of L.4387/2016, which have been amended and supplemented by Laws 4488, 4499 and 4714. These articles refer to the granting of a temporary pension, distinguishing from those who apply for forms and electronically. Forms submitted fall under Article 29 and receive 80% of the average monthly earnings for the last 12 months of insurance. For self-employed persons, the rate is 70%. For this category of pensioners, who are not the majority, temporary pensions have a minimum of EUR 384, a maximum of EUR 768 for employees and EUR 960 for self-employed persons. In order to draw up those who submit their application electronically, which is a majority, Article 29A shall apply. In this case, the temporary pension amounts to 80% of the definitive pension without ceilings. In the 2020 legislation I mentioned, the government made significant improvements to temporary retirement. The most important of these are the increase in the rates of temporary pension from 50% to 80% for employees and 70% for self-employed persons, the addition of OGA pensioners to beneficiaries of temporary pension and the addition to beneficiaries of pension applications, with a 30% reduction in the rate of temporary pension compared with the much higher rate previously applied. However, it should be pointed out that, in addition to all these improvements, the temporary pension procedure is a burdensome procedure, with time-consuming checks, and that is why the temporary pensions granted are relatively few. The provision that the Ministry of Labour will bring to the House on the amount for pension, that is, what I said, the EUR 384, comes to supplement the above legislation and to increase incomes for those who have already submitted a pension application and their claim is pending and, at the same time, do not receive a temporary pension. Consequently, there is nowhere to show what you refer to in the first part of your question. The legislation in force does not change and the amount of the temporary pension is not reduced. With regard to the second part, because time has passed, which concerns pensioners with parallel insurance and, more generally, the implementation of the relevant software...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have your second language. Complete your proposal, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u70	I'm done. That was my proposal. In the second part I shall refer to the parallel insurance that Mr Mulkiotis asks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u72	Minister, we have said that there is a Gordian bond and indeed the solution of the Gordian link to outstanding pensions has been used in communication, namely for a year and a half. From month to month we have that the funds entered into the FAO will enter the digital system, where the pension will come out by pressing a button. That sounds everyday. But another thing is the reality. The grim reality is another, and that must be accepted and it cannot be done differently. The reduction of outstanding pensions, but also the transition to the digital system, say that it is also a virtual reality. It's not real. What about the announcement and in relation to Law 4714, that is, the article, as amended by Article 115, which I told you? So we're going to 384 euros, then we're going temporary and then to final? What's gonna happen? There is ambiguity at the moment, with all due respect, I have to say that I have not understood how the government intends to regulate this process. To a certain extent, it makes it clear that Article 29 will be used for another, as amended by Law 4714 and that another will apply with the immediate national pension. In any case, Minister, why don't we move on? Why don't we just give a different percentage for the temporary pension and go to the bottom of the national pension? They are questions which need to be answered and answered today, because you know very well that there is a major issue with these procedures. So, since July 2020, why has this law not been applied, this Article 29, as amended by Article 115 of Law4714? Why has there not been a procedure to start serving the system? There is one issue, of course. We said on the other hand. Of course, because there had been no other explanations of how it was going. Because if we say that this will be the first step, the second step then what will it be? To say so, should we give the normal 'temporary'? And step three, what's it gonna be? We should give the final pension. So, Mr President, the government is confessing to an absolute failure of the system. It cannot be done differently for these temporary pensions. They're retired without a pension. There is a failure of the system and the world was being mocked, because there cannot be a promise that there will be a temporary pension of 70% to 80% in two or three months and that it has not been done. It has not been implemented. So where are we taking these people? And of course, you continue to create such issues. Not to say now, of course, about the retrospectives which exist. They've been detained, filed, courtesy and mocked because they're going to court. Why would they go? Since it is a few months, a month, 2015-2016, don't claim it? However, there is also a communication procedure - you will allow me to say it - which wants to settle this situation. Oh, no. It's a reality, it's a grim reality. It is a problem that the government has and has to deal with. We are going to raise this issue, Mr President and Minister, because it cannot be an alibi for temporary pensions to be granted in this regulation. There can be no alibi for no temporary pensions to be granted and no delay to finish the pensions issue and no final pensions to be granted. It cannot be an alibi for final pensions not to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u73	Finish, Mr. Mulkiotis, you've spoken for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, it is a serious matter, which concerns society, an issue of ambiguity, and we are trying to clarify it. That's why we're talking, that's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u75	I understand that, too, it's serious, but get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u76	On the second point which I said, Minister, on the software process. Are we going to make that clear, too? Will it end? These people who have the parallel process and stay like this, are the slavery of a situation and spend years and continue this today, now that we are talking. So it's over? Because for this software, you will allow me to tell you that a reply has been given here in Parliament, that it is being arranged within the days. Is it going to happen right away? Will it ever happen, Minister? To date it has not been done. As far as we're talking today, it hasn't happened. And so there is one, too, great loose end. I would also like you to answer that: When, then, is this software process completed? When will all the funds join somewhere, so there can be some relief, "Let's go now, we're also getting our pensions." I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this procedure must now be stopped, pensions must be a communication pretext. We are giving the wrong signal to society and we need to make that clear. We are giving the insurers the wrong signal, the wrong expectations are created and the problem is magnified, insecurity is magnified, all the negative ones are magnified. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, to clarify once again the first part of the question, because above all I will concentrate on the second part of my second term: we do not want no pensioner to remain without income. Unfortunately, this is what happens with the current situation. That is why we said that the national pension, which is enjoyed by the majority of pensioners and its full amount, with a slight control being able to receive it immediately. In fact, we have taken care so that they too are for months now without being able to take it retrospectively. As for the temporary pension, which I have repeated before, it is a serious procedure. It's not going to change anything at all. Those who have applied for will be examined on a regular basis. However, our main concern is what you, too, want, namely the rapid award of the main pensions, the final pensions. There is our main effort, there is all this extra effort that our Ministry is making and which Mr Hatzidakis has referred to in detail in various interviews and we are on the way to this path. As regards your question for pensioners with parallel insurance, I would like to inform you that I had a comprehensive update from the administration of the FBI on the course of implementing and operating the organisation's computer applications. It is indeed a matter. You know that ECA is an organization that is supervised, and is autonomous. It is a matter that concerns us very much, and that is why I have had this very cooperation here. So, between these things, the application of pensions with a parallel time insurance to more than one institution, which is in the process of being implemented, and we hope that it will soon be fully operational and operationally available. This means that a definitive solution is always given to this issue in the interest of citizens. However, since you are also referring to the fact that these pensioners do not receive a temporary pension, I would like to stress that the legislation I mentioned in the prototype gives me the possibility of providing temporary pensions for those who have submitted either papers or electronically for their application. That is why I would like to call on the pensioners to make use of this improved legislation and to apply for a temporary pension. There's no reason they don't. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the aim of the Ministry of Labour is not to reduce the temporary pension, but to speed up the procedures for granting pensions, faster and more efficient service for citizens and to improve existing legislation, in order to achieve these objectives. Temporary pension, improvement and additions to existing legislation shall not substitute the coherent and integrated plan for reducing outstanding pensions. The objective remains the fastest payment of pensions, but at the same time we should not ignore those who have been waiting long for them to be retired. Obviously, this process of more rapid retirement includes pensioners, the beneficiaries who had parallel insurance, in which we are indeed committed as soon as possible to completing the relevant software. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u79	We continue with the fifth under No 2913/23-12-2020 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the MP Laconia of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Movements of students - Family Reunification". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we really wonder at a time when the government is dealing with the problems which exist and which have arisen precisely because of the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic. However, it seems that your logic many times is not to solve the real problems, but it is to try to create a climate of terrorism and isolation in all layers of Greek society. And why am I saying that? Because it seems obsessed. It doesn't explain any other way. That is, while you are trying to bring solutions, you see that there are no acceptance alliances within society and you continue with these solutions. In particular, for the question that we have already tabled to you before Christmas, when - and rightly so - the directives on the possibility of children studying elsewhere from their homes have been adopted, reunited with their families and crossing holidays and changing time, you have not predicted - and we have asked you since - the return of children to their homes, rather than in certain specific cases. You know well that the books of children, the organization of their study, all are at the place where they study and rent homes. Why did you not get any predictions after the question, which we have already submitted to you before Christmas? Do you know what most children have done? They've returned to their place of study. But how have they returned? In ways that are not lawful or in ways that touch the limits of legality. Why do you do this - we don't understand - the moment you see and get a prediction that they can move for seventy-two hours, just to go to the house with the lease? Do you understand what that means? That you don't let the children go back to the study site, where the books have to organize their study, but you let them go to the house. What does that mean? This means that you are leading to exaltation both in the cities in which they study and in the lives of these cities, as well as in the youth and in the minds, when you deprive youth of the place of study. The other question is that in the examination period, this is done on the worst terms for both education and for the students themselves. Thank you. I'll wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u81	Minister, Mr. Syrian, you have the floor. With the opportunity of congratulating you on taking up your duties and having a good success.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, thank you very much. My dear colleague, Mr Arachovitis, thank you very much for your question with Mr Leuteris Avramakis, as well as my dear colleague. The reality of pandemic is unirreversible. It's something that forces us to do things that we don't want. In this case, with one circular since 7 November, it had been decided that the training process was conducted exclusively by distance methods. For this reason, there is no need for student mobility of the HEIs. It shall be explicitly defined in that Decision of 6 November 2020. These included, unfortunately, both postgraduate students and candidate doctors. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] For obvious reasons, those students who are employed under a contract in projects or projects managed by the EPPC, were explicitly excluded from the specific research budgets for IMPs. In this case the universities themselves were given the opportunity to move these students to work. Following the Joint Ministerial Decision of 6 February 2011, teleworking continued with the suspension of all types of educational process, in a natural presence, including the practical exercise of students, with the exception of the possibility of clinical exercises by students only of the last year for health schools and sciences, following a decision by the Senate of the relevant HEI. I reserve to continue in response after your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u83	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Since, of course, we congratulate you on taking up your duties as a university, although you are in the theoretical field, you know that workshops in technical schools, agricultural schools and even in artistic schools cannot be carried out remotely. It is not meant to have three semesters - we are going for the fourth semester - students of such schools who have not been in a laboratory. Open elementary schools, open high school and secondary schools and not open workshops - not amphitheatres - of universities so that students come into direct contact with the subject. I think this is a very serious matter. How will students get a degree without being in a lab room? Besides, there's a student movement asking for this very thing. The return to schools and schools for laboratory courses. It does not mean a university, a degree without direct contact with the teachers and the laboratory. We have repeatedly called on the Government to see if their opinion has been sought and the way in which higher education and in particular laboratories operates. We haven't got an answer. We would like, therefore, as a sign of goodwill, even now, after making so many questions, at least for that particular image. We can't walk like this. But here's what puts us all into suspicion. Why do you insist that students do not come to the cities of their studies and in these circumstances enter a bill tomorrow in plenary that has brought all society to your attention? Is that really the reason? Didn't you want students to be in towns where they're studying and unable to react to a law that doesn't find anyone, but no one, supporter? Not even the police? See your former colleague Minister of State and their reactions. Along with them, they're beaten and the university community. Is the goal really not to react to this bill? That is why I have told you from the outset that what you do without allies, but shows what may be the problem of solving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Well, let's clarify the following. Point 1, today is allowed to move apart from students who are employed under a contract in programmes run by the PPE, students in last year clinical first-year studies for health schools, as well as travel for the purpose of transporting construction after student house rental. This was taken as a measure after the end of the winter six months. For what? Because many students end their studies with the end of the winter semester, so they had to be given the opportunity to go to the apartments they used. That is why we set out a specific procedure, which said they would bear the lease declaration, proof of termination of the lease contract and their police identity, and had the possibility of moving seventy-two hours with another person. Why did we say another person, Mr. President? Because in some cases there were students who were living together and may not have been in their name the rental was in the name of the partner of the two people, so we gave this possibility. From now on, however, we have asked all universities to tell us what all students are in clinical exercises, practical exercises, examinations, anything you need by living throughout the year, and we have seen that their number exceeds 50 000. You realize that under conditions of pandemic, starting a hundred and fifty thousand people to move from city to city would mean that the virus would find an incubation field and cause greater problems. From that point on, I shall refer to three further points: you have referred to the books of the children, which, as you say, are at the place they are studying. Since March last year there has been a titanic effort - and this opportunity to thank the publishers of university writings, who have helped very much in this direction - and the books have been sent without charge to students in their homes by post. In fact, a very small percentage of the order of 4% or 5% has not reached their hands, much less than the percentage that usually remained in the libraries in the bookshops, which were sold at around 15% to 20%. From there on, you talk about youths and mentality lacking its presence in the places they study. And if they were to go there there there is no possibility of living in training. So that is not what you say. Last point, which we will be discussing tomorrow much longer, why are we now bringing the bill. I have heard the opposition repeatedly say: 'Why is it now coming'? Because the universities are closed, it's the answer. The pandemic's been holding a year now. With that logic for a year, no one should rule this country and deal only with the pandemic. This is extremely convenient as a prospect of doing nothing and saying: 'I have the pandemic'. But after a year when the pandemic continues, you have to take your measures for the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. We move on to the third with number 367/1-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Do not count the absences of those students who did not have electronic equipment during teleworking." The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Let's hope she's successful! Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ms. Macrie, and for my part, good luck in your duties. You are an experienced politician, a parliamentarian, and you come from a local society with which I think you have enough links to understand and essentially the issue that we are discussing and to find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Colleague, I'm not listening very well. If you can get closer or take off the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u90	If I don't sound and I need to take off the mask. I say you are an experienced Bulgarian, you come from a local society and you have relations with your local society. I believe that this issue will touch you, and the aim is to find a solution. Television has not worked in practice. The reports I take from my constituency are that the majority - the reports I take are for all the students, but for the sake of the debate I am referring to the majority of the students - participates with the screens closed. It's a kind of interactive linguaphone that's done. Because there are many months, this slowly leads to a lost generation of pupils, a generation that has not received education. We need to act immediately to prevent this existential danger to our country. Immediate action should be taken to ensure that some courses in open-ended schools should be carried out. We cannot today think that the objects that have been learned through telematics have been actually been taught. Our studies tell us that a very small percentage of students who actually participated, a very small percentage of teachers were satisfied. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me some more time, because we had a technical problem at first. So, we need to see the basic lessons, the chapters that need to be taught, relived by living, become a strengthening teaching in these courses and assess the lessons that will be learned by living instruction, if we want education to regain its essence and leave something in terms of the cognitive subject and its expansion to our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u91	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the wishes, as I thank my colleague, whom I also thank for his question. Because I will be given the opportunity to clarify and clarify the procedures for distance education and for success, in the view of the Ministry and society, of implementing this modern telematics in both primary and secondary terms. Mr Colleague, you will allow me to present my sincere question, because from the research I have carried out, you have received an extremely detailed answer from my Minister, Mrs Kerameos, on 18-11-2020. Nevertheless, you have the right to come back and I am very pleased to answer the issues raised in your current question. But you will allow me to clarify this: The school units in the area of Agia Barbara, which are interested in the Association of Parents and Gardens in this region, are the responsibility of the primary and secondary schools of Athens and not the addresses of the primary and secondary schools of Attica. "Athens" writes your text, by mistake obviously. In your first report on the repetition of courses, for the implementation of the repetitions, it is clear that teachers under the guidance of educational project coordinators who have the responsibility of scientific and pedagogical guidance of training programs and support applied to school units in their area, decide to carry out the repetitions in key sections, depending on the needs of students and in accordance with the current curriculum for achieving the learning objectives in each teaching area. With regard to your second reference to supporting teaching, it applies to secondary school pupils and students, encouraging their students to attend such classes. In particular, with a decision by the Regional Directorate of Attica, there are seventy-five school centres in the region in question, and in particular at the Second Athens Secondary Education Department, there are 12 centres in which students and students in forty-six adjacent school units can attend and participate. There are a number of hours of supportive teaching in the primary, in accordance with Article 33(5) of Law 4386/2016. The Ministry has arranged for a special training course for the pan-Hellenic examinations in accordance with the provisions of recent legislation. In your third report, I will refer you to the response from the Minister of State, Mrs Keramos, not because I do not want to reply to you - here are the documents - but why I will be interrupted by the President and bring me back to order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u93	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u94	I reassure you, however, that according to the written assurances of the primary and secondary education directors of Athens III, students and schoolchildren who attend school units of their competence are systematically attending distance education and are not creating problems. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] If I have your agreement, Mr President, I can continue in my dentistry because it will take me another, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u95	Carry on, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u96	For the abstention of students and students from distance learning due to lack of technology, neither the primary education director nor the Athens secondary education director has received a written reference from a parent, guardian, director or director. If the matter arises in the near future, the Ministry of Education has ensured that the necessary technology with lending from the school units is covered on the basis of social and economic criteria. And in your fourth and final report on the evaluation of pupils, the Ministry of Education has taken care of and issued instructions on a relevant circular, according to which no score can be submitted if the teachers are proven and justified to have insufficient evidence to assess the performance of pupils and students in accordance with the applicable provisions, for a course or course which, for any reason, has been taught less than 10 hours. Thanks for the tolerance. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u97	Okay. It was a very clear answer. We don't have to talk about it many times. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. It would be very important to hear from our debate here that the Ministry allows teachers not to proceed with the rating. If that's it, I'd like you to make it clear in your dentistry. The information we receive from both Agia Varvara and from elsewhere is about pressure on teachers to deliver their assessments, when - you said it very clearly - both from L.4610 and from the N.A.S.A. and from the N.S.A.S.A.S.A., there is a possibility for them to count the degree of the next four-month period as well as that of the four-month period. Also, for general high school, there may be reasons for not entering grades. So there's this possibility. They're under pressure, though. It is also very important that the matter should be examined. The evidence tells you something else, but parental data speaks of three hundred children who did not participate in telephony in St. Barbara alone. They speak of computers that the children did not have and they needed by solidarity to find their parents money and to cover the cost of computers for children who had no access to telephony. At the same time, we have information from "KATHMERINI" that speak of a study that took place in a huge number of students. It's over two and a half thousand students -- very good statistics -- and almost a thousand teachers. The eight out of ten students consider that tele­vision is downgrading the quality of courses. Only 60% of students -- and less -- are attending the class, they say here. Only 7.8% of teachers said they did not have any technical problems. 84% of teachers said that if the state had arranged training for teachers in schools, they would have responded more adequately to the needs of telematics. 78% of teachers indicate that telematics should not be conducted in the same way as living. A very important problem in this telecom­munications training is that teaching has not been adapted to telecommunications. A tool that was irrelevant to the current experience was used to implement a teaching method that was in place so far, but not for the technological means of telecommunications. The evidence also shows that both pupils and teachers are asking for no evaluation of their overwhelming majority, almost 70% of both. What is needed - and I ask for your commitment - is for children to be re-educated into all lifelong lessons and for the evaluation to be made on the basis of what they have learned in lifelong education. Otherwise, it's like ostriching, that education has been completed without being completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor. Please very much within three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u100	Yes, Mr. President. I'll do my best. Don't worry. I repeat to my colleague on the matter of absenteeism, which he raises in his question, what is said by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Circular 882/25-1-2021, according to which the registration of absenteeism is carried out in accordance with the provisions in force and the qualification of student and student education will be considered at the end of the second four-month period. With regard to scores, too, justified and justified if there have been no at least 10 teaching hours. However, it is justified and justified. As far as the process of providing computers is concerned, as I mentioned in my prototype, there is specific bureaucracy, which, if followed, covers students. But no complaints have been made. You know better than I do that complaints must be made to those responsible, not through newspapers, which you rightly invoke. It's an investigation you're using. However, in order to satisfy the needs, which, in your assessment and assessment of parents, are uncovered, must be notified to those who are legally responsible for covering them. I will quickly tell you that the living teaching of students by teachers is irreplaceable. In the pandemic crisis, however, our Ministry was invited to ensure all the necessary tools, to strengthen and shield the institutional framework and to transfer the educational process to the Internet within twenty-four hours. The educational community has shown very fast reflexes and adaptability to these requirements, it has responded immediately to digital transformation at national level and has made an excessive effort, having scientific knowledge, giving solutions and always promoting the interests of children. I'll tell you what you already know. It took about forty thousand digital classes. A total of over two hundred thousand classes were held with over four million students’ participations and an average of fifty-two minutes per lesson. This dynamic prompted the extremely significant upgrading and strengthening of public digital infrastructure, including the Pan-Hellenic School Network. In addition, Mr President - and I conclude - the Ministry has prepared a guide from the Institute for Educational Policy on distance learning, the operation from the summer of open online courses for the rapid training of primary and secondary education in the methodology of distance school education and the implementation of the flagship project for rapid training in distance learning for all teachers of all levels and specialties - about sixty thousand teachers - with a budget of EUR 2 000 000 through the ESRB. I have many other useful elements, but, unfortunately, time does not allow me to say more. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u101	We continue with the second with number 365/1-2-2021 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Refugee profile of asylum seekers in the country and recognised refugees residing in the host country and the islands'. The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the State Secretary for Immigration and Asylum, Sophia Vultesis, in which we wish good success. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations, Mrs. Vulge. I asked the Ministry a question, because we have first - and that is something we need to recognise - details of the refugee issue are coming to a conclusion. The first conclusions are that in December 2020 we still had outstanding requests for about eighty thousand refugees, but we also had first-rate decisions. We see that 43% of applications for refugee status were first met. If we add what is likely to be met to a second degree, we will probably go beyond 50% of asylum applications. This overthrows the allegations made by the government of the returning minister, Mr Kumucaku, who had made precisely in this Chamber that the profile of people coming to the country is primarily migratory. The second is that we have learned with surprise from the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties that they still remain recognised refugees on the islands. Of the fourteen thousand on the islands, the two thousand and fifty are in Lesvos and about three and a half thousand in the islands. Why is this the case with the islands, while we have said that what is being imposed primarily is decongested and that whoever takes refugee status is leaving? And a question for you, Mr. Vulture, on the subject of accession. You are a State Secretary for accession issues now. Can you tell us in very bold lines what you intend to do? I have also asked a question about the total number of recognised refugees in the country over the last five years. I would like to hear that number because it is not included in the statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u103	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President, both for your wishes and for the wishes of my colleague, Mr Kamine. His question is very useful. It also facilitates information from the National Representation and from public opinion. As far as the first part is concerned, I will present two tables to you, Mr Kamine. No different numbers. Those who have been granted refugee status to a first degree are sixty - four thousand, sixty - four in the last five years. Another thousand and fifty-nine have again been granted refugee status from the second degree, that is, from their application. A total of sixty - five thousand three hundred twenty - three. I'll testify for the painting. And I will also present you with a second table showing that those who have received the status quo and who are in the structures are ten thousand four hundred. And they do not differentiate our numbers to those who have received the status of recognised refugee and are still on the islands. [[At this point, the State Secretary for Immigration and Asylum, Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As regards the first part of this question, therefore, I have to say that a great deal of effort is being made to get these people out of the islands. The next stage is their inclusion in the HELIOS Programme, managed by the International Organisation for Migration. And this is a stage that has exhausted its limits enough and must definitely be corrected. In any case, this procedure is carried out simply by transferring recognised refugees and by the procedures imposed by the pandemic. Because other protocols must be followed before they are carried in order to be transported safely and to have safety in the area in which they are going. The HELIOS Programme refers to and is aimed at asylum beneficiaries who now receive specific training in order to be able to join - and on the basis of the Geneva Convention, which is fully respected, which, as you know well, has been ratified by our country since 1959 on Constantine Karamanlis - and certain courses are provided so that they can join as long as the problem exists in their countries and Greece offers them international protection as a burden. The latest data provided by the IMO, the international immigration agency, show that at the end of January 2021 the beneficiaries of this programme are seven thousand and twenty-five people. Because I do not want to abuse time, I will answer your other question, which I consider to be very important, in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when I had first taken office in the Citizens' Counsel - this had happened in October 1998 - many more people lived the immigration with the impression that immigrants came to our country for a short time and will leave. That impression really dominated. Reality has devastated us. With refugees, of course, one could say that it is different, that many refugees left due to civil war in Syria, as is happening in Syria, but above all we do not know whether their problems will disappear and, secondly, there are for many of them deeper problems. Whether their racial origin is because they have been persecuted in their countries and have had to leave either their sexual orientation or their religion. A lot of people will stay. So what you are doing on accession should be something really long and we need to look at it in a way that no longer relieves us of the view of an international commitment alone. We must realise that whether we like it or do not like it, for geographical and historical reasons this country will always be a country hosting foreign populations, especially from the areas from which they are already coming. Instead of constantly seeing this as a problem - and of course it also has problematic aspects - we should also see it as an opportunity. We are a country that has a serious demographic problem, perhaps the most serious in Europe - which is already an ageing continent - and that also reflects in our insurance system. So we should change the perspective, to discipline society in such a way that it realizes that something that at first sight seems a problem can also be an opportunity for too many issues. The first step towards integration, apart from housing, is education. At the moment, Minister - and this concerns you either refugees recognised or even asylum seekers - how many of these children are going to school, primary children? How many of them are in the country, how many are attending lessons? Because anyway, they have a right to return to education under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u107	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamine, Mr President, to what you said, 'yes' and 'yes' and 'yes' and 'yes'. I am referring to international conventions, because Greece has, as its gospel, the international conventions and because this convention is all about the refugee profile and the themes you mentioned. Everything, persecution based on religion, sexual orientation - it was a very advanced convention anyway - of course wars, civil wars and other persecutions in various countries, external interventions, etc. Now, as you know, in the last remodeling, the Prime Minister created this portfolio and gave me the honour of entrusting it to me precisely because it is clear to him and to the government that things must finally be done which have not been done over the years. I don't want to say anything else. I say it has not been done because it has been on the increase in a number of problems. You said about the schools. It's a matter of the Ministry of Education, formal education. Obviously, there were problems - there is no doubt - mainly because in several areas where these children are located there was no Wi-Fi, there was no infrastructure. Our Ministry is now making this effort to have Wi-Fi everywhere and especially for older children, because the younger ones also have the opportunity within the camps, especially kindergartens. Now, a National Plan is absolutely necessary. The National Plan on the basis of which the country was moving, despite the fact that it is relatively recent, i.e. 2018-19, because the events "current", emerged that this is also anachronistic. The European Union itself just last November gave its directives and asked for immediate action and timely action, and here comes the pre-accession part you mentioned and which we believe is very useful, because whether these people are staying here or not, adults and minors, what they learn in Greece will be useful when they return to their country, since it is not judged that they should remain in our own country. In this time, however, what I must tell you is that I am actually putting the cart in front of the horse. Why? Because I had to set up in this short time-frame this new National Plan, to use it as a subject matter, because the previous financial period of the European Union had expired and the new period of 2021-2027 is now beginning. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, because it is important, I would like a little more time. So it is very important that we ensure these funds and that the deadlines are set. Immediately after that this National Plan will be created, which - I believe - will be a long-term plan and will also include the new European Union directives. It will certainly be about education, but there are other issues. It is not only the issues of Hellenism that existed before and which are currently being applied by the IMO to the already refugees, but also issues relating to basic skills that these people must have when they leave the protective fringe of a camp or structure, so that they can stand on their feet. Because all the programs expire after a period of time, as he who had received the asylum must be able to live. In order to be able to live, however, it must have basic skills, it must be integrated into the European way of life, as the European Union now says, it must be trained on serious issues such as domestic violence or gender equality. In other words, it is a set of issues, basic humanities, along with studies that will help them to communicate, to communicate within the country. So I would be very happy to have this new plan, after we have finished these procedural procedures, to make sure that we can implement it financially. I would be delighted to inform the National Representation, not only in the context of a timely question that I thank you for, but in the context of a meeting of the committee responsible, because anyway the National Plan will come and become a state law through the committee responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u109	Now we will discuss the third with number 357/28-1-2021, a top-level question by MP B' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in Andros: The Ministry's statements on "fresh" within the NATURA 2000 network prove empty content. The cancellation of the windy in Samothraki shall apply.’; The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it was really a little intense these days. Although, for many days now, the Council of State has decided to suspend work in the protected area in Frankish, Andros, this was not the case. I, too, entered a marathon process with the services to figure out why and finally to implement this opposition. I want to tell you my experience is the poor woman. The image of non-implementation by the services of immediate closure does not remind me of a European country. And what I have experienced does not remind me of a European country. We have a project that has been approved without a proper assessment, which the European Commission refers to us as to the European Court of Justice. While the LIFE Programme is being made for the Spinach - in the LIFE Programme you also participate, the Ministry - and we have the Natural History Museum of Crete and the University of Crete to tell us that LIFE cannot continue if these winds are made there and while we have clear telemetry data for the Spinach, the director of the Ministry is here to define in writing what the period of spinal reproduction is. These are incomprehensible things. It has no right to produce a single-faced document without the recommendation of the relevant services. Does Mr. Diopoulos come in and draw up a one-faced document setting out the breeding period? We want your commitment that it will stop - not just that it will be interrupted - this work once and for all. You must also tell us that Mr Economou's commitment is true that it will not proceed after the negative suggestions made by operators to Samothraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arseni, Mr Colleague, I see that one of the main arguments of your topical question is that it is not possible for the Ministry to implement European programmes for the protection of the Ornithonian woman in Andros and, on the other, to authorize the construction of a wind station. I'll let you down. I'll tell you it's not like that entirely, or one or the other. Then, according to your logic, we would only make winds or protect the environment alone. There is the way and the Union law and national legislation, which is strict, about how a wind project can take the road to authorisation and then to be implemented. But let's go straight to the spiral thing. First of all, let me tell you that especially for the protection of the sprinkler and, of course, the Ornithonian woman in southern Andros, the responsible biodiversity management of our Ministry of Environment and Energy has given a positive and conditional opinion taking into account something very important, the proposal of the management plan of the Andros Special Protection Area, which has been implemented, implemented and implemented with the assistance of the European Union's LIFE financial instrument. In other words, is the other ‘LIFE’ on the basis of which the positive opinion on licensing has been passed badly? It's not like that. We are now going to the issue you mentioned about the different texts that are supposed to conflict with each other in terms of time, the spiral breeding period in southern Andros. The Forests Directorate of Cyclades responds that the breeding season of the sprinkler begins in February and lasts until the end of March. The Directorate-General for Environmental Policy of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which you resign, responds exactly the same. It adds, in fact, that the reproductive period lasts from February to the end of June, since the neighboring nest of the spiral has been activated. It is clear that these two documents do not conflict, as you say. The opposite is true. In fact, Mr. Demopoulos, whom you are giving up, did not come out of his mind when the sparks nest and when the sparks are reproduced. However, for the documentation of the opinions of the Directorate-General for Environmental Policy invokes the literature, the technical report of the scholar - who are scientist groups - the document of the Forests Directorate of the Decentralised Aegean Administration and the methodology manual for the populations of the spiral year in Greece. Now you say that the project has continued to be reconstructed despite the provisional mandate of the President of the Council of State. It's not like that. Six days ago, this took place on 2 February, when the provisional order under number 232/20 of the President, as I told you, of the fifth section of the Council of State, was issued, and an order was made to avoid the implementation of the construction work in areas which are adjacent to sensitive areas for the Original plaque within three kilometres of the nesting area. We're always talking about Frankie. So what happened? The next day, on 2 February, we had the decision, the provisional order of the Council of State. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. The next day, the Circuit Forest Directorate of the Decentralised Administration sends a document to the company and tells them: "Stop the work." The aftermath - there the Ministry comes - having contacted the Orthinology and especially Mrs Demir, who is responsible for environmental policy issues of the "Greek Ornithological Society", what have we done as a Ministry? We sent to the forest guard area to see if the work was done or not. Secondly, our Directorate of Environmental Policy and Protection has sent to the police department, to all the coordinates involved - where are these three kilometers - so that the company cannot say that this is three kilometres [3 km] and that is two or two and a half kilometres [2 km]. Therefore, the work stopped very clearly, since we have all moved fast, because we respect, we love, we are interested in protecting the spark. Since the second part of the question does not relate to the sprinkler and Andros, I will tell you the following: The environmental study on the impact that has been adopted following positive opinions from all the relevant services, has the following: the wind turbines have radar which detect the advent, the movement of an eagle and if they are close to the establishment at issue, they automatically stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you've reached six minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In addition, the sparks thanks to the great work done by the "Greek Ornithological Society" have a chip and we record all these movements...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u115	Keep going on in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u116	...and we'll see if there's any need to update environmental conditions, depending on the elements we collect and gather. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u117	Minister, you have a protology and a denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u118	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u119	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, soon you will tell us that Orthodoxy agrees with the wind park in Frangaki. I mean, two things. First, on January 13, 2021, we have the document from the directorate of the RIS who says that it is Generaris in the breeding season. This document is actually reversed by the subsequent document. In any case, however, you say that the European Commission is allowing the implementation of windshield within NATURA regions and that what you have done and which you are defending - I am very sorry to see - that is to say, to proceed with licensing, and in France in particular, next to the nest of the spiral, while it is being 'LIFE' within a protected area, you tell us that it is legal. Really, are our activities legitimate? Then why are we at the final stage of bringing us to the European Court of Justice for the approval of winds in NATURA without having done all the necessary procedures, which start with the approval of the project? What do we do in Greece? Without a proper assessment, that is, the scholar will come to the services and say "I want to do wind and I want to do it here" and the service will tell him "you know, here is NATURA, your application is rejected, you can't even do an environmental impact study", anyone who wants to do environmental impact study and presses to be approved. This is the procedure and everyone is approved. That's the process. I expect you to answer for Samothraki as well and do not escape. It was clear and binding by Mr Economou, your predecessor, in his statement on Samothrace. I expect you to avoid escaping and I expect you to tell me when the director of a ministry service can only be a single person, without coming from an organ suggestion of his Ministry, making a decision - I repeat - one person and signing it on his own. When is that the Ministry's procedure? Let me ask you differently: When has it been done before? Now, speaking of radar to protect the spiral, you know the dozen examples of radar wind turbines, which we have victims of threatened species, so you know that this is not panacea, and that's why the committee has all the procedures to prevent such wind turbines from being approved. However, you seem to want to violate even your predecessor's commitments that NATURA will not be approved windyly, which is not at least the management studies. What is the impact of this commitment today? What's the impact on Frankie? What is the impact on Samothraki? We expect clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u121	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Arseni, you're confused by yourself. In my opinion, please invoke the decision of the Council of State or, if you wish, the provisional order of projects in Andros and, on the other hand, while you want the decisions of the Council of State, you delete them when it comes to environmental conditions, i.e. I always speak specifically of the projects of electricity production in Rachi and Francois, Andros. I would remind you that environmental conditions were adopted on 5 April 2018. In April 2018, a request for cancellation was submitted before the S.E. For this purpose, I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have tabled a number of amendments. On 4 December 2019, the decision of the First Section of the Council of State, which is responsible for environmental issues, was published and is very strict and rejected the request for cancellation, recognising the legality of environmental authorisations. Well, you say it. We must follow the decisions of the S.H.E.L.D. Or shouldn't we follow them? So, in a previous timely question here again with you last week, you asked me and you asked me whether the government would follow and respect the decisions of the S.H.I.E.L.D. "Of course and follow them" I told you. I reverse the question: We will respect S.H.E.'s decision. For southern Andros or not? Or to you is the Council of State 'I accept it', 'I do not accept it'? So now we're going to Samothraki. What had my predecessor said in plenary on 22 December 2020? That, with today's data, none of the two projects go any further. The first has not even submitted an environmental impact study and the second, the smallest, although it has a model environmental commitment, runs counter to massive negative opinions. So let's go see these works. One is in the position ‘Louloudi’, the largest of 108 MW of wind parks and the other, the small one, is in the position ‘Amoni’ for 2,5 MW. For the first time, therefore, in the position of 'Loudi', as my predecessor said - and still applies today - an environmental impact study has not even been presented. So we still cannot discuss this work at all. If it does not submit, there is no possibility that one in trillion will be licensed. It will be carefully examined, if it submits, under the law, an assessment and, of course, it will be put into public consultation and on the basis of opinions and opinions, if it is chosen for a further stage of environmental authorisation or not. Therefore, my predecessor's answer was correct and clearly it is now true. For the second project, which is smaller - and I shall end, Mr President - all these smaller projects, of course, fall under the consultation procedure and the large ones, again in accordance with Law 4685-2020. So the multitude - I say this and keep it - negative opinions on any project in any part of Greece very clearly and will negatively affect the course of completion of the licence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. We continue with the sixth question under number 369/1-2-2021 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Respect the "no" of the Municipality of Zagori and Metsov at the installation of windshields in protected areas". The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Amyras. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Amyra, you understand that you have just undoed Mr. Economou's commitment. You understand what you said. Mr. Economou said that the project would be rejected. You said that the negative opinions would be taken into account. You didn't tell us what the result would be. If there's a misinterpretation of what you say, please make it clear, because people think that's what they understand. But now we are going to your area and my region of origin as well, Zagorochoria and Metsovo. Over here we actually have in the Dragon, inside Valia Calda, Tsuka Rosa, the wind installation, inside Zagori. In Zagori, in other words, where we have two oaks, it is a whole park, it is in the process of joining NATURA - to UNESCO, and you have obviously moved on again without any measures provided for in the European directive, that is to say, without having made the'screening' of projects before you proceed to environmental licensing. Without due consideration, are you progressing to the environmental licensing process? And we have the municipality to say 'no' unanimously, as in Pindo and the Metsov Municipality, which now after the decision - I will inform you of this decision - your predecessor Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, in the 15th century, are exempted from environmental licensing in practice by a responsible statement by all wind turbines and wind turbines of less than 10 MW. And all the wind parks are cut into sections below 10 MW in Metsovo and in the Egyptians. Eventually, will you consider the opinions of the municipal councils here again? And what answer will you give to the committee that is preparing to refer us to the European Court of Justice, precisely because we do not have, do we not follow the procedures of due consideration and all the others to protect the NATURA regions? And that is why they will receive fines, not the companies, the taxpayers again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u125	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Arseni, our Government, the Greek Government, preserves the natural environment as the daughter of an eye. We know that, we know, we understand it and that is why we weigh it very heavily as the added value of the present and future of this place. The natural environment, therefore, is a good value for us and we do not deal with it by chance or by skin. The opposite is true. That is why our country has adopted an ambitious environmental policy. First of all, the new strategy on energy, the environment and climate, which is in complete agreement with the Green Agreement, what objectives is it going to achieve? Full defoliation of the country and economy until 2028. I hope you do not disagree with that aim. Secondly, it aims to increase the participation of renewable energy sources in the energy mix of the country to 35% by 2030 and to save energy, so that the final energy consumption in 2030 is less than that in 2017. I hope you will sign these targets. So how's that gonna happen? I told you, by increasing the participation in the energy mix of clean forms of energy, the RES, renewable energy sources. Now, as far as my country, Zagori, Metsovo and more broadly as far as Ioannina are concerned, I can assure you that the first person to react, beyond the Prime Minister, would be me if there were any doubts that projects would be planned to reduce the natural environment of Epirus, Metsovus and Zagorohoria. I keep talking to the mayors and the citizens. I am constantly in my country of origin and in my constituency, and I know firsthand where it hurts and where the natural environment in Ioannina does not hurt in Epirus. Just as meticulous as I am, it is the regulator of energy, so are the relevant departments of the Ministry that are consulted and, of course, the local government. As far as your question is concerned, therefore, if we take account of the decisions of the municipal councils, the law is clear and obliges us, it imposes on us, but we do want to do so, on the basis of Article 2(2). 1 of Law No 485: 'It is essential in the context of the assessment of the environmental impact of a project or activity that the opinions of the public bodies, the object of which is directly linked to the characteristics of the project requested and its effects on the environment'. So, of course, we will take account of the decisions of the municipal councils. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But I would like to remind you of something else: last summer, on 10 July, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis had come to Yannina and had done very much, as I would say, an interesting and efficient tour on all the hot issues that existed in Yannina and not just. For example, on August 10th had come to the waterfall, a village in the north of Tzoumerka, and spoke to the village square with the people of local government, as well as the inhabitants. The Prime Minister has heard all these questions, part of which are the ones you are transporting by your question, and he has said the very simple thing, that the high mountains will not enter wind turbines. So we have a great energy supply from RES, which we can manage, so that the mountains are not affected to a greater extent. However, every work that is licensed goes through a 'critical' environmental condition. Our national right is the strictest between the laws of Europe of the twenty-seven Member States. So nothing happens inconveniently and randomly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u127	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you leave me open with your answer. Look, I'm glad you repeat the Prime Minister's statement yourself. However, I would like to remind you that a few days ago - and I remind you of that, because I participated - the consultation on the windshed in Agrafia ended. Now, as to how reliable the Prime Minister's commitments are when you move on to these winds and upset local communities, I let our viewers and listeners judge them. But I will tell you that even the Regional Director of your party, Mr. Kahrimanis, is asking not to enter the wind over a thousand hundred, and we also have the University of Ioannina, again your constituency, whose study we have discussed again and again in this Chamber and says that there is no need for an EIA project within NATURA, to meet the 2030 objectives. It is completely out of the reach and does not serve the climate crisis targets. And while we are in the last stage for our referral to the Court of Justice after the reasoned opinion of the committee against Greece precisely for the permitting of winds in NATURA areas, without proper consideration and without being protected, and there are management plans - so your predecessor said that they will stop being approved windy until the management plans are made - you as if not all of this had happened, tell us that you will proceed with winds. You are, of course, telling us that you will take into account the opinion of the local community, but you are not committed to rejecting it. Finally, as you go, we go directly for a reference to Greece and a fine. You do not care because the fine will be paid again by the government and by the citizens and not by the companies. We are therefore waiting - and this time I am not only talking to you in general, but also about your constituency, about Zagorochoria and about Metsovo - to change your course. We expect you to take into account the opinions of the municipal councils, reject the attempted winds, stop every wind in NATURA, every wind at a high altitude and on fragile small islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u129	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we have to make it clear that there is no complaint from the European Union in the Metsov region or NATURA 2000 either. We need to make that clear, because whoever listened to you would think that the European Union has seen something in Metsovo and Zagorochoria and is running from the top. There's nothing, nothing at all, nothing at all, nothing at all. That goes out of the way. But you don't answer me, and I'm surprised why you're escaping so wickedly. Will you answer me? Are you in favour of pure green energy at the place, yes or no? Do you want renewable energy sources or do you want to? Do you want our environment to breathe from the fuel oil, from the diesel fuel, from the dirty fuel or not? What's your proposal? To keep saying 'No, I don't like that' or 'No, I don't like the other' and, in fact, to pay a premium for an energy situation in the country that brings it back half a century and beyond, it doesn't at all honour your word. So you are asking me now about the European directive. You're asking me what the answer we gave, etc. Listen, Directive 92/2011 concerns environmental licensing and its incorrect transposition into national law. That's where we had two issues. One was the Ministry of National Defence, which asked for one, I would say, a horizontal exception and had it for national reasons. However, this goes beyond the fact that our Ministry will shortly amend the relevant joint ministerial decision in order to include the Union provisions in national legislation. There was another unsatisfactory incorporation, a second annex. It was Annex 1 and Annex 2 of the Directive. So these irresponsible incorporations of the 2016 Ministerial Decision are now in the final drafting of the KYA plan, so that the planned projects and actions under the European Directive and, of course, the national legal order will be subject to them. We are therefore talking about a set of provisions which will soon be promoted in order to fully comply with our country's EU legislation and thus leave this complaint behind. I have nothing more to say to you, why do you ask too much in every question you ask by living. I think I'm answering everything. But I'm interested in you taking a seat. You want Metsovo, Zagori and Konica tied up in the tank of araba, like the fuel oil, the Diesel, the dirty fuel? Who will protect the nature of Epirus? We all have to protect her together. And not only Epirus, but also all Greece. And again to hear it: When we are going to environmentally license any use, any activity for RES...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u131	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u132	Now what are you doing? Are you doing my trumpet now and yelling underneath? Where are you? Are you on a field? Please, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u133	Answer it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u134	Either we want the country to get out of lignite and go forward or everything else is, unfortunately, the side effects of a political reason that does not even know where it begins or where it ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u135	We move on to the debate of the first under No 2999/429/31-12-20 question and application for the submission of documents of the cycle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Explained delays and unfair practices in the operation of the Greek Recycling Organization at the expense of the public interest and the environment". Mr. Amyras will answer. Mr. Femmelle, you have two minutes for your prototype. Please be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Perhaps it is not too easy because it is an unanswered written question and it is therefore a great question. It's not timely. It was made timely because the Ministry of the Environment did not respond. Perhaps Mr. Amyras will tell us why this practice is going on. When he was filed, you weren't at the Ministry, Mr. Amyras. But I have to say that on such a serious issue I have not understood why the Minister has not come, because as I see it, you have been responsible for the VAL 45/12-1-2001, but with the VAL 178/21-1 you no longer have the power. So, Mr President, there is one issue. The minister in charge didn't come. I do not underestimate that you are here, Mr Amyras, but at least for the record that you have been removed. So, in my view, Mr Amyras, there is a serious issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Famelle, isn't the Minister responsible for recycling?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u138	It does not, Mr President, have the power from the Vegetables. It may, however, respond to parliamentary scrutiny. It is about the allocation of responsibilities for parliamentary control and the exercise of political command. In political terms, it does not have political authority. He can confirm it. But parliamentary control may have to do with it. I cannot speak on this matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u139	Look, you put it as a matter of fact that it is not obliged. Do you raise a matter with this or...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u140	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u141	A more general political issue he raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u142	I put on the point that I was wondering why the Minister who has political authority didn't come. I do not underestimate Mr. Amyras' presence. I said it clearly. I think it was recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u143	Good. I've been putting your time all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. So an issue, Mr Amyras, for which, if you want to inform us, is why the Minister is avoiding this debate, so that we can be in the Minutes. However, since you are here today, I would like to inform you that we have often raised this issue in parliamentary scrutiny, and if you are going to deal with it and you are not just replacing the Minister, please refer to parliamentary control. We have just learned that it will be you that brought all the texts and I will submit them in both the Minutes and for your personal use. There have been serious issues for eighteen, nineteen months, which have left recycling behind, municipalities do not get recycling equipment and there are serious institutional issues. On the one hand, the operational plan of the ESDC recycling company of 13 May has been approved but is not applicable. There are loose ends with tariffs and with the incorporation of the ecodesign on the issues of contributions and no recycling equipment has been attributed to the municipalities. There are serious problems of delaying thousands of barrels that have not been delivered. But that is why we will come back. With regard to compensation recycling, however, there is a time-consuming problem starting in 2008 with the peak of the first problems in 2013-2014. So, on the basis of data I present, from the file that EEAN has given us, there are serious issues - unfortunately I have to read from within, Mr President - about "with refusal to go into control, with findings of falsification of results and a 2014 recommendation for a definitive closure of the system". I keep it and I'll testify it all together. In 2017, the law is changing on our own political initiative. Reimbursement recycling submits four times an operational plan -4 May, 4 October, 11 December 2018 and 26 March 2019 - and prepares a recommendation on June 12, the Recycling Agency for a meeting that is brutally interrupted, with the presence and the police. I also present to you the papers, Mr Minister, but also the document of the agency itself under your own administration which admits that the meeting will be suspended at the initiative of the company. It's written here, I don't have to eat too much time. And it comes from that, Minister, since we review, that the compensation comes back in 2019, and again begins a problem where we do not have sufficient information, quantities are unrealistic and feasible, there are no relevant documents, no verification of the possibility of achieving the objectives, no gaps, inconsistencies and no confirmation of geographical coverage. That's the story. So we are now coming to the New Democracy Government. Although this looseness exists and has been interrupted, with the confirmation of your own administration, the evaluation process of the operational plan, Mr. Mitsotakis' first act is to announce cooperation with this company, the unfinished system for the Maximos Mansion. That's the first thing. Secondly, Mr Theodorikos happened to announce a pilot that your predecessor, Mr Economou, assures us here, in the House, that he had no approval and you were not even aware of a pilot project and indeed another regarding the islands. I am also tabling the full evaluation of the Recycling Agency - Mr President, I am sorry - because it is, as I have said, written to you, for the State Secretary to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u145	Please get to the question and you have the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u146	We are therefore coming, Mr Secretary-General, and we are putting two written questions and two written topical questions in March and June 2020 - in May and July - on what is going to happen with this tirelessness of return recycling. And finally, after our own pressures, Mr Secretary, I would like to say this to you - and not on the government's political initiative at last, a new operational plan is being presented, which has certainly not come to us, but we have asked for that in writing. Whilst there are these loose ends which seem to be finalising in May and we are waiting for the suggestion, there are two papers - I will present them - of the 'FYROM INDUSTRY' and of the 'CATHMERINA' from which it appears that - and this is the question, Mr President - there is a negative recommendation from the service with serious deficits in mid-November. Such a recommendation shall not enter the Governing Council of the EEW by the President. Our first question is: why did the President not introduce the issue of discussion? Have the members of the Management Board been informed of this recommendation? I would remind you that, as a question, we submitted this on 31 December. The second issue is: What are you going to do to correct this delay, which seems to be confirmed - by three governments, I have now mentioned - leads the country to the loss of resources and waste of resources at the expense of the public interest and recycling. Let me turn it off here, Mr President, because I have indeed taken advantage of your willingness to cooperate. Finally, what are you going to do about coordination and transparency in all of this? I'm going to continue in dentistry because the President, noble, left me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me say that the authority responsible for supervising alternative management systems is the EEAN Alternative Management Directorate. With regard to the multi-page evaluation report of the operational plan of the return recycling you ask me, it was completed in November 2020. It has been examined in this previous period of operation of return recycling for a decade, for 2009-2019, alongside the scope of the system, the alternative management methods applied and the compliance of the plan with the provisions of Law 4496 was assessed. The agenda of matters concerning the meetings of the Management Board of the EEW shall be adopted by the President. The issue was to be discussed at the meeting of the board of directors of the EEAN scheduled for 5 January 2021. At each meeting of the Board of Directors of the EEW, the conditions laid down in Article 3 of the FEC 769/2009 shall be followed ‘Requirements for the grant, renewal, approval and a Regulation on the procedure for renewing approvals of individual and collective alternative packaging systems’. This sitting did not take place. It was not possible because of the outbreak of the pandemic and, above all, because there was, unfortunately, no explicit provision for this instrument to function remotely. This whole matter came up after the out-of-court intervention of repayable recycling. Within the framework of its powers, with a view to implementing the principles of publicity, transparency and equal treatment in the procurement of entities, the EEAN Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the EEW proceeded to a decision titled - and that is to say - 'Guidelines for the establishment of a procurement regulation, services, works and studies by the ETUC entities'. Posted on the EEA site on 4-10-2020. So that I do not go far on the basis of the legislative provision of Law 2939/2001, the EEW has adopted the guidelines for the drafting of the procurement regulation and, obviously, the principle of transparency and openness has also been folded. The main priority of the Ministry of the Environment is the dynamic promotion of recycling in Greece through a model that will manage waste, focusing on the screening of four currents, namely glass, paper, plastics and metals. Therefore, EEAN had approved in May 2020 the Operational Plan of the Hellenic Recycling Certification Company, whose approval was pending for many years. That's well known. In this light and with the same criteria, the operational plan of any other system will be judged, the same rules for all. Finally, I do not want to zero what the previous government has done. And you tried and did what you could, I recognize it to you. I remember, let's say, that in the National Waste Management Plan of your period you had some over-ambitious goals. I have already told you here in Parliament. I was telling you "decrease the targets" and "be a little more realistic." Unfortunately, I've been confirmed. You were aiming to limit the landfill from 82%, which was in 2015, to 26% of 2020. So instead of the 26% we said, the reduction was up to 78%. From 82% to 78%, i.e. 4% lower. Part of the problem is the malfunctions of the recycling systems. We will soon bring the new law to Parliament, with which we will improve things, to change their base, so that the space can be cleaned up and recycling increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u149	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u150	Obviously, Mr President, because time was sufficient in protagonism. Mr Amyras, you will allow me to put the issues back on track and keep a few questions about dentistry. First of all, I have no understanding why Mr Screkas has not come. If you have any political reasons, at least tell us. Secondly, as you understand and admitted, the accomplishment of the Mitsotakis Government ended on 31-12-20. Because there was no provision on how the institutions will meet by teleconferencing after 30-12-20. So for this reason, for such a mistake of bureaucracy, has the Board of Recycling Agency not met? But then let's go. So while we described you - and there is no question of questioning, because your documents used - that in June 2019 an operational plan remained unresolved and then entered the Hellenic Recycling Association - it was not late for years, and then came in - yet you told me that you approved one, but what was before you have not approved it yet. And while I described you as having a negative assessment in both 2014 and 2019, the report which therefore came to the hands of the board of directors and president - I don't know if it went to the board - says the following in mid-November, Mr President, and here the problem begins. It is a rejection of the recommendation on compensation recycling and says it has failed to implement the alternative waste packaging management work, based on the objectives it set when it was adopted. It says that performance in the period 2012-2019 is very low, they do not achieve for any year any of the seven goals that they had to achieve, except in 2017 that achieved three of the seven. The monitoring and management of the system shall be carried out by a contractor and the entity shall not have access to the monitoring of the work. The quantities actually recycled are not substantiated. It contributes by a very small percentage of 0.8% to 4% to the national recycling targets, while those committed to it are 8.5% to 15%, that is, ten times the responsibility of what it achieves for a recycling target. Unambiguous and conflicting information. Identifies the separate collection with recycling. It operates at high rates of borrowing and pledges future revenues, and in any case, there is also the very serious problem of how to find loans, which is EUR 11 million annually. In any case, Mr Secretary, here - now we are actually going a little bit - we have a system that operated 12 years with the original operational system, which had bureaucratic issues and legislation change. We have also done all of this to ensure that it is a better control, and that is now acceptable, that it is more transparent. However, we are asking the following question. We left a board of directors in the middle, interrupted by police, metropolitan, by many. I remember a lot of interventions at that time, but I ask about the continuity of the administration. Why didn't you go on? Why is it nineteen months pending and while you have a new rejection report, does it not go to the board? I'll tell you my sincere question and anxiety, Mr. Amyras. Is there any breach of duty that the Council has not done so far? Because there is a document that says that public funds are lost. Is there any intention of approval, despite the negative suggestions made by the three governments? Will you do something about this system, if we find that there are issues of public interest? There is a loss of resources, a delay of equipment in the municipalities and negative suggestions that it does not catch the targets. This concerns me and you over time. We are therefore telling you that there is a serious issue. Recycling goes back with such choices. You have a lot of available information in your hands. I testified to you. In my opinion, you have an issue which, if not solved, will be scandalous. There are also articles, Mr Amyras - and I conclude, Mr President - that it seems from adverts from this particular system that it is decided that this system will take on the guarantee that the recycling of plastic bottles which we voted on in No 4736/2020 will be subject to a compulsory refund. All this, Mr Amyras, is very bizarre and frank there is a breakthrough of public money and scandalous inequity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please take note at least of your work from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u151	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Famele, our main objective, namely the government, but also all of us, is to promote recycling and implement the cyclical economy. Seven years ago I would say that I had the honour of asking my first question in Parliament about the circular economy, when the term was almost unknown. Along with tackling climate change, then, the promotion of recycling is one of the key pillars of our environmental policy. One first sample the Government gave it to us with Law 4736 on disposable plastics and the arrangements for plastic bags. In addition, in November 2020, the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, together with the then responsible Secretary-General for Waste Management, Mr Grafakos, presented the bill on recycling after a lot of consultation and discussions with social partners, so that we finally have a comprehensive coherent framework for waste management and recycling in a single legislation. For example, clear priority is given and we will give the separate collection of the currents at issue: paper - I said it before - glass, plastics, metals with concrete measures, with incentives and anti-motors, with emphasis on the recycling of plastics. Secondly, we will extend the producer's responsibility programmes to new product streams, such as agricultural plastics, medicines, textiles, mattresses, furniture, sports items, toys, electric skates and bicycles. For the first time we will introduce - and we are ready to do this, our objectives and the way we will do so have already been presented since last November - in practice the rating of the plastics levy, depending on the type of packaging. I can tell you a lot more. There are tax measures, such as "pay as I fly", the revised burial fee, etc. What's the matter? The issue is that we could have done a great deal over time as a organised state over the last few decades - I would have said - and in the last year and the local government organisations and recycling systems and, of course, the EOAN and the political leaders. What does he need here? We need effective supervision and control of the market, we need to focus on detail, we need to warm the citizen's knowledge of the part of his own involvement in this effort that tends to become a national one, since, unfortunately, for decades, Greece has been plunged into these issues both in Europe and in Europe, and what we need to take to exalt the space and start a new start so that our country can cover the lost ground with regard to Europeans, that is what we will do. Our target is common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u153	We continue with the third with number 2854/420/21-12-2020 question and application for documents of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Entrepreneurial Plan to deal with air pollution in Thessaloniki".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the minutes, I inform you that since the previous one was also an ACP, I reserve the request for documents to be tabled more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u155	For the documents you have asked me, of course, we will follow the parliamentary procedure and submit them. I forgot to say it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u156	So in the event, Mr President, that is not the case - and I quote it on the Minutes - we shall proceed to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u157	Okay, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u158	We are therefore moving on to another written question and application for documents from 21 December 2020, again. It concerns the treatment of air pollution in Thessaloniki. We have a serious issue here, Mr Minister, together. You have, as far as I know, the formal authority. It's a serious matter. We need to talk about this today for the first time, and it may be discussed again. On 3 December 2020, Greece announced another reference to the European Court of Justice, this time for air quality in Thessaloniki and Directive 2008/50. We had an inconvenience in 2008, excess limits since 2005 and an additional reasoned opinion on the suspended particles of Thessaloniki in 2014. On the basis of the Ministerial Decision 2011, the Region of Central Macedonia is the competent authority. Due to this timely delay and inability and we on our own governance have taken the approach to drafting an operational plan from the region, aiming to analyse the sources, to examine the impact of short-term measures, to design measures and policies and to resolve the problem as soon as possible. Before the July 2019 elections, we had information - because I was responsible for the Ministry - that the study was to be completed immediately. As your opposition, we tabled a question on 21-2-2020 on how it is progressing, because we now have excesses in Athens and we are also a step ahead of the referral. So from the Climate Change Department, we have been informed that the Operational Plan for Thessaloniki has been under the regional evaluation ever since. In reply to Mr Hatzidakis, we have heard some generally about energy and climate. But let's go to this particular matter. Following the announcement of the referral, the Vice-President responsible on 4 December gives us a summary of the results of the study. It raises issues such as heating, industry, burning, road transport and possibly fireplaces, biomass burning and a number of measures, which, Mr Secretary-General, I would like to tell you beforehand, seem to us to be generally reasonable. However, Mr Vice-President says that this is in the knowledge of the Ministry of the Environment since the summer of 2020 and has not moved forward on the part of the Ministry, wanting to leave an issue open on your political will on a very critical issue. We, at least as far as we know, have no consultation on this operational plan, which is serious. We want to contribute. But I do appreciate that the previous political leadership has not taken up much, Mr Amyras, and let me say that, you don't have to judge it. There was no coordination, and there was no ignorance of requirements. I'm asking you from here and forward for simple things. Has the Ministry evaluated the Operational Plan? Will there be some presentation and information, and what do you intend to do, first of all, with your responsibility for the coordination of relevant ministries and agencies? What is the timetable for the implementation of this project, since we have a serious problem of air quality and a typical problem of the fulfilment of our country's European obligations? It is about Thessaloniki, so my country, my country and your country, since I remember that we started from the same neighborhood, please a lot for your first answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u159	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Mr Famele, and I, like you, have a personal interest in air quality in Thessaloniki. We went to the same school if I'm not mistaken. Didn't you go to the fifth?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u162	So we have great love. I tracked PAOK. You guys would do a sport somewhere else. So one more reason to be able to breathe fresh air, not just us, but next generations. Air pollution and suspended particles in the air and in the sky of Thessaloniki are an issue that unfortunately exists and has been agitating the Thessalonians for decades. You know that, too. In August 2012 a number of SYRIZA Members had then asked to the then government about the issue of Thessaloniki's environmental pollution. In March 2019, you were the Deputy Minister, you replied here to a question about pollution in Thessaloniki and you presented a plan on how it would evolve from 2016 onwards the situation, with measurements etc. Unfortunately, to ask me today, five years after the announcement by you of the plan that you had put on the rails to clean up the air, just to say it, you did not succeed either in your or your government. There is nothing personal about this. I stress that this is a difficult issue that we need to resolve together. So here we have the following problems. According to the well-known European Directive 50/2008 there are two limit values: the average annual limit value and the average daily limit value, which must not exceed thirty-five times a year. Since 2012, after scientists have taken out the contribution of dust from Sahara to the burden and the measured concentrations of suspended particles, there are no longer excesses of the average annual limit value in the settlement of Thessaloniki. However, there are excesses of the average daily limit price at two stations in Thessaloniki, Cordelio and Agia Sophia. Over the last decade, in fact, the tendency to reduce is small. So, what do we say now to be more specific? We say that the Region of Central Macedonia is indeed responsible and responsible. She sent us her operational program to read it, see it. Correspondence began in February 2020 and deliverables were sent to the Ministry in June 2020. This information and the search for data and clarification from the RIS to the Region of Central Macedonia lasted for a long time and still lasted for a long time. Why? Because here is a very complex issue and you yourself raised it in your initial position. It is a complex issue, the Operational Plan, as there must be - and there is - on the basis of the European directive the obligation to quantify the contribution of each proposed measure. In addition, there is the assessment and must be specific, substantiated mathematics on when and with which final package, compliance with the limit value at the measurement points observed will be achieved. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] So yes, we are constantly in contact with the Region of Central Macedonia, we analyse these six deliverables. I am, of course, ready to present this to you, Mr Famele, so that we can be on the same page, as we say, and from there on, I will tell the rest in my second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u163	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, I am sorry, but I have to reinstate the debate in its original context. I want you to be precise when we talk about it, because it is good to know what we really have to resolve in front of us. First theme. We didn't ask you about the measurements, Mr. Amyras. The question was to refer Greece to an issue of breach of the European obligation, which is why you have to answer us. For the measurements, I did not ask you about the overrun or not. So here we now have a reference to an issue that is regional competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u165	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u166	Perhaps the second mistake you made is that you tried to throw the ball at us for what we did, even though it is regional competence - I repeat - and it had not come into our hands until then. You will now admit that it has come to your hands, to your government, this plan, and one year you have been talking to the region since February.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u167	No, five months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u168	Since February you said, Mr. Amyras, it's in the Minutes. And you said you took the complete plan in June - July. So we should go to what we are interested in about the reference and the plan. Because if you ask me what SYRIZA did, I will remind you that we made an intervention at that time to fund equipment from both the Green Fund and the "ELLENIC PETPELAIA" and to investigate it with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, to help the region and society for dysosmia in western Thessaloniki, which were installed together with a project of several million euros for the relocation of activities of the "ELLENIC PETRITA" which also went ahead because of interventions by SYRIZA, which had not been made so many years since the previous governments, in which you now participated through the New Democracy Party. Let me remind you that the Green Fund has upgraded the station, if I remember correctly, in Cordellio, benzene, metered, and all this has already been tested for sulphur compounds, not to say them now. So what was between us did it, Mr. Amyras. The question is what you're doing now. Don't go throw the ball at the others. So there is a particular issue here. We see that there is one, let us say, first of all, a general regional press release, which needs to be made specific. I think that at the end of your reply you are coming to our words. That is to say, we need to speak with concrete measures that have a specific quantitative effect, but which, due to delays, can be linked, firstly, with consequences for the health of the inhabitants of Thessaloniki and secondly, with a condemnation as a result of a referral. I think we are both interested in the issue of citizens' health first. So there is one issue that we must not go further and delay. Give us, on the basis of the ACP we have submitted, the Operational Plan to conduct a parallel study. You must push the timetable for the consultation in the city and come over to discuss it, of course, with health insurance conditions, so that the city can have an operational plan very quickly and that the measures that I hope are concrete are implemented. Because, otherwise, we also have an unfinished business plan in Athens, which we will put to you next question, which is a serious issue, because we have a corresponding delay there too. We also have the corresponding programme, which concerns all air pollution control issues - I do not mention it today - and the NEC directive. Let us not get involved with these issues too. What we are interested in, then, is in particular in going to the forefront of the current responsibility of the Government and the Region of Central Macedonia for a specific effective programme for the quality of life, as well as for fulfilling the country's obligations. The other ones, let go. We know them pretty well, and we've been watching them. In fact, we also made a difference at that time, because they were finally settled in western Thessaloniki, Mr Amyras. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Famele, I will be very specific. In the two deliverables of six, five and six of the Region's Operational Plan for Thesaloniki, the measures which must be taken in industrial and craft activity - something you suggested before - for interventions in the heating of buildings, central and autonomous areas where there is, for interventions specifically in transport, agricultural activity and the operation of the city. In the last deliverable, six, other measures of a different nature are provided for in order to deal with the incident of atmospheric pollution. We'll give it to you, we'll testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u171	Operational plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u172	I have asked them to come in electronic form.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u173	On a CD.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u174	We shall be tabling them through the parliamentary process. On a CD, though it should be on more than one. I will tell you something very important, because you are telling me that you want to put the matter in relation to Europe and the European Commission. A few days ago we signed and published in FEK the joint ministerial decision with measures to reduce the national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants for the years 2020 to 2029 and 2030 and then for other pollutants, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, volatile organic compounds other than methane, ammonia and finely suspended particles. Why am I saying that? Because the EIA, the so-called, includes national policies, guidelines for both agriculture and towns and waste management and transport. This should not be taken out of our minds when we are talking about, even the first Operational Combat Plan for Thessaloniki at the moment. We have also sent the European Commission this draft and we are waiting for its comments. However, I would like to tell you this because you mentioned Athens as well. The RIS has included the project, namely the Operational Plan for Athens to reduce emissions of suspended particles and air pollution, air pollution, the operational programme "Infrastructures, Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020", entitled "A air quality plan in the wider area of Athens", just as the European directive requires, that is, Directive 50/2008, which we have mentioned today very much. This project was opened by an open public tender in May 2019. Two tenders were submitted by candidate contractors. The competitive process was delayed after one of the two who went to the courts and so we had to arrive in October 2013 to adopt the decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal and continue the competitive process smoothly. So because you have announced that you will also ask me a question about Athens, I tell you that at the moment we are at the stage of the award of the competitive procedure. The aim is, after the final selection of the contractor and the compatibility of the project, to proceed with rapid, rapid, rated, of course always under the supervision of the RIS and the relevant management, i.e. the Climate Change and Quality Directorate of Atmosphere. Thank you very much and we will be here, Mr Famele, to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-08-S1-commons.u176	With the agreement of the House at 17.09 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 9 February 2021 and 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
