ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's mandate from 12-11-2021, the minutes of the KG's sitting on Friday 12 November 2021 were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Before we move forward, I know that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the current questions which will not be discussed today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the tenth under No 162/8-11-2021 topical question by the Member of the Elias Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Happy, revaluations and reduced cigarettes threaten the market in the midst of a pandemic." The current question will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagios. I have to tell you that there are too many of the topical questions today and we will be going late. The time will therefore be strictly respected, please. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the country's trading world is in a very difficult position, as already, before the implementation of the new measures, the consumer confidence index has declined significantly in October, the economic climate index of Greek small and medium-sized enterprises in 2020 fell much more than the European average, while the debts of small and very small enterprises have increased during the pandemic, according to the study by the Institute for Small Enterprises of GATT. Already in the application of the necessary new health measures, the impact, with a tick fall in the retail trade, of a focus that exceeds 30%, according to the first estimates. In a survey by Piraeus Commercial Association, 85% of the professionals said that the sales of the first quarter of the year that passed had fallen compared to last year. At the same time, the next period gradually unleashes a number of debts, such as the suspensions of the pandemic to taxi and funds and the repayment of the repayable advance. A number of obligations such as HOPIA, traffic charges, income tax together with current tax insurance obligations, increased electricity bills calculated at the highest time price of kilowatts in the country must be met. We have a burden on a number of goods and services, while unleashing obligations in funds and banks with a visible threat of seizures - auctions, since the out-of-court settlement mechanism today we are talking about, 15 November, five and a half months after the start of operation, has not yielded a single regulation, while in the first nine months of 2021, the tax-free is 3,75 billion. The lack of liquidity in the market, therefore, because of the mystical tactics of the banks you know, the increased cost of energy and of the supply of goods and the accumulated debts that are being imposed at the same time, create suffocating conditions for businesses and retailers by putting both businesses and thousands of jobs at risk. Soon two questions. Firstly, if you intend to take business aid measures through a new cycle of repayable advance payment of the fixed costs programme and loans guaranteed by the Greek State. Secondly, whether or not you are going to suspend part of your tax and insurance obligations and also long-term arrangements with debt haircuts so that the arrangements are also sustainable, but above all, avoid locking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, in your question you raise liquidity issues in enterprises, risk of losing thousands of jobs, a generalised difficulty in the real economy. I would like to remind you that you have been saying this in the past time, but the reality - fortunately for the Greek economy - has detested your fears. You talked about a photo of the moment going beyond reality. But what is the reality? What is the reality created in 2021 for Greek entrepreneurship and the commercial world? Investments and exports are developing dynamically. The country is showing the greatest pan-European decline in unemployment, the largest pan-European among the twenty-seven countries in Europe. Industrial production moves steadily upwards for tenth consecutive month plus 10%. The expectations of processing, which is at the core of your question, are at the highest point in recent years. The area of construction is reinforced. Public revenue in the days to which you refer, in early November, is 58 million above the targets. The economic climate indicator is at the pre-university level. The deposits of households and businesses only within the health crisis are increased by EUR 28 billion. This is therefore the reality and this reality also confirms the prospects of the Greek economy. How have these been taken, not by the Greek Government but by the European Commission last week? Greece will have the third highest recovery among all European economies in 2021. It will have a stable and sustainable economic growth rate in relation to all countries and Europe's average. It will have the highest rate of growth in investment and exports between all European countries, it will continue to have a decline in unemployment and it will also have the lowest annual inflation among all European countries - not the Eurozone - in 2021 and 2022. What's that for? This is because of the large package of measures that we have taken in time, despite the reasonable fears you have expressed from your side as to whether the measures are sufficient. The report of the European Stability Mechanism came out and says Greece is fourth in the world and third in the Eurozone in support measures for the pandemic. And we spent most of the resources among all the countries from the state budget. That is why it is demonstrated by the evidence I have previously developed that in time, methodically, realistically and responsibly, away from populism and hallucinations we supported households and businesses to stand on their feet. Indeed, today we are talking about, the picture of the moment has two crises. It has a crisis that lasts and continues, that of the pandemic and has a price crisis, especially an energy crisis. In both these areas, we are taking appropriate measures to support households and businesses again, as I will develop in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u5	Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have not answered my questions because I obviously am not talking about the picture of the moment, as you are calling it, but about the situation that people have been experiencing since at least November 1st and I am very afraid - and you know it very well - that people will experience the market and the next period. I don't know if they're all so excited about everything that's happened, and they don't question it. We're talking about what's going on from here. After all, for this reason and tomorrow we have this massive mobilisation for the focus. You at least didn't get to the point of saying that the focus professionals are ungrateful about everything that has been done, as your counterpart told the Ministry of Development. But you have not answered me, Minister, about what you will do from now on for too many of the professionals of the focus, the fun and the retail trade. Even the OPAP agents today sent you a letter. There are too many problems that require drastic and immediate solutions. What are the solutions? The solutions are in two areas. One solution is measures to strengthen business liquidity, and the other is a suspension of obligations which are either current or ‘rooting’ of obligations from the past. So on these two points, it was my question. I don't know, I hope in dentext that you will develop something specific to get a result for people on the market. As far as liquidity is concerned, you know very well that the banks are unfortunately closed. They now began to glean that they would expand business from thirty to a hundred thousand, over a period of four hundred thousand businesses, eight hundred thousand active business VDUs. The Governor of the Bank of Greece comes and tells you that there is a risk sharing between banks and public authorities in the loans to be provided. It's a solution that might dismantle the situation. With regard to a new returnable deposit cycle, the professionals themselves, according to an investigation by FME GSE, acknowledge that it is the most successful measure taken, since the banks were closed down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You're going to give a new cycle of repayable advance? And I say it because the first stage checks have not yet been completed. So you must admit that this is also a failure of the way in which it was given. A lot of money was given without VAT control. And on the issue of the provision of fixed costs, which is a set-aside of commitments, all the money has so far not been used up. You're talking about a time extension. We should go to an enlargement of the circle of beneficiaries so as to get rid of the obligations, which are 5 to 6 billion in the next four months, 3 to 4 billion returnees, 3 billion pandemic debts, while the unpaid nine-month tax is close to 4 billion. In more than 1,300 000 forced collection measures have been imposed, while the new debts for the nine months have been EUR 772 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not know whether the revenue you are saying - and I conclude, Mr President - is so pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Catarini, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u8	It would be useful to tell us why the dose of 1,718 of the Recovery Fund was not disbursed in October and was transferred for next year. And I say this because it is important to absorb the recovery funds quickly, so non-absorption creates a problem. But you didn't answer anything about the extrajudicial, because the Bridge ends...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u9	Come on, Mr Katrin, finish up, you've gone over time and now in protology too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u10	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Because the "Bridge" was only sixty thousand households, only ten thousand in business terms. These measures expire at the end of the year, seizures and auctions begin. As far as the extrajudicial system is concerned, no regulation has yet been adopted. So the professionals and businessmen now we are talking, unfortunately, expect to hear specific relief measures from you on the one hand, support from the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, with particular attention I read your question, I studied it. By your question you raise questions and suggest policies to the government which the market does not even raise. No one's asked for a new returnee. Even the market has not proposed them. No one's asked for a new returnee! You are talking about new guarantees, about suspensions, about 'haircuts' of debts in your place, that is, you are asking for a substantial increase in the public deficit, that is, you are proposing a financial derailment. This current political leadership of the Ministry of Finance will not allow it. It will not allow the financial derailment that you propose to me. We are exploiting fiscal flexibility, with wisdom, responsibility and insight, with realism - I will repeat it - away from illusions and populism. We are doing our best at national and European level, recognizing, of course, risks and uncertainties, which is why we have succeeded in improving the available income of the citizen, reducing the level of poverty, reducing the rate of unemployment. And move on four axes. The first axis is the permanent reductions in taxes and social security contributions, which concern the commercial world. I repeat - as is, for example, the reduction in corporate taxation to 22% of the 29% that was two years ago, such as tax advance, the permanent reduction in the tax payment to 55% or 80%, respectively, for business schemes. So there's the first intervention. The permanent intervention this year will apply in 2022. Secondly, measures to counteract the economic impact of the pandemic. You spoke about the fixed costs. Fixed costs are operating properly. If there is an excess, we are prepared to see it for the first few months of 2022, but this programme is working, it also applies to the focus you have said, as long as the focus is open. In other words, all these months the government continued to support the world of focus. "Bridge II": The "Bridge II" has indeed helped ten thousand four hundred seventy beneficiaries, nineteen thousand forty-eight loans, close to twenty thousand loans. How much? One hundred and eighty million euros. And it will continue to help in the next few months. So while the economy is open, the state continues to help the economy until it returns completely to normality. Returnable advance: In the repayable advance, I remind you that we announced and will apply the change in refund rates. I mean, just statistics, only one third of the businesses will pay 50%. All other companies, two-thirds, are invited to pay less than 50% and even over a period of years. Six hundred million is the cost for this year's budget from this intervention, as part of the financial possibilities. The second pillar is the measures for pandemic. The third pillar is energy measures, energy costs and social policy. These are the measures that now amount to EUR 620 million. I would remind you that we told the PPC about 200 million. So we have flexibility, the possibility, fast reflexes, very quickly, from the country's cash resources and the government's initiatives to find additional resources to help households and businesses, and at the same time we have announced and will implement measures, such as the double minimum guaranteed income for December, to support several of our compatriots. This is the third pillar. And farmers for 2022. The fourth pillar - and I close, Mr President - is lending, arrangements and a number of other facilities. I would like to tell you that with the latest data from the banking system, for the month of September, all new business loan approvals are EUR 1.4 billion. It is the month with the largest new loans approved since the beginning of the year. I would also like to inform you that, on the basis of the available data, loans have been made to date, in five hundred three hundred and twenty-three loans totalling EUR 32,02 billion, and loan suspensions in four hundred thousand six hundred and thirty-two loans amounting to EUR 28,78 billion. Finally, because you spoke of the new due date, I would like to inform you that, for September this year, the new due date is reduced by 49% compared with September 2020. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the second question with number 966/10-2021 of Parliament's cycle of petitions and questions B3' South Athens Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Continuing to the unacceptable delay in the resumption of the uninsured over-age housing allowance, you are condemning thousands of elderly people to find themselves without a roof, with all the devastating results that this entails for their very survival". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, a year ago you passed a law on the housing allowance for uninsured elderly people with the known false drum impacts that it was for the first time. The truth is that the allowance was given since 1985, with renewed MSY and since the end of 2018 OPEK gave it. You laid down in the Act that the submission of applications will only be made in an information system. So everything stops. Six months later, 17 May, forty-two SYRIZA Members ask what is going to happen, we do not apply the law and many uninsured elderly people lose their home, and new applications are not allowed. You respond two months later, on July 28th, that on May 17, the PCI was signed, and all right, the electronic application will start and wait. But your answer concealed something very important. Because on June 5th, that is, a month and a half ago, you have passed a law unrelated to the effect that OPEKA will look into written guarantees as before. You are not answering this to the Members of Parliament, you are not informing the elderly, so it is a mess. In other words, anyone who entered the OPEKA website saw that there would be an electronic system and they would be submitted. And, well, we parliamentarians didn't inform us, it's okay, but you haven't informed either the over-age beneficiaries or that the scheme has changed since May and the allowance is no longer credited to the owner, as many years ago, but on their own account. New chaos. Because that's not what the older people know. In October 2021 there is still no electronic platform. We are coming back with a new question on 6 October, which is not answered and tabled. Oh of the miracle, the day before we get an answer from you, not to worry about the lack of a platform, because the system operates, in the old well known way and the allowance is granted to eight hundred seventy-six benefiters. As for the electronic application to ask Mr Pierracakis. The total incapacity of the state of staff. So I ask you, Madam Secretary, why did you hide on July 28 that a month and a half ago, by law, you returned to the old OPEKA application system? Why did you hide it in your answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u15	You'll tell them in your dentistry, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u16	Secondly, will you now make a public invitation to apply for all the uninsured over-ages who have been discouraged all this time to make the applications and to come as well? Will you inform the beneficiaries that they are now credited to the benefits and should they pay the owners?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u17	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs. Fotio, I have to acknowledge that you have a unique ability to distort reality, so that you can then exercise an equal-minded opposition, of course, in a crescendo of speech found by inaccuracies, by exaggerations and I'm afraid of lies. I am not going to be tempted to respond to your accusations of embolistic and inefficient policies in dealing with pandemic, a delayed reaction to the armoring of the care structures of the elderly and, at the same time, to measures to eliminate the contact of the elderly with their relatives. And I will not do so, because it is quite clear to me that in your text you are primarily addressing a celebrity party audience and secondly - and perhaps only pretextically - you are interested in the substance of parliamentary control. Otherwise, I cannot explain the fact that your word is full of contradictions: "We are in favour of armoring the care units of the elderly, but these should remain open for those who visit. We are in favour of compulsory vaccination of workers in these groups. On the other hand, workers must not work and be paid. We are also with the policeman and the policeman." Let us now go to the 'crime' that the government seems to commit against uninsured elderly people. Since 2018, by your own law - and rightly so - this allowance has gone to the OPEKA. However, the competence passed by the municipalities of the OPEKA passed without any other change at all. It continued to be granted without clear criteria for income and assets and without effective control of the supporting documents submitted by the beneficiary. Ethically some OPEKA systems looked at and adopted as an income criterion the minimum pension of the OGA. Others may have applied another criterion. This arbitrary crisis, and a lack of criteria, I understand that you are not bothering you. For us, however, it was clear that the structure of granting the allowance was institutionally lame and that it really had to change. That is why, in November 2020, this Parliament voted against No 4756 and in May 2021 came out of the joint ministerial decision. What did they do? Three things. For the first time, clear and objective criteria were laid down for the horizontal allocation of the housing allowance for uninsured overtime. Secondly, we stated that this allowance is supported by a digital platform set up by HICP, which, as you quite rightly said, belongs to the Ministry of Digital Governance and, thirdly, that the creation, management, maintenance and upgrading of the platform also belongs to the Ministry of Digital Governance's Ideal. Was it necessary to vote in favour of the Insecure Overseas Insecure Assistance Service? For us, there is no question at all. Digitalisation is a tool for transparency, objectivity, upgrading services, minimising citizens' suffering. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I want less than a minute, Mr President. Citizens will submit their request electronically or with the support of community centres, without having to produce additional documents, as the interconnection will be carried out automatically and the interconnection will be made either with the ADCF or with the IDCF, with the e-EMPKA, with the "ERGANI", with the citizens' registry and any other public authority it needs. However, you in all of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u19	You will continue with your dentistry, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u20	I'm closing, Mr. President. I don't even want twenty seconds. Throughout this institutional intervention, which we have done so that we can establish criteria and give the benefit centrally, but on criteria and transparency, you have seen one and only obvious objective: Discovering cases that are not entitled to the subsidy and we have to lose it, that we are doing this all to save - who? - we who increased the social budget by 24% to 750 million euros to ensure a few hundred thousand euros. You understand the simplicity of these arguments. And if these people don't deserve it, then they're badly gonna lose it? The problem, Mrs Fotou, is not a budget. It is a question of fairness and equal treatment for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u21	Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you again, Mr President. Mrs. Michaelidou, did you hear what I said? Did you hear anything, or did you come to read one thing that you had written? Have you heard that you, by signature, are answering the question we've asked you on the day before yesterday? I'll testify because it looks like you haven't heard from him. You have answered, Mrs Michaelidou, so I asked you these questions, so I updated them as I updated them. Didn't you hear anything? Leave those things you're talking about. The criteria according to which the allowance for uninsured overtime is awarded are the same as they existed before. You haven't changed an antenna. What have you changed? That from where he was paid directly to the person who rented his house, that is to say the owner, and that created security to him and didn't get the superstitious out because he was getting the allowance, that you changed it and gave it to the elderly. You know that? The second thing you changed was that you said that the applications would be made and that this would be done on an electronic platform and the electronic platform, you still didn't get it out because it was Pierracakis' fault. Okay. But I told you. Did you get a hamburger that in May, in July, you responded to forty-two Members wrong, that you hid evidence? That's what I asked you. Let's go later, then. I asked you specific questions and of course you did not answer them. You came with a prefabricated text. You didn't answer us. So now what happened? You're telling us something in your answer. Didn't you read it? ‘The due allowance has been paid to eight hundred seventy-seven six beneficiaries with only fifty applications pending’. However, since November 1918, the OPEK took over the benefits of uninsured over-ages until the July elections, an average of one thousand eight hundred uninsured over-aged people were subsidized. What happened? Your first legislative guarantee has led to the loss of nine hundred and forty-seven people, Mrs Michaelidou. That's what we lost with this terrible invention you've made. We lost them. Do you know what happened right now? You know we lost nine hundred forty-seven people? Is it random? How did you do that? Did you ask your services what happened? I'll tell you sweetly: "You cut off" nine hundred forty-seven uninsured over-age housing allowance beneficiaries. Where are they right now? That's why I'm asking you to make a public notice so that they can come back again. Where are these people? Otherwise, you're making the known communication. On October 1st, you go to the nursing homes of Athens, Mr. Hatzidakis makes an announcement... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm a little intolerable, like the State Secretary, Mr. President. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u23	All right, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u24	Do you feel the duty toward third-age people, Madam Secretary? I ask you again: will you investigate the reasons for this criminal reduction of nine hundred forty-seven beneficiaries? Because what is your intention to do with everything you say? Your intention is to reduce with various tricks that make the beneficiaries, the allowances and the total cost. You did the same with the minimum guaranteed income, you do the same on several occasions. Leave the designations - because they certainly do not touch me - and find me the nine hundred forty-seven over-aged people who have disappeared with this amazing move you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u25	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Fotou, you will allow me. You cannot come to the national Parliament and say nonsense. You cannot come to the national Parliament and say what is downside, because that is what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, what are these things? I didn't say anything offensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u28	On the one hand, we have a purely liar. Lies. Just lies...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u29	What did I tell you it was insulting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u30	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u31	I used to think that you're moving misinformation and that you're not being well informed. I really thought you couldn't find good scientific associates, that for some reason those you had next to you were parties, they were from SYRIZA, they were from the ANELs, I don't know where they were from...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u32	(...not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u33	Mrs. Fotio, please. This is Parliamentary Control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u34	This is Parliamentary Control?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u35	The Member is asking and the Minister is answering and the world is judging. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u36	I thought you couldn't find partners. I still don't think it's your partner's fault. Now I really think you're deliberately lying. Two are the essential factors here. Firstly, we did not, you say, inform the elderly about the law - which I did not vote for, I am not a parliamentarian, this Parliament voted for the law - that they could lodge applications for housing assistance for uninsured super-secured and in writing, but also electronically when the platform is being built? Isn't that why we informed them? That from where they applied to the municipalities in writing, will they now in writing be able to go to OPEKA or to community centres and make the applications? Isn't that why we informed them? Or the other thing you say we cut them off? Who did we cut? Lies, lies, lies. The grant of the allowance to the beneficiaries has never been interrupted. Following the resolution of Law 4756, OPEKA completed, in accordance with the transitional provisions of the law, a hundred and eighty-one applications submitted and pending. And you know what they were waiting for? From your own administration. Following the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Decision in May 1921, the Agency accepted written applications made by it. It was completed after the DAC was issued, three hundred seventy-six applications. Of these three hundred seventy-six, most of them were outstanding, you know when? From your own administration. Well, instead of thanking for not inviting you to apologize, why, since you had passed to OPEK the housing allowance for uninsured overtime, you have never done so, you are coming now and you forsake us for what? Why isn't the platform still out? I want to submit to the minutes the assurance that the platform will work 1-1-2022. But until the platform works, we process not only our own applications, but also the applications you left us, because there is no "you" and "we" in how the Greek state works. There are only vulnerable citizens. We serve them with the best we can do, in writing and electronically, when, as Mr. Pierracakis and Mr. Georgades have learned, they continue and do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u37	Will the second question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, on the question of 'When will it finally begin to reduce the unacceptablely high number of outstanding pensions'? Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, two and a half years after the takeover of power by New Democracy and more than one year after the opening of the award to what we called a digital pension with one click, by Prime Minister Mitsotakis in Efka, there are hundreds of sixty thousand applications for main pensions and a hundred and twenty-seven thousand assistants. In other words, you are going beyond, Minister, within two years of governance and the governance of SYRIZA-ANEL co-government. At the same time, it is expected that more than five hundred experienced employees will be retired this year, and at the end of the year the officials authorized to issue pensions will also be reduced to six hundred. In this context, in addition to the loose ends and applications that have been stacked for four or five years, the staff of the EPC, which, unfortunately, the Minister has repeatedly gone through, are called on to carry out an additional two hundred thousand with two hundred thousand new applications for retirement, as in 2021 it is evolving into a year of mass exit from work. At the same time, the involvement of lawyers and accountants in the process of issuing pensions voted last spring has still not worked. Today or yesterday it started to work. Pensions to be issued by non-ECA bodies will be easy for sure, but risk paying without the signature of the ECA official. From the same evidence, Minister, of the outstanding and overdue pensions, of the main and supplementary pensions, the government's inability to deal with the problem is proof of the inability to deal with the problem by increasing the insecurity and suffering of the insured and the candidate pensioners in the country. Thousands of pensioners with parallel insurance wait in vain for about five years. In previous time questions, your consistent answer was to repeat the exact same thing: that the relevant accounting systems will soon work. Nothing's happened today. Also, in a developed state, which seems to be Greece, which is a member of the European Union, the state cannot allow this situation to continue in the day-to-day suffering of pensioners. Without retirement, we say so. This, of course, entails a financial burden. However, their requests are not handled. I have two questions, Minister. First, after these two and a half years, then, unprecedented state of affairs - we cannot say anything else - and as the tails of suffering increase in the insurance system, do you intend to go ahead with the recruitment of permanent and contract staff in order to clear more than three hundred thousand applications for primary and supplementary pensions, one-off dividends and one-offs? When do you estimate that the loose ends, if zeroed, will at least be reduced to a reasonable number? Also, when, Minister, will the wonderful software systems finally function in order to implement the provision of Law 4387/2016 on parallel insurance? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u39	The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Tsakloglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, the pension system is undoubtedly the most important pillar of the social state in our country. Ensuring a decent living for the partisans of work is a competitor to government policy. There is no doubt that the thorn in this pursuit is the question of outstanding pensions, but it did not arise yesterday. It has been afflicting citizens for over a decade. The integration of all the insurance funds under a common and single administrative structure was an essential reform. However, this combination was not accompanied by the necessary consolidation of rules and interoperability of the computer systems of the former funds. The combination of these factors inevitably led to the current situation. The Ministry of Labour and the administration of EFCA have taken a number of actions aimed at stopping citizens' suffering. More specifically, throughout this period, the Ministry has supported the administration of EVA both in terms of human resources and in terms of logistics. A programme of managers has already been set up, with sole responsibility for coordinating all the necessary actions. EFKA has equipped with three thousand new computers and regional systems to modernise its antiquated equipment. The additional remuneration - what we call bonuses - of employees employed at all stages of the maturation of pension records and achieving specific objectives is foreseen. With L.4798/2021 we have simplified the procedures for successive insurance and new initiatives, both legislative and administrative, are coming up in the field of simplification. Also important are the contribution of certified professionals to the decongestion of the system. Also, let me say, because there has been a lot of talk about the number of professionals certified, that two further training and examination courses will follow, which will also involve many candidates who have attended the first training course, but have not been able to examine the day the tests were carried out on the basis of obligations. Today the seventy - nine who were certified began. On Friday we started our second certification cycle. As EFKA's administration pointed out in its communication, the institution of certified associates came to stay. In addition, for about a month, the so-called EKA control tower has been operating, a modern digital monitoring system in real time of the flow of outstanding pensions. We believe that by monitoring the image of the work, the administration of the EBRD will be able to intervene more directly and effectively where it needs to be done. Mr Mulkiotis, we remain firmly committed to our objective of digitising the insurance life of the pensioners and completing the codification in software of all the rules of the funds that were incorporated into the ECA. In order to speed up the process, it has been decided on the use of resources from the Recovery Fund. You ask me why the upgrade of the software of the FBI is so delayed. As I have mentioned several times, EKA inherited all chronic diseases, administrative weaknesses and dazzling insurance legislation of the existing multiple funds. Besides, as a legal person I think you know these things very well. In recent months, however, significant progress has also been made in this area. Many new software applications have been put into operation. For example, the OGA pensions, death transfers and according to the planning of the ECA in November are expected to be included in the "ATLAS" system and in December the old age pensions of the employees are expected to be introduced, while the Income Pensions of the self-employed will be in place next year. Furthermore, it is planned to computerise the number of legislative provisions to facilitate rapporteurs involved in the work of awarding pensions. At the same time, the design of the creation of fifteen new digital services for e-ECA that will provide solutions to insurance and pension issues, as well as to public benefit systems. The aim is to make two million electronic transactions a month by the end of 2021, compared with a million three hundred thousand now being traded. On the issue of parallel insurance software you mention in your question, as confirmed by the competent director of the EMCDDA is in a phase of analysis of specifications and control of the first scenarios and the corresponding software is scheduled to be put into production before the end of the year. Mr Mulkiotis, under no circumstances can I claim that the problem has been solved. However, the progress that has been made is too great to go unnoticed. To take into account in all this that over the past year and a half, in addition to the particular circumstances created by the pandemic, EVA had to manage at the same time a number of other outstandingities, equally serious, which had to be directly managed, such as the recalculation of pensions and the granting of retrospectives to hundreds of thousands of pensioners. My time has passed. I'm going to continue in my denture and give you accurate figures of the loose ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it really didn't come up yesterday, it's a fact. However, New Democracy has been ruling since July 2019 and so far the loose ends have not even reached a level that can be tolerated. I do not think you are - not you personally, but the government - proud of the situation. The suffering of the citizens continues whether you like it or not. On September 30, 2021, there were just a hundred and fifty-two thousand four hundred seventy nine main pension applications and a hundred twenty-four thousand four hundred sixty-sixteen additional. Add, Minister, about sixty thousand singles and we reach three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding applications for retirement. These figures are undeniably official. I don't want you to question them. Today the outstanding pensions reach about sixty thousand and we do not know where they will arrive until the end of the year. The ball's gone. After the summer's 2020 fiasco on the awarding of pensions by pressing a button, the political position of the project manager - you mentioned it, Minister - for outstanding pensions. Nothing. Evolutions zero. After the amendment of the temporary pension procedure, you promised that instead of getting anything, you would get 350 euros. Fiasco, that too! Invasion for retired people. I'm explaining why I'm saying it. How many pensioners are today receiving a temporary pension, Minister? Answer, twenty - three thousand, fifty - three out of fifty - two thousand four hundred sixty - nine. A percentage of 15.1%. Also, how many people get a pension advance? The evidence we have is twenty-one thousand nine hundred fifty two out of fifty-two thousand four hundred seventy-nine. 14.3%. It is not a solution and you must not be proud as a government. The New Democracy Government ignored our warnings. We said to take those who fired. There was know-how, they knew everything, and now they would have finished the procedures, and they would have gone to a very large percentage. You ignored them, you've left them out, and you're trying to prejudicialize a manager's project. It can't be done! You didn't hire them back, you fired them. Instead of moving forward with the digitisation of the insurance system and simplifying legislation and speeding up pensions, in April 2021, with a last-minute amendment, the Government adopted a allegedly external pensions issue by accountants and lawyers. You saw what happened in the examination procedure on 2 November. A thousand two hundred economists and lawyers, fiasco. Repeat the process, drop the system. A thousand two hundred. Five hundred forty - seven participated, only a hundred seventy - nine were certified. What happened, Minister? You said that before. You realize that this is not the way to solve the problem. Project managers failed. He failed the system for accountants and lawyers. He failed. That's why we're asking if you're gonna hire people. Where's the digital pension promised by New Democracy? Why would you stop her? Why? Isn't there a single government perception? I remember the Prime Minister went and started the system. What happened? Do You Remember? What did he say then? That the pensions are coming out right away. Nothing. Two and a half years now, there has only been direct extradition of pensions due to the death of retired and farmers with the sole vehicle of the OGA. Nothing else. It seems, however, that Mr Brutsis has left the government and forgotten his policy. It's over. But retired people are waiting. Where's this digital pension? There is no, Minister! And the second question, to come up with. Mr President, if you'll excuse me, just a minute. You have answered, indeed, several times about the software process, etc. But, you know, I will point out that both January 2020 and 8-2-2021 again - and I will present them for the Minutes - you have said the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Mulkiotis, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President, but that is the issue. You have said the same thing, Minister. Unfortunately, this is still the case for this software. Is that so hard? Say it's so hard. I believe, however, that the problem you have received continues on the same day. The process is not accelerating. There are such experiments with managers and so on, but the essence remains the way it was. Retired people are afflicted. Unfortunately, Minister, we are hitting the alarm bell. Pensioners are without pension at a very unfavourable juncture and in a very unfavourable economic environment. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, George Karagiannis, submits for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Mulkiotis, I understand very well that the citizens have every reason to be dissatisfied with the delays, and that is why their effective response is a priority for the government. However, contrary to what you are saying, the efforts that have been made all this time - which I referred to in my prototype - have already begun to bring about results. The monthly number of pension awards has increased from ten thousand in 2019 and has already been approached and we hope that this month will exceed twenty thousand pensions and hope that by the end of this year this figure will have reached thirty thousand pension awards per month. I'd like to say two things. One is because I highlight the main pensions. Because you are well aware that, in order to obtain the supplementary or one-off pension - the rates are relatively rapid - the main pension must be awarded. The second is that the only truly comparable number over time is that of pension awards and I will explain why. Now, as a result of the progress I mentioned earlier, and despite the fact that in the last few months we have, in fact, an increased number of pension applications, the number of main outstanding pensions, that is, except those that are international and reckless, that is, those that are in court pending, has been reduced by almost a hundred hundred thousand, which were in the summer of 2019, including those that are still being discovered in wardrobes, drawers and bags, without registration and without protocol number, in just over a hundred and twenty thousand today. So we have a fall in the stock of outstanding pensions by about forty-five to fifty thousand. I should also like to point out that some ninety thousand of the outstanding pensions are under way, while the others are less than three months behind. In some former funds de-escalation is really spectacular. In the former CSAY, over a year and a half was cleared over 95% of about three thousand outstanding pensions for 2016 to 2020. In the former TAN, the outstanding pensions amounted to nearly two and a half thousand, and today they do not exceed seven hundred. In the former CSMEDA, while in 2019 less than a hundred pensions are issued per month, today the average of decisions is in two hundred fifty. In NAT, the average monthly maturation over the past few months has been four hundred ten pension cases a month, while over the past three years it has not exceeded ninety cases a month. So while in 2017 the outstanding pensions to be awarded were about four and a half thousand, they have now decreased by 56%. Now, in relation to your question about the staff of the ECA, as the management of the agency informs us, they have already redistributed the human resources in the context of the implementation of the new establishment plan. At the same time, the recruitment of an hundred and eighty - six permanent officials has been carried out. In relation to former pensioners who have been invited to take part in the programme of speeding up the pensions award of thirty people will take over within the days. The recruitment of a hundred tertiary graduates, mainly economic schools, has also been initiated for 14 months to deal exclusively with the award of pensions. In June 2021, the beneficiaries of the OAD grant programme for employment of eight and a half thousand long-term unemployed aged fifty-five to sixty-seven years were approved to recruit thirty people. And these workers will be employed in the Pensions Departments. Therefore, a number of measures have also been taken at the level of human resources in order to strengthen the ECA in an effective way. Our aim is for the first half of the year to reduce the number of outstanding pensions spectacularly. The commitment we have made is beginning to be implemented and I would like to assure the citizens of this House that we will do our utmost to achieve this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. We move to the sixth Question No 158/8-11-2021 on a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Boeotia, the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the topic: 'Strengthening of the agony of the workers of LARCO'. And that's what Mr. Chacloglu will answer. Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor and I would ask you now to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I think we respect him with gratitude. Minister, I've been waiting for Mr. Hatzidakis to come here today. You took responsibility for this particular issue, because it is not an insurance policy purely. LARCO is - you know - a flagship operation for the national economy. It is a single company in the European Union that produces its own ore, having integrated know-how of a thousand two hundred workers employed there. However, ‘LARCO’ is under a special management regime. You know that. It has been financed directly and indirectly with over EUR 100 million for the first time in its history from the state budget and has received another EUR 140 million from production sales. The factory facilities and mines are stopped, in a non-functional state, abandoned and completely depreciated. I still inform you that 20% that is running today is extremely dangerous and tolerates this Greek State, the state tolerates it, the state tolerates it, the Ministry of Labour tolerates it. This situation is also a risk to the safety of workers. Also with recent publications, the competition is faced with problems as well as with environmental uncertainties. It will go on - it has received an extension - the entire special management process by January. But nickel prices on the world market are the highest in the last decade. And with these prices, the 'LARCO', Minister, could also be repaired and modernised and produce and sell too, too expensive and keep jobs. But the government's political choice is not to produce LARCO, it has led to depreciation. And also in full knowledge of the government - and I would point this out to you, Minister - and the appointed clearer what is happening? There is a loss beyond the last two years that exceeds half a billion while the special administrator is legally obliged to make the maximisation of the benefit of the value and value of LARCO. And while with that logic he has such a responsibility, he does nothing. This is what I think it conceals a lot of issues, but it may be worth there being a court investigation. So far everything has been done and the jobs of the workers have not been guaranteed. We ask, then, what is the government's planning and implementation to ensure the jobs and labour rights of all those employed in LARCO? And how do you plan to settle the issue of the unpaid pensioners of Larco? And what is the government's planning to develop an integrated framework for the production uplift and development of LARCO to continue its operation in line with the possibilities and the specific circumstances as they are? Is there? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, with your question, you are giving me the opportunity to refer, in fact, to an emblematic one - as you mentioned in your question - industry for the productive fabric and the entire Greek economy. LARCO has indeed been the largest ferro-nickel production company in Europe and one of the five largest internationally. Sadly, these belong to the past. Despite all its advantages, LARCO has been in a bad financial situation not today but in the last thirty-five years. This has a particularly negative impact on its shareholders, i.e. the GOI, the National Bank of Greece and PPC, for the workers, for its suppliers, for the environment, for the local communities. According to available financial data, the company's debt is growing continuously month after month, while most of its debts are almost 80% or 363 million, the end of February 2020 relates to debts to PPC, making the company the largest debtor of PPC. At the same time, there is a final judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union on unlawful State aid granted to Larco by the State in breach of the competition rules. The amount of this aid amounts to EUR 135 million. There are also environmental fines of EUR 50 million that have been imposed on the company for the pollution of the Evian Gulf. The above should be added to the fact that the company has not invested at all for several years, resulting in a gradual deterioration of its installations and equipment. The consequence of all these and, of course, of the ineffective model of management and operation of the company is that the company produces at very high costs, which is impossible to cover even at the high nickel prices you refer to in your question. In this suffocating context, the Government has set as the primary objective a solution for this important mining company to continue to operate and, of course, to save as many jobs as possible. That is why we have chosen the special management procedure, as decided by Parliament under Law 4664/2020, namely the creation of appropriate conditions for the smooth and transparent transfer of the company's assets to a private investor - I repeat - in operation. The project is not easy at all if one takes into account the above economic elements and the complex legal situation that governs the company. We believe, however, that the only way to ensure that jobs and workers' rights are safeguarded is a preliminary procedure, as I described it. In this way, jobs can be saved and the serious consequences which would certainly exist in local communities, if these jobs were lost. In order to protect jobs, therefore, the relevant Ministries and the special management so far act in such a way as to save jobs, despite the fact that the contracts of employment are not the subject of a transfer to any investor resulting from the competitive process. There have been several meetings between employees' representatives, the Special Administrator and the relevant Ministries, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So you realise, Mr Mulkiotis, that one of the pillars, crucial to our Government, the entire special management process is to save jobs, since of course the competitive process of divesting the assets of the company is successful and transferred to a private investor and the company returns to a sustainable orbit. In fact, according to the amendment tabled in February 2020, a grant of EUR 52 million to the company's operating costs has been granted to date during the specific management period, precisely for this reason, in order to avoid unsuccessful bankruptcy, i.e. its bankruptcy. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you referred to a history that Mr Hadjidakis has said and became all this history that you said today, in order for LARCO to enter the special management. However, it is not things as they were dramatically presented. Every day's life describes it all. The ore today has the highest price in the last decade and we all sit and look at it and deceive it as a government policy I mean. We deceive her and sit and look at her, because we aim to give her up, save her well. Hey, you can't go to the private! Public wealth, public property cannot go to the private. Minister, it's not just the money you said. LARCO has been directly or indirectly funded with EUR 100 million for the first time in its history and also another 140 million has been collected from the sale of production. At this time, nickel prices are largely the highest prices and we look at them and the government indifferently whistles. That's challenging. There is a loss of revenue from lost production over the last two years. Do you know how much this counts? Half a billion! The workers say so, the experts say so, everyone says so, and nobody speaks of the government. The Government financed LARCO, to maximise - you heard, I said before - the sale price for the public interest. What does he actually do? He's deceiving her. When LARCO does not work, when less than 20% of the production activity is currently under way and does not work, does it therefore give points to optimising the value? No, depreciation. So what's he doing? It's against the law. That is why I said, Mr President, that these are issues which the government knows about, that the administration knows and that there must also be a judicial investigation. It cannot be denounced so that the law obliges it to have an optimal function, for there to be greater practice upwards, to increase the price. You as a multiexperienced judge understand what we call it. The law says that, and here we have different things, and nobody talks. This is provocative, Mr President. It is also characteristic that as far as the old-fashioned iron coming from LARCO to the old-fashioned man is concerned, their current value is more than EUR 150 million. Only the dust mountain - you have heard, Mr President - that exists at the Larymna plant contains thirty-five thousand tonnes of nickel, that is, directly, about 700 million euros. It's a reality. The dust will be given for free to any investor who is public property is our property. Hey, we can't tolerate this! And the government doesn't speak at all. Minister, answer me. You said nothing about jobs. They don't go together, they don't transfer. Really? And what's the Ministry's welfare? How are these jobs planned? It's a thousand two hundred workers, a thousand two hundred families. What are we going to do with these people? How does the government consider this, should they not be safeguarded somehow? How will they live? Because they are in a difficult, difficult situation. I personally think that you understand, but the state, the government, must not take a clear position and say that we are going to do this today? How's it going to happen? The solution, however, with this piece of legislation you said in February last month, with the sale of Larco's assets and the redundancies of workers, I do not think it is a solution. Is that a solution? Is it a solution for workers to be fired? Really? Are we serious? Is this a solution at such a juncture and we accept it? Two and a half years, then, of total depreciation and deforestation of every production activity. No progress has been made for the workers. The only prevention and care is the wish to the new owner "Let's see what will happen if we hire you". Well, that's not a solution, we can't accept it. So, what about the next day? What does the government say about workers for the next day? That's what workers ask. What are we going to do - they say - the next day with the unemployment that will follow tomorrow? How will today's workers face tomorrow? How will they live their families? How will their children study? What will they do anyway? We need to see it. The government does not see this, how these people will walk at such an economic juncture, having lost their jobs. I conclude by asking you, Minister, to specialize and say: 'This is the Government's view of you workers. It is a matter of major importance. It's not words, it's not rhetoric, you understand. These people live in anguish. While they want to work and produce and there is huge wealth, the government sits and looks at them and the Minister talks about deception of the company or anything else and that it is the workers who are to blame. Well, it's not like that. We need to keep an eye on the workers. We need this inspiring material, the most valuable material, the only thing to help it, and we need to take care. This is the situation which must be seen and I would ask the government to respond, Minister. But in particular, say 'we will do this for the workers'. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr Mulkiotis, we have the highest prices in the decade, but we still produce with damage. That is precisely why we need a firm investor to make the company profit after the appropriate investments are made. As I said before, our primary concern is to save jobs. However, this cannot be done if the company does not continue to operate after this exceptional period of special management. If LARCO were to go bankrupt, then the jobs and every right of workers would be lost. In the preliminary management procedure, however, this is not the case. On the contrary, the property of the company is liquid through one or more auctions in order to satisfy its creditors, with the Greek State being in an advantageous position, as the aid in question should be recovered. The special management of LARCO undertakes all necessary measures to ensure the continuity of the operation of the company and the production and extraction of ore, maintaining most of the existing – i.e. before the company is run into special management – suppliers, contractors and transporters, and continuously continuing its deliveries and exports of nickel. At the same time, the divestment of the company's assets is carried out on the basis of the continuation of its main operation, i.e. its mining and metallurgy activity. On the basis of the plan, divestment of LARCO's assets, the new investor to take over the company, will present a viable business development plan, with the aim - as I said in my prototype - that the company enters a sustainable orbit. Mr Mulkiotis, on this point and before I close, I would also like to refer to something that we should bear in mind all those who are concerned with the case of 'Larco'. I referred to the principle of my position on the issue of fines that trouble the company. These fines relate to either unlawful aid or environmental pollution and testify to the multi-dimensional dimension of the LARCO problem. The main reason why the company is in the current situation is precisely this complexity of its problems. The problems do not only concern the Ministry of Labour, but also other relevant ministries, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Energy. In order to achieve the objective of job rescue, it is necessary to find a reliable and serious investor and, until then, to keep the company in operation, even under a special management regime. The aim of the Government is to save as many jobs as possible and to create the prospect of a better tomorrow for LARCO, but also for the local communities affected by its operation. That perspective should be given within a framework that is specific and shaped by the decisions of the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The solution to the problem of LARCO must be legally solid, modern, compatible with European legislation and market conditions, but also fair, for the company itself, shareholders, creditors and, of course, above all, all workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that Mr Ilhan Ahmet's question with number 149/3-11-2021 will not be debated because of the Member's obstacle. Nor will the following topical questions be discussed, after consultation of honourable Members and Ministers, in the following topical questions: H No 146/2-11-2021, or No 152/5-11-2021, or No 148/3-11-2021, No 160-8-11-2021, No 142/1-11-2021, No 147/2-11-2021, No 145/2-11-2021, No 153/5-11-2021-2021 and No 166/8-11-2021. We move to the third under No 159/8-11-2021 topical question from the F Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Restoration of the damage caused by "Janos\" to Karditsa and the flooding protection of the area". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, George Karayannis. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. We are now, Minister, in the second year of the devastating floods of Janus in Karditsa, and no process of restoring these major disasters has begun. For example, in the communes of Russos, Abelikos and Callitheros Karditsas, fields, houses, bridges have been destroyed, due to the overflow of the known stream in the area of Karabalis, which for decades has been amidst this, and at the same time there has been a complete collapse of the bridge that connects the Abelikos to Karditsa, so that the inhabitants of the village of Abelikos use a small bridge at the edge of the village with the village of Kallithero, which has also suffered damage and is at risk of collapse. Also, in the Agiotine villages, Amarantos, Sarantaporo, Neraida, Paleozoglopi Rachoula of the former municipality of Itamos, the hydroformations were destroyed and for some time, especially during the summer season, residents had no water to drink and use. There were also there, of course, landslides, destroyed streets of communication to Karditsa, as well as the interior network of the villages, while the residents of Neraidas from access to the neighbouring village remain, due to the collapse of the hikers and the failure to complete the bridge, which had been destroyed 12 years ago and 12 years ago now its construction has not been completed. Approximately EUR 10 million was granted to a construction company as an advance payment for restoring losses. The residents of Neraidas, however, are informed that the construction work of the road that was commissioned to this company does not include the last part of the route from Sarantaporo to Neraida, so that it poses the risk of being enclosed by the weather phenomena that are under way, because we have also entered into winter. In addition, people were informed that as long as the contractor is executed in the enclaved Amarantos - Sarantaporo, there will be no local bypass, but the communication of the residents of Neraida, which is the last village to the border of Carditsa with Evrytania Prefecture, as well as the communication of Sarantaporos with Karditsa, will be made via Evrytania. They're gonna do a whole circle, the southern ones, to get up north to Karditsa, of course, with what this means in terms of dangers, but also slowness and problems in moving. The questions, therefore, to the Minister, are what the Government's interventions will be to make immediate and complete restoration of all disasters on the road network, bridges and bridges. Accordingly, what are you going to do to tackle the global flood risk across the road? And, of course, we are asking for integration into the overall plan immediately and the sections of the road that are not included in the contractor's plan. What about the restoration of the wetlands in the Agraviotian villages, as I said before? At the same time, we are calling for the creation of modern water infrastructures so that people can have sufficient and quality water for their needs throughout the year. And thirdly, what about cleaning waste water? We ask for the immediate and definitive restoration of natural landslides within the settlements, as well as all other necessary works, so that the villages do not flood again and people and their properties are at risk. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with the question you are asking us because you are giving us the opportunity to remind us of the basic principles of our government's policy on emergency situations, which, due to climate change and chronic diseases in the infrastructure sector, as well as civil protection, require a new approach which is now being implemented with the Government of Kyriak Mitsotakis. In this context, therefore, the political leadership of the Ministry, and Kostas Karamanlis in particular, the Minister responsible for Infrastructure and Transport has proposed four basic principles: the direct mobilisation and presence at political, but also at the service level, at every point in the crisis. The design and implementation of a first package of measures to support local communities. Cooperation - and this seems to me to say, Mr Papoutsis - both with local government, but also with regional and essential aid, even above formal competences. As well as trying to create a long-term plan that will enhance the infrastructure of the affected area as a whole. With this, then, we have moved exactly the philosophy and the restoration of damage caused by cyclone 'Janus' in the wider area of Karditsa and Thessaly, directly, effectively, in collaboration with all the relevant operators at regional and local level and with the allocation of more than 240 million with a project to upgrade the wider infrastructure of the region. In any case and before I make specific references to our actions, I would like to point out, Mr Lambroulis, that although it is not only about the actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, your question expresses an authentic concern to tackle the disasters caused by Janus in the area of Karditsa. And let me say that it also allows for a substantial and creative dialogue that we are always seeking and always seeking. The government has therefore mobilised every service available since the event, so that it directly meets the catastrophes of the citizens' assets and the resulting consequences for the infrastructure in the region. I imagine there is no one in this Chamber who will doubt that we have been there since the first time. All ministries, the Prime Minister himself and the ministers responsible were there and they faced all these big problems that they found in Cardica. The state in the "January" was not limited to the recordings of damage, but by assessing the broadness of the consequences it decided that the rectification of the infrastructure - although it was the responsibility of the relevant municipalities and the region - had to be assisted by the know-how of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. To this end, it was decided specifically on the 'January', and in particular on the affected area of Carditsa, that the Ministry should take the main role and the local authority as a complement. I do not intend - and I think it is understandable to everyone - to reiterate that the competence assigned to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is not about the construction, as well as the maintenance of anti-military works or the cleansing and policing of ramps, which still belongs to the relevant departments in the region, but in this case the Ministry has undertaken something more: the conclusion of a contract for the restoration of the main volume of road infrastructure affected by the 'Januan'. And not only were we confined to this, but we proceeded with the immediate financing of 23 million for all the affected municipalities by "Janus", of which 12 were in the region of Thessaly, which were financed with 1 million euros to restore their infrastructure and six of them in the Cardits Regional Unit. The total amount of the exceptional allowance allocated to the whole of the Janus was 127 million, of which 55 million was for the Carditsa Regional Unit. And we didn't stop here, let me tell you. There was additional funding for municipalities from the Ministry of Interior, which exceeded 37 million, of which the municipalities of the Carditsa Regional Unit received 16.7 million euros plus the 3.5 million received by the Region of Thessaly. And this from the Ministry of Infrastructure. The Ministry of Development and Investment has provided additional funding for the region for the municipalities affected by the ‘January’ with EUR 20,9 million for the implementation of damage recovery projects by the cyclone. I could give you much more information, but I think we have nothing more to add. I would just like you to keep this: only the Ministry of Infrastructure did six thousand autopsies in the houses and we have plenty of applications that go ahead for rent subsidies and housing assistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u59	You will continue with your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, if you will allow me to clarify this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u61	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u62	With L.4753 and the legislative provision we are doing, the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have undertaken specifically for Thessaly, the task of carrying out projects that are the responsibility of local government, and not least in time, and we have committed a EUR 143 million credit. We have completed with absolute transparency and scrutiny and with a decision of the Court of Auditors the competitive process, the contractor's declaration. We have rapidly exceeded all environmental licensing and signed a contract. It is therefore complete to prepare all the studies and carry out all the research and testing necessary to submit to the service for approval for the immediate restoration of eleven road sections of the Municipality of Karditsa, seven road sections of the Municipality of Argithea and ten sections of the Municipality of Mousakio, as well as for the construction of four bridges. It is therefore obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the extent of the damage caused by the cyclone requires the cooperation of the central administration, the district and the municipalities. Of course, at this point - and I will return to my dentistry - let me tell you that separation of competences is a pillar of the Constitution and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u63	Good. Mr President, here you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the government authorities with regard to this question are something that is not our concern. We hear them, we read them, we see them. Politically, we are confronted. We oppose the measures, I mean as a whole, not precisely what you have said. You made a more general reference to what you were going to do or what you did, money, from here, from there. The question is specific, with specific issues, specific problems, which have been reflected in my prototype. I would like you to reply to these specific questions. All right, the millions flew now a while ago. They've thrown several million euros and the others. Are the rehabilitations to be done and when? That's it. Acts count. And from there on, the government authorities, as you mention them, are not interested in telling you the truth. What is of interest to the resident in Neraida is to restore the road network as quickly as possible, to be able to access Carditsa instead of going through Evrytania. From the 'January' and not only the 'January', but also from the total natural disasters known not only in the area of Karditsa but also in general the entire territory, the whole of our country, our people have proved to be and constantly proved to be unprotected against the natural phenomena which, in fact, are expected. Here, too, responsibilities are burdening all governments, like today, who, with their policies, undermine the possibility of planning for the combined fulfilment of all social needs, including, of course, anti-military and protection works, infrastructure projects, bridges and others. This is the case and has emerged with the 'January', as in other parts of the country, as I said, with the floods, fires, earthquakes and others, because all the necessary and necessary measures from the design to the implementation are subject to a fundamental criterion: that of ensuring the profitability of the monopolistic groups. Moreover, all these necessary projects, which could prevent them from significantly reducing disasters, such as in Karditsa, are considered as costs for the State and are, in particular, ineligible projects, as all governments, regional mayors, mayors, i.e. the implementation of the European Union's policy which approves or which finances only those projects that will strengthen or strengthen the profitability of construction or general groupings. The watercourses, the lack of integrated water management in the area of Karditsa, as well as the entire catchment area of the area, as in any other area, show the absence of a comprehensive plan aimed at meeting social needs. Similarly, the absence of elementary prevention measures is the result of sub-funding by the State - because you have of course also referred to the municipalities, regions and responsibilities and goes on to say - about the services and functions of the municipalities and regions on the basis of private economic criteria. So, for example, there may be damage restorations in Carditsa, as mentioned in the question, but will there be corresponding care, planning, organisation of services, with all the necessary personnel, with all the means necessary to prevent similar flood disasters in the future? This means, of course, the creation of necessary infrastructure, anti-military protection, integrated forest management, as well as in the Agrades that we are discussing, the cleaning of forests and forest areas, in order to prevent disasters or to minimise them. We are talking about this because today's urban state shows a great deal of efficiency and ability to fund business groups with billions of euros, to tax the people, leaving the profits of shipowners and industrialists unavoidably to turn against workers' claims and to dismantle strikes. However, it cannot deal with the effects on popular layers of ordinary problems and expected phenomena. And he can't do it because his role and mission are completely different. And see, at the same time that people in the region still count the wounds in all these infrastructure projects - and not only, but even in their homes and property - it has not started and no recovery work has been carried out, as we ask you today. At the same time and with the presence of MATs in the Agraves you have built roads and huge pillars are being set up for renewable energy sources, i.e. wind turbines. At the same time, however, people are seen by the effects of the flood disasters. They have no way to go somewhere. That is why - and I am closing down, Mr President - our people and workers, together with demanding solutions to the increased problems and, of course, the issues arising from natural disasters, need to be tackled precisely with those policies that consider the needs of costs and turn them into investment opportunities for capital in the affected and damaged regions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u66	It's possible in the unwritten...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u67	Yeah, but in the Graphs they knew how to go...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I have to tell you that I have listened very carefully. I also heard your last comment that you said it out of a microphone, but I would like to start my position in a different way. Of course you should be interested in the money allocated to Karditsa, because this concerns the citizens affected. They are concerned with the restoration of infrastructure. It's all about...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u69	Minister, is there a timeframe? When are the projects going to be? When will they be implemented? Will they be implemented in one year, in six months, in two years? Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u70	Allow me. Don't get upset. Don't be exposed, 'cause I've told you so far...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u71	But answer me specifically. That's what the questions are about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u72	If you leave me, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u73	But we didn't come here to disguise a program...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u74	Let the Minister complete his answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u75	I understand that your agony is fertile, Mr Papoutsis, and essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u76	This is what local residents expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u77	And because we want to speak with words, but also with deeds, I will submit to the Minutes - because I did not expect it from you - all the work that has been done, and let me tell you that they have started and, if you like, we can go for a walk together to see how they started and what work has been done. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u78	The other day, I was there!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u79	Secondly, you mentioned - I do not want to mention it, but I find the information you have wrong - that the contractor has received 10.8 million. You're wrong. He hasn't got anything at all. He will fulfil his obligations under his contract and then be paid, as contractually provided. The contractor is there, he has submitted studies, he has started work and for the first time the Greek state in almost a year is there and he is doing restoration work and work. If you've seen this before - I imagine you have a lot of parliamentary experience - I want you to tell me when this thing has happened before. We were there from the first moment, and work started. Now on the issue of competences, I think I have answered you that a parliamentary democracy is being structured and we must respect it. We have all the issues, let me tell you that we will deal with them. Like we donated some municipalities. for restoration measures for both green and for the Health Center for Mussolaki and for all of this, here we are dealing with them also with the great contract that we have made and what the Ministry of Interior and the Infrastructure and Development gave. Our Government does not avoid confronting the problems. It's there, it's handled in record time that this money has been made available for Carditsa and projects have started. That's the reality. You want to see her? We're together. But that's reality, what do we do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the fifth under No 151/5-11-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Radical Left, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It is necessary to maintain the operation of the "15512" telephone lines for the SEA and "19500" for violence against women". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I am watching both the press and the media with your hard efforts to make a promotion to yourself through the new '1555' function. However, the question I am putting forward today has a specific target, and this is about the operation of the Labour Inspectorate. Because '1555', which you so much say will come to resolve issues - of course with high price - does not come to respond to the very specific needs of the Labour Inspectorate, which must have its own complaint centre. It cannot be said that when there is an Labour Inspectorate, which, as it is intended to be, is intended to ensure that labour law is respected in the workplace, that there is some other centre than a number of private employees who are not trained, who are not civil servants, who have not been sworn, who have not been known how and who cannot be managed by any information. If some anonymous complaints are lacking - because, as you know, there is this practice, of anonymous complaints, guaranteed, because most of the time the worker is wrong, and the Labour Inspectorate is, at least it must be on the employees' side - how will we ensure that this information does not reach the controlled company before? Who's going to control these individuals? Or will there be the back desk, which you say, of the active civil servants who will do the job and just for the show and to find a chance to give 12 million for a year? And - Listen, listen! - one of those 12 million, three and a half go for advertising. I wonder what kind of road this Pechas is going on. A direct assignment of 12 million for a job that does not need to be done, which undermines the credibility of the Labour Inspectorate itself. You will tell me: it is another PPP, another attempt to shrink the public. However - and I am ending with this, Mr President - if a complaint concerning DELOITTE comes, the only company that has submitted an offer and received the job, and it is about a violation of labour relations itself, what will the workers of DELOITTE do? Will they refer it back to the works inspector? Do you see how huge contradictions exist in this particular choice? So put back in front of "15512", do not undermine the Labour Inspectorate, let her perform her work and leave him just so much noise to create impressions. We need a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u83	Mr Skourletis, I do not think you have been very grateful to the question that you put, first of all, because the new number, the single number of citizens of the Ministry of Labour, '1555', is a great step forward in the service of the citizens, the workers, the insured, the pensioners, the people in need and the Ministry of Labour. We are going through the age of downloaded phones in a new era, with a modern, European, structured system of citizens' information, with a process that has taken place with the approval of the House, a law, and at the same time it is accompanied by a special provision, which pre-existing the Public Procurement Act and with the approval of the Court of Auditors. Therefore, everything you said in relation to this issue, your position on this part, I think it was absolutely unfounded. But just as unfounded was everything that was said in connection with the Labour Inspectorate. What's actually happening? For many years the Ministry of Labour has had seven scattered telephone centres and other telephone lines here and there, which were supposed to serve the citizens. How much service was shown by the reports of the Citizens' Counselor, who says - and he said to me personally - that for decades we have been the most problematic ministry in terms of the service of the citizen. So we came up with these scattered telephone centres, individual lines, and we join them in a number, which was an old ECA number, so that all citizens remember when they have to contact the Ministry of Labour with which number they communicate, that is, not going right - left, looking for numbers and so on. In this sense, with regard to the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate said that it would include anything concerning the APRC, information and so on, and if there are complaints, which are of course made in the course of the operation of the APRC, it was made clear that these complaints or rather the call to be precise - the call for an analysis of the complaint to the voicemail - the call will be sent immediately to the APRC. There will therefore be no involvement by the telephone operators in complaints. The APRC will continue to have the function it had up to now and the complaints will have the same management as when you were a Minister of Labour. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I would remind you of an example, the example of the OPEKA, which, in the days of SYRIZA, had established a telephone centre in the first place, which had cost less than 1 million. The 12 million you give is pure waste. You walk on the road to opaque and dark assignments as government in the opportunity of pandemic. But this money is not yours, like it's not mine and it's nobody in here. It's the Greek people. You must therefore do as good as possible and the most effective, in terms of product-produced product-management. So you cannot come here and say, why did you admit a moment ago - that the issues concerning the Labour Inspectorate will be referred back to you, how? Aren't they gonna be heard? Aren't they going to be recorded? It is optional whether or not to be recorded. Oh, come on. Get on the phone. I called, and I heard what the automatic voicemail says. So will the complaint be presented, the petition and who will judge? The people who get 586 euros, 650 euros mixed? And how long will they work there, under what employment relationships? Is it possible, then, for such a critical function to be granted to individuals? Eventually, the role of the public, how do you understand it? Just the Army and the Police? Everything else should be referred to the market? So much allergy do you have in a state that has to have strong control mechanisms to keep legality? Does the previous example of the SYRIZA, which, in the days of the government of SYRIZA, recorded a unique record of the Greek state's recommendation in relation to the unpaid overtime, which were ultimately paid for by the fines in enterprises that were never in previous years in the Governments of New Democracy and PASOK? Is that what bothered you? Of course, that bothered you. Recapture the thread as in 2014, which in the name of the memorials, then, decreases, you had reduced - listen, listen! - in the APRC organic position! After all, you have recently shown what your intentions are when you wanted to do this arm, which is integral to the Ministry of Labour, an independent authority. It's not an independent authority. It is a part of a ministry which, since its birth, from its identity, has been in favour of workers from its creation and birth. That is why it is not called the Ministry of Labour. You want to do it. So you say that you are a minister of the employer. But say so directly to the Greek people. And to create a project, you say that we will also put '19500', which is an autonomous European programme, on complaints against women not only in the workplace, but also in violence. Unfortunately, we've been living days where feminine murders have broken record. So what's going to happen there? Will another reference be made directly? So, how do you do it all? Not to mention the experience of EFKA, where most of them are referred to visit the shops. It's not working. As you have not worked on making pensions and getting out about, with the alchemys you have done - this is another issue that we will discuss next time - so now. This is a dangerous waste, which must not be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u87	You're a little confused, Mr. Skourlet. Let's try and get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u88	Let's see!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u89	These are three separate issues. One issue is the question of EIA. I have already noted that, when anyone wants to make a complaint, it says 'I want to make a complaint' and immediately, without discussing the complaint and its content, there is a transmission of the call to the AAR to examine the complaint as soon as possible in accordance with what has happened so far. As in your day, when you were, the same thing will happen. The difference is the transmission of the phone, nothing else, without any discussion. You say 'no', we've made an announcement, that's right. As I know, your name is Panos Skourletis, so do I know what I'm telling you now. Well, one of the prisoners. In that regard, I would like to add that the APR is an upgrade of what we are doing, that it becomes an independent authority. I am pleased - and I have said this in the discussion of the Labour Protection Act - about the confidence you show me and say that especially in the matters of the Labour Inspectorate, I should be head and head. While, otherwise, you don't trust me, you specifically trust me in this particular matter. However, I say to you that it is wrong, because there are occasional complaints, discussions, whispers for the respective ministers and Secretary-General that they are intervening in the EIA, and that is why we have proceeded with the establishment of an independent administrative authority, with all the guarantees that it will operate away from schritology. This is the first chapter in relation to the EIA. Secondly, with regard to the issue you raised next on the '15900' line for complaints concerning violence against women: there is indeed provision on the part of the European Union, and that is why this line remains autonomous, simply because there is the single number of services '1555', we give the opportunity to anyone who gets again to make known that there is the other line, that there is a transmission of the call immediately and there is a service for the citizen in this way. Thirdly, with regard to the costs which you have raised: this is one of the most serious issues of the Ministry, and the corresponding speed and quality of service should be given. There were seven telephone centers. Seven equals about zero, because the result was the downloaded phones, the indignation of the citizens and the continuing complaints, and that is why we did this process which I described, quite transparently, with the approval of the House, with the approval of the Court of Auditors. The contractor became one of the five largest consultancy companies in Greece with international experience. She in turn exploited the three largest telephone companies in Greece. There were no bigger ones. The three biggest work exactly for the public in relation to the Ministry of Labour. That is why we have managed within the first hundred days of operation 84% of calls are answered immediately and the issue is closed by trained telephone operators, only 14.5% of them will go to a support office and still receive answers and only 3% will remain outstanding, but there will be answers there. Again in relation to the cost, you know that in addition to the employees of the ministry, the FBI, etc. apparently helping on their part to give answers, work in front office and support for a total of three hundred and twenty employees of contractors each day and Saturday and Sunday. Excuse me. Make the bills. Pick up their wages. Mind the rest of the costs. See how much the rest of the phone centers cost in Greece and abroad and then you will see that to work...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u90	It's 12, it's not two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Skourlet, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u92	To work at a lower cost, as you say, we would go to wages not in Bulgaria, but to wages in Pakistan. That's your proposal, and that's what you're coming to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u93	Show the wages. Mercy! Four hundred 50 euros a month...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u94	You actually came to tell these people who work and serve our fellow citizens that they should get third-world wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u95	Pakistan, you have made the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr Skourletis, there is no question of dialogue in parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u97	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Skourlet, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u99	That's not opposition. Your question is sponsorship policy to the government, as is the question of other SYRIZA colleagues. Thank you very much, because while we are trying to put a order in chaos and serve the citizens, you have come and become defenders of chaos and then you are also the progressive ones. As far as you're concerned, I'm also in space. I'm so sorry. Your question shows political confusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Eleventh question under number 161/8-11-2021 will be discussed now, second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Cover all the vacancies of the Physical Education course in schools with permanent teachers". The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Makres. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. In recent years living and related to education have seen a dangerous decline in the course of physics in schools, a course of course absolutely essential to the well-being and soundness of students. There is no more tranquil evidence of this deterioration than the significant decline, from the materialisation of the recruitment of Physical Education teachers, whether they are permanent or substitutes. I shall refer to specific figures and a little below. Of course the responsibility is entirely borne by the leaderships of the Ministry of Education and the governments over time who do not hesitate to leave uncovered for months even for full school years organically and functionally vacant gymnasts in schools with that fraudulent method of not updating these gaps. The organic gaps of the teachers of Physical Education, Minister, have been frozen since 2011. Since then, the current realities have ceased to be updated, that is, the school's functional gaps in the needs of physical education, with the result that the image you present for the IP 11's physics sector is obsolete, that it is false and, of course, that it is very far from the current reality. This option of governments not to update the organic gaps of teachers of Physical Education in primary education, secondary education and special education is exploited by the government. He was trained to appoint himself as permanent in the field of physical education only one hundred and two teachers. I repeat the number. One and two teachers were assigned to physical education, when last year's school year became a thousand two hundred eighty-eighty recruits of assistant trainees and there were further two hundred ninety-five departures this year due to retirement. After that, of course, we ask you, Minister, what will you and your Government, of course, do your Ministry, so that you can make the immediate update of all the organic gaps of gymnasts in schools throughout the country all over the range of education? And, of course, what you will do to move on to that necessary number of recruitments of permanent teachers to cover all vacancies which are not few - on the contrary, there are too many - of the course of Physical Education in schools at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u102	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was a terrible impression, Mr Colleagues, that you are talking about minimising appointments of permanent and alternate teachers. I would remind you, as I have answered other such questions and other colleagues, that almost 12 000 permanent teachers were appointed this year after decades. Last year four and a half thousand special education teachers were appointed: the first in educational time. In the current school year 2021-2022, thirty-seven thousand four hundred and thirty-nine primary and secondary education recruits have already been made and all three thousand ninety-five recruits announced last week. That's not on their own. The Minister, Mr Kerameos, made concerted and drunken interventions to the Ministry of the Interior, and we had this positive result. The whole is, Mr Colleague, forty-nine thousand thirty-nine appointments and recruitment of teachers so far. There have now been three thousand forty - nine recruits of assistants. As far as the educational sector of IP11 is concerned, your question is, in total, empty organic posts, as you said, hundreds of two educational branches of IP 11 Physical Education in primary and secondary general education, but you failed to say that for the current school year they were taken as substitutes for them and nine hundred and forty-one teachers of the same industry. In particular and in detail, there were five hundred eighty-two alternates, five hundred five in special education, seventy-seven in Special Education. Three hundred ninety-nine alternates were recruited in secondary education, three hundred three in general education, fifty-six in Special Education. The course of Physical Education, Mr Colleague, as you have said and we agree, is of great importance. It is a physical and mental health factor for students of all levels of education. For that reason, with a ministerial decision, published in 2020, we increased the course hours in the second grade, from one hour to two, and in the third grade from two hours to three, and continue to strengthen by settings included in Article 111 of Law 4763/20 the teaching of swimming in the context of the Physical Education course. In particular, it is foreseen that a decision by the regional training directors may be seconded and partially or totally disposed until their compulsory teaching hours of permanent teaching staff in the IP 11 of the physical treatment for the teaching of swimming are completed. If permanent teachers of this sector are not sufficient to meet these needs, they may be recruited during the year 2020-2021 alternates or hours-time teachers of the same sector, registered in the rating tables of ranking No 4589/19 in their registration order and provided that the subject of the bathing has been proven to have been taught. Finally, and I am closing with this, Mr President, I would like to mention that the Institute for Education, the Institute for Education, has completed the new curriculum of Physical Education for all levels of education, primary, high school. These new curriculum programs, enriched and adapted to modern scientific developments and social needs, are already piloting in standards and experimental schools and from 2023 to 2024 their implementation will be generalised in all schools, while training teachers on them. In my dentistry I will mention other information about the recruitments made last year and this year in order to draw your conclusions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. So let's talk with numbers, Minister. You talked about appointments, about the twelve thousand plus four thousand etc.... What do the numbers say? Last year, last year, you hired about fifty thousand teachers for all the education, assistants. At the same time, they retired at the end of last year’s school year about eight thousand teachers. The total of these numbers makes us fifty - eight thousand. If, as you say, you have hired - and we do not question it - forty-nine thousand alternates, and so, if it is taken away, nine thousand gaps arise at the moment. How do you cover this? What are you doing? Make mergers. Only by the mergers - no matter what you do - the gaps exist and the oxen and you know them very well and you will probably need another cycle, a fourth cycle, the recruitment of substitutes, which is good not to delay. I now come to the question that I raised with our question. It is clear from your theory that you refuse to satisfy this sector's fair request, the right request for trainers, which - you know - is not only fair to trainers, is fair and necessary at the same time for students, for their physical exercise and for their education. You know, Minister, today we live in the 21st century. It is not because of these huge shortages of gymnasts in local, primary and secondary education, the course of Physical Education, the course of gymnastics, that is to say, being abusive by teachers other than this specialty, who, after all, do not have the necessary knowledge of safe sport. We're not in 1950 or 1960. All I have to do is tell you the gaps. For example, I will mention some schools from all over Greece, where gaps are not just gaps of a few hours in some classes, but are missing trainers. Gymnastics class can't be done in these schools. In Serifos, for example, an island here near Piraeus - it is not far away, two to three hours is on board - there is no gymnast either in primary school or in lyric classes. There's no gymnast. I guess they don't need a gymnast there. In the 1st Elementary of Heraklion in Crete there is no gymnast, in the 2nd Municipal Elementary in Tymbaki, Crete, there is no gymnast. In the 3rd High School of Elefsina, here in Attica, they do not have a gymnast at the Primary School of Saronida, here in Attica, there is no gymnast, in the PAAL of Skiathos there is no gymnast, in the 2nd High School of Malakos in Ano Touba, in Thessaloniki, there is no gymnast there. I'm not talking about hours now. It's indicative of the report, the gaps are huge, it's too much. All this tactic of the government and the previous governments, of course, as you understand and worry about and oppose all these people, the graduates of Physics, as they see - and you have just said it - that while last year there were a thousand two hundred and eighty alternate recruitments, this year you said that there were eight hundred forty-one. That's two-thirds of last year. What happened all of a sudden? How have these gaps been covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u106	Nine hundred forty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u107	Nine hundred forty one, we won't grow up now. Again they are less than a thousand two hundred eighty last year. Where did those three hundred seats go? How did they get lost? Where were they hidden? We know. They were also hidden through mergers, but you also hid them from that unacceptable anti-educational, unheard of measure of the increase in the number of pupils per department. And when? Inside the pandemic. In other words, at the same time that parts must be diluted, you are condensing them even more. Of course, something that threatens health and teachers and children and indirectly and their families, as children are also shown by research to be broadcasters. They may not get sick themselves, but they become donors to their homes. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] But it often means pandemic - and I shall close, Mr President, thank you - and quarantine. In other words, physical inertia means a lack of movement, exercise, with what this means for children's physical and mental health. If, Minister, according to surveys over the last decade in our country, the rates of obese and overweight children have increased - one out of four children is in this situation - 75% of primary children are kinetically inactive, they do not have a systematic exercise. If we consider that in 2021 only 7% of Greek primary schools have a closed gym and about 22% of high school schools, we understand what this means to children. We're going to propose to you, even though we're sure you won't accept it in advance. One billion of the four that you give of NATO's war spending, if you would, would suffice to simulate all the thousands of teachers to make not twelve thousand trainers permanent, but fifty thousand teachers. One fry of what you intend to buy and which each one of them costs about a billion euros, would be enough to raise, Madam Minister, at least a thousand modern schools, with their gym, with all the appropriate rooms and infrastructure. Will you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. Good evening from me and a good week. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u109	Good evening and good week, Mr President. Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, you mentioned the forty - nine thousand - nine recruits, but you forgot to add almost twelve thousand permanent teachers. You mentioned a few gaps - and for some I have a primary knowledge and I tell you that the figures are not up-to-date, I am not saying that you are lying - which have been covered by recruitment, which took place last Friday, of over three thousand teachers. Report again the number of pupils in each class. Without waste of time, I will remind you that we are a fourth country, in the OECD countries, in the number of pupils per class. On the average that comes out, I will catch up with you, there has been a separation of remote island areas or large urban centres, far below the European Union's average. It is well known - and we have also discussed parliamentary scrutiny - what the World Health Organisation says about the measures to be taken in order to ensure that there is no spread of the virus. In conclusion, I tell you that schools follow the pandemic, they don't drive it. Where the vaccination is low, more cases are. Where vaccination is high, cases are less. Of the children who are ill, only 30% of them have been sick because of the educational process. I close with this and reply to your question about the distribution of the organic posts of functional gaps to plan the appointments of permanent teachers and of a fixed-term private contract made on the basis of the joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Education and Finance, which determines the number of posts approved to fill by appointment of permanent teachers by industry, specialization or specialisation. In order to share the appointments of teachers in primary and secondary education and in particular in the IP11 of Physical Education, it was decided to approve seventy-six appointments because in primary terms, Mr. Colleague, two hundred fifty organic gaps, but also six hundred fifty surpluses in this sector. In secondary terms, only twenty - six organic gaps have been recorded, which have all been covered. How do you hire them because you talked about freezing? They are based on the appropriately declared functional gaps, i.e. the gaps declared as the law defines the training addresses. This is defined in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 of Article 4 for the determination of the operational gaps in the Ministerial Decision regulating the issues of recruitment and placement of alternates and staff members of special training staff and special assistants. In accordance with paragraph 4 of that Article, the number of gaps to be filled by industry, specialty, educational structure and level of education is approved by decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the basis of the special needs, as well as the approval provided by the Ministry of Finance. In the last four school years, in 2018-2019, four hundred and forty-seven in total, four hundred and forty-five in primary and forty-five in secondary education. In 2019-2020 five hundred sixty-eight in total, of which four hundred eighty-six in primary and eighty-two in secondary. In 2020-2021 nine hundred sixty-three, six hundred and fifty-six in primary and three hundred in secondary. And in 2021-2022 nine hundred forty-one, five hundred eighty-two in primary school and three hundred and fifty-nine in secondary school. I would like to conclude by pointing out that our Ministry's permanent intention is to fill the gaps of the declared and confirmed by the regional directorates for training operational gaps by recruiting assistant teachers and I think we are moving well in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. Let's go to the eighth Question No 155/11-2021 on a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Illegal show with a threatened type of eagle announced by the UAE AEK". Mr Arseni, good evening and good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, are we going to return to the age of the bear dancer? As a child I remember these images. We've left them so much behind, and we've really left them legislative behind. They're no longer forbidden. But I see an effort from some eagle and old age instructors to relegate the spectacle with wildlife. They are now being used and trying to hide behind the backs of the AEK, this sport club with such a long story, the symbol for the refugee, but also the great anti-fascist struggles of its fans. What does Mr. Athanasios say? I refer to his statements. It says that they are legal in Greece, such spectacles with eagles on courtesy. In fact, she closes the eye on people and tells them you know, as Benfika has her eagle in Portugal, may have the AEK in Greece. It does not say that in Benfika and Portugal spectaculars with animals are allowed, while the law in Greece has been banning them since 2013. It also says that the eagles are not related to this law, the recent law that your own government passed a month ago, as it concerns only pet animals. Those were his statements. It also says that in the case of eagles, only the Ministry of the Environment and the Department of Forestry decides. That is why I ask you the question. To be honest, I received a letter from the Pan-Hellenic Philozootic and Environmental Federation and another six organisations dealing with the protection of wildlife. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Little tolerance, Mr President. I know that you have received the same letter and that you have met them. That's why I want you to tell me clearly when Mr. Athanasios says that the law that forbids animal spectacles is not about eagles, says lies or truth? When Mr. Athanasios says that the Hood Department decides whether there will be an eagle spectacle, does he lie or truth? And what's the answer from the Hood Department? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. Good evening, Mr. Amyras, good week. Besides, timely without Amyras, it can't be!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u113	Really! Be well, thank you. Good week. Dear Mr Arsenis, I would first like to assure you and Parliament not only but also all the citizens that the Ministry of the Environment and the Government, of course, have the protection of biodiversity and, in particular, of wildlife as a top priority. I call that an introduction. As a second point, let me say this. Your timely question is about gold years. This is not a golden eagle - without changing the essence of the question - but an abomination. It is important because the sea eagle is an epidemic kind of wild bird in Greece rare, which has 2.40cm wings. It is a jewel of biodiversity, which we have the privilege and joy and the great responsibility of hosting Greece. Also honestly, I will not answer what Mr Athanasios says. I'll answer you. But I'm saying what things have to be like. I do not even know his statements, and I cannot speak in relation to the statements made by the President of the Association of Jerusalem. Indeed, we have seen in the social media, in the social networks of PAE AEK that it plans to symbolically display this sea eagle with a few minutes flight, in the presence of its instructor, at the opening of the new platform of Agia Sophia since the end of next year. First of all, I would like to say that there has been no request from us at the Ministry of the Environment. We've watched the news and placed it. Well, let's see. I'll answer what the law says, not what one or the other says. Is a Greek who owns a species - and indeed rare - of wild fauna? Under conditions, the law allows it. How? The origin of the animal, in the specific case of the seafood, should have been checked, the documents provided for, the certificates of origin issued by the approved breeding operations in accordance with the law and, in addition, the conditions of possession and movement of the animal should be fulfilled and the authorisations laid down for export or movement thereof issued in accordance with a joint ministerial decision valid from 2013. It's the - I mention it for the Minutes - 125188/246. And there must be documents, certificates of movement in the country and occupation. They shall be issued by the competent authorities of CITES. It is the international convention for the possession of such species. In this way we can immediately trace the species and country of origin of this eagle and all other elements to make sure that the legality of the bird's possession and origin has been respected. The Ministry of the Environment - without any formal call to deal with it, but we have also seen it in social media, social networks - and the Department of Wildlife Management and Them of the Directorate-General for Forestry and Forestry called for the control of all the certificates of this sea. The instructor, therefore, of the eagle and president of the Hellenic Association of Jerusalem, presented by AEK in the video, has stated that he provided the eagle from a Czech farm, when the bird was six months old and trained him for about two and a half years. Of course, we asked to check the evidence. The CITES certificate was presented to us for use within the European Union with a number - I will say it - to have it in the Minutes - CZ/JHC/00112/219 concerning a certificate from the Czech Republic for commercial activities for the holder of Mr Milan Zales. With this certificate, therefore, the holder has the right to transfer, move, sell this bird to other people within the European Union. The certificate of this sea eagle relates to a sample with source code C - these are a specific terminology, but I say them to be registered, Mr President - in other words, born in captivity, with a country of origin in the Czech Republic. In accordance with the joint ministerial decision I have told you and with which the CITES Convention and European Regulations are to be applied, this sample of the sea eagle is covered by exemption B2, so it is allowed to be held in our country. So we know that all the legal requirements are fulfilled in its possession. It is legal possession because all the necessary certificates have been issued for use within the European Union. Let's go see a little now, if you're allowed or not allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u114	Should we see it in dentistry, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u115	Oh, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u116	Be well. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u117	Because the Minister has not answered the question at all, if he can, because I have nothing to say in dentistry. He hasn't answered anything. Everything he said wasn't even about the question. Let us move on, so that we can have some content in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u118	Uh, I think he said he's come from Czech with all the legal documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u119	No, the question is according to which law is allowed to use gold-ethers in performances. The Minister hasn't said a word about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u120	I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u121	That is why let us complete the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u122	Well, say, Minister, to facilitate the process. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u123	First we needed to know what the legal framework is. That's why I told you. Let's go now. You said about Mr.4830/2021, as the President said there, for pet animals. Is this a wild pet bird? No, of course it isn't. Mr. 4830 says so himself. In fact, as you mentioned in your question, Article 23 says that each animal is forbidden to participate in spectacles and performances. However, in paragraph 2 of Article 23 in the second subparagraph, note: 'We are not talking about spectacle - with the participation of an animal or animal being authorised by a decision of the municipal council of the municipality to be held'. The supervising veterinarian - says the law - draws up a report before the event, which is submitted to the municipal council before the adoption of the event, and which should form an integral part of the decision of the municipal council. The inspector shall draw up a new report at the end of the event confirming whether or not the welfare of the animals or animals involved in the event has been violated. So, as it is understandable, the AEE AEK should apply to the Municipality of New Philadelphia with the report of the supervising veterinarian and, of course, with the attachment of all the supporting documents I have told you: legal possession, trafficking and so on. They will decide, that is, the municipality. In the event of problems, however, of a legal or other nature, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Interior, that is to say, the three Ministers with special responsibility for these matters will be dealt with. However, under no circumstances will we allow the illegal use of wildlife. The same applies to AEK. As you mentioned, six years ago under corporate social responsibility strengthened the Greek Ornithological Society for the Protection of Eagles within our country and a few weeks ago we saw the AEK players enter the puppies court by sending a message on the adoption of stray animals. Both the AEK and its spectators and fans and everyone like the Ministry of the Environment in no way would we welcome any move that would cause abuse or torture of any animal. Now in relation to the law on the priesthood, if the President permits me, I will reply to you. Because you've confused two things. The law on priesthood has nothing to do with what we are discussing today. It's completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u124	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. In other words, you tell us, Minister, that the interpretation of the law in Article 23, which provides for the use of each animal in spectacle, if you are authorized by the municipality concerned, is permitted. That's what you're telling us. You're telling us that if anyone gets permission from the municipality, they can use animals in the show. That's what you're telling us. In other words, let me understand, we read Article 23 which says that the use of animals in spectacles is forbidden, but it is interpreted by the Government that if there is a permit from the municipality concerned, the use of animals in spectacles is permitted. That's what I understand, right? Because that's what people are listening to right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u126	We'll have to get permission first from the municipality. That's what he tells you. The law says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, that's what I'm trying to understand. That's what the Minister said clearly. Once you get any permission from the municipality, you can make animal spectacles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u128	No spectacles, no events.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u129	Events with animals you say. I mean, if tomorrow the Delfinari has, based on the site, certificates to have dolphins, he can perform on animals if he gets permission from the municipality. That's what you're telling us. No show, no event. Is that what you're telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u130	No, of course not. Can I speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u131	Then, Minister, let my colleague finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u132	What the Minister tells us is shocking. It changes all the case law that we have in Greece for over ten years since almost the time of the bear dancer as regards the animal performances that the Minister tells us about. So what I denounce is true. At the moment, every event with animals in Greece, as Mr Amyras said, is legalized, so is interpreting the law - to allow the municipality concerned. Is that true, Mr. Defyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u134	Mr Arseni, read the law. That's not what Amyras says, the law says so. Read the second subparagraph of Article 23(2) of Law 4830. It is the follow-up to the article you mentioned, and I mentioned that the displays and performances of wild animals are forbidden. It's over and out. They're forbidden! Nor did you say in Delfinarias, although these have also been abolished by law in Greece. We're not going back. The law says that for an event which, possibly, has a social or other interest, this municipal council will judge by decision and a report - of course, first of all - of the supervising veterinarian. If we see that it does not make a definitive decision of the municipality or that there are conflicting things there, of course we will be intervening. But I told you what the law says. The law allows an event, for example, with the participation of a jar. He doesn't allow educational performances, he doesn't allow performances. So that's the law. Above all, however, do not confuse the law on priesthood with the law that allows the participation of wild animals in events or, in addition, does not allow for spectacles - and well does - and shows with wildlife. For the hierarchy you told me, I've read a lot. Apparently people don't know, they haven't read. What, then, does the law in which we signed a joint ministerial decision with the co-legislative and conciliatory ministries? To allow what? The use of predatory priests to regulate species of fauna in airports, in urban areas, in rural or forestry areas, in green urban areas, to address damage and risks caused by an increase in the population of certain species. It's not about the law of predatory priests in court in the presence of viewers. The law doesn't allow each other to take the hawk and go take one action on his own. There is a law, there is a strong legal framework that defines these. And I say again that we in the Ministry of the Environment are here to defend the safety of life and the non-exposure of any member and atom of wildlife. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u137	No, you can't. Whatever it was to ask, you asked. I didn't make it either, to be honest. I deplore Mr Athanasios - not the present - who has saved many lives of birds, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u138	The Minister replied about traditional customs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u139	But the procedure is so that I can't do anything, I told you. Come and tell him in person. We move to the twelfth under number 164/8-11-20201 on a topical question for the second cycle of MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios (Nashus) Athanasios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘When do you intend to restore the Area of Uncontrolled Waste Disposal (HCDD) to the protected wetland of the Egyptian Gods in the Brexiza area of the Municipality of Marathon?’ Mr. Athanasios, good evening, and good week.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u140	Good evening. After a year and a half of suffering and enquiry, Mr President. Minister, you are in a ministry that not only respects the environment, not only does it abuse it, but it has come to bear and conceal landfills, garbage sites in the archaeological sites. That's the direction I don't know if I'm gonna be able to make that clear. I'll try, though. On March 28, 2021, I filed a 20-page report with thirteen photos. Did you read it? It's not a feather. It's evidence, it's documentary, it's recent photos. This is a letter of protest from the people of Marathon, which contained these photos. The material proves that the municipality of HIDA for many years in the protected wetland of the Holy Egyptian Gods, in the position of Brexiza of the Municipality of Marathona, has not been restored despite the relevant decision adopted by HYPEKA in 2014. Snobbler, she responded to me by a staff director, Mrs Arfanakos, who says, after five days' delay, that "there was an autopsy of three-member committee from the Attica Region and the Municipality of Marathon", in the absence of archaeologists. And in practice, these officials say: "All space has developed vegetation, resulting in natural restoration of the CID and assimilation to the nearby natural environment". Weeds, i.e., covered our processions, and HRD was restored as a miracle. Bazaa, ruined buildings and asbestos remains, which reach a height of five meters - here are the photos, five meters! -, with building, they filled the grass and the HRD was restored. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You said, in fact, that this opinion was sent to the Directorate-General for the Environment of the European Commission, and accepted it and reduced the fine by EUR 40,000 in the six months. That's how you let me know. So where is oil and misery? These people went, the tripartite committee from Attica and the Municipality of Marathon, and said the weeds that came out, restored the natural environment. They hid the buildings that reach the five-mile double-storey buildings. But - and here, too, we need to bring back an anthem to the East Attica Antiquities Agency - the EGC also does on-site research. And what does it say? Be careful, we are talking about a ministry, the Ministry of Culture, which opposes the Ministry of the Environment of the same government, the famous Mitsotakis government. It is written by the Antiquities of East Attica: "Although the vegetation that has been developed in the area of HSY, as described in that practice, has covered waste ranging from half to five metres and a quantity of eighty-five thousand tonnes in no case can this volume be assimilated from the natural environment of a priority wetland such as Brexis, nor be included in the declared and institutionalized archaeological site of the same area." That is to say, a commission from the Municipality of Marathon and from the district goes on to make the "oil" and restored. You take the document of this 'oil', you send it to Brussels and the fine is reduced by EUR 40,000. But there are some residents who have appealed to the European Ombudsman at risk of Greece facing new sentences. In addition, the Ministry of Culture, which has occasionally been informed seven months after the autopsy for its result, calls for the withdrawal - Mrs Mendoni your colleague - of any action that perpetuates the presence of waste in this unique archaeological site. Look, here we have a corpse and your department's coming in and he tells me that this body is alive. So, are you gonna accept the facts, or are you gonna snore me, like you've been snooping me for a year and a half when I'm giving you pictures?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Amyra, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the Ministry of Environment and Energy always moves with a double target: to protect the natural environment, the diverse ecosystems, the living organisms and to upgrade the environment as many areas as we can. So the issue you raised in your question is indeed important and the truth is that since 2007, when the HSY ceased to operate, there has been no comprehensive environmental upgrading plan for the region in Brixesa, Marathon, which includes an archaeological site with the Holy Egyptian Gods. This is a reality and the purpose is to see together how to deal with it and reverse it by unpleasant opportunity to make it an opportunity for the region. They've been gone for fourteen years already. Of course, we have not seen any particular fighting since the previous government handled the issues of the urban environment or the perimeter, but what do you mean that a three-member committee that you say made the 'oil'? I don't want to use such expressions. I don't know how you guys use them. What kind of "oil" do you mean? What did the members of the committee who went to check that they had been restored not from the Marathon Municipality and the region? They had an interest in doing something backwards from reason? I don't think so. Otherwise, you could tell us the interest. So we sent that to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because this procedure. It was sent to the European Commission for examination and evaluation, and the Directorate-General for the Environment of the European Commission accepted this practice as evidence of the restoration of Marathon's HSH and therefore reduced the fine in our country by EUR 40,000 in six months. The Ministry of Culture, through the Department of Antiquities of Eastern Attica, has been constantly seeking to remove and close - which, of course, closed - this illegal HRD in the area of the former helical of the base. I agree with the Ministry of Culture, with the need to protect and promote this archaeological site of the Holy Egyptian Gods. The volumes of passive materials and are visible through the eye when the mono-year polar vegetation falls, retreats. That's not a natural restoration. I'll tell you in my denture what we're going to do about rehab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u144	Look, here we have to have specific answers. You are right that in 2007 in the Prosecutor's Office of Athens, the East Attica Antiquities Agency filed a complaint against everyone responsible for the illegal storage of solid waste in the archaeological site, judging urgent and immediate need for its complete restoration. How many years have it been since 2009? This is where a subject is born. What has Greek justice been doing since 2009 for this environmental crime? And now I specifically ask you this: You have a 20-page report with evidence, with thirteen photos. And now you're telling me that you're going to tell me a program for the marathon road and throw the ball into the net. Look, specific answers are needed. There's a dump. Are you questioning him or not? The photos I took and showed you are fake? You have to blame me for that thing. If you don't question it, tell me what you're going to do specifically. You're a special minister right now. You need to give answers. The Ministry of the Environment pollutes this way of an archaeological site. How much worse can it look? I can't imagine anything worse. Are we going to theorize or escape in here, through this three-minute direction, where a subject cannot be raised and answered? I would therefore ask you for a reply to these questions, because one and a half years' work will be spent in a three-minute period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I disagree with you, Mr. Athanasios. We are not coming here for three-minute shows, as you have said, and for you to be able to develop this important issue, it is not a spectacle, but a essence of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u147	Yeah, but I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u148	So, please, I don't know why you're so insulting and acidistic about a function in which you're participating and raising an important issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u149	May I have an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u150	But let's actually go. The Ministry of the Environment has signed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u151	You're exploiting that I can't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u152	Do you want to hear or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u153	Here's the director.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u154	Anyway! The direction is those krone you pulled out. Are we talking about the substance or not? All the others, that is, that they are obsolete or that they are committing a crime by the Ministry of the Environment, that is what I give you. The sight is yours exclusively. To talk about the substance, why is everything else 'watch and perfume'? The point is, therefore, that the Ministry of the Environment has signed a contract with a contractor to examine the possibilities, with funding from the Green Fund, for upgrading the classical marathon route and other proposals, in order to highlight, upgrade the space and restore it, where it has not been restored. In particular, we are considering with funding the specialisation for upgrading projects in various areas along the marathon route, including, above all, the Ellos of Brexisa in Marathon, so that we can raise the habitat environmentally, highlight the archaeological site of the Egyptian gods and exploit the area that is an American base. We're in full cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, where you're going to put us across from one Ministry. No, hand - hand, hand! We know very well where there is an environmental problem, where there is cultural potential and we are fully in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Municipality of Marathon. Of course, we are also in cooperation with the region, so that what I have just said to you, and that is something you have not done in the four and a half years. I don't like to say what you did or what you didn't do. But that acidity of yours now! Five years, couldn't you pick up a phone number for your Minister of Culture and the Environment? You had plenty there! But we are doing so and you come to judge us a long time ago when we are going to have moved on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, can I just speak for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Athanasios, no. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u157	Is this a function? Four questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u158	What can we do? That's the procedure, Mr. Athanasios. What am I supposed to do? So he answered. He's signed, he said. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u159	That's why I talked about directing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u160	I'm sorry, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u161	The Rules of Procedure shall, if the Minister agrees, allow me to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u162	No, Mr. Athanasios, I'm sorry. The bad news is, I got involved with two excellent former journalists! We now go to the next, the thirteenth, with number 165/8-11-2021, a topical second-round question, the Hercule of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Integration of the earthquakes of vast areas into a programme of energy clearing and integration of buildings to be rebuilt in the "Security at home" - The "Feed" of current accounts'. Mr. Kegeroglu, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the 6 Ritchter earthquake of 27 September hit the wider area of the Municipality of Minoa Pediada and Asterousia - Arhanas. There has been a long period of July 4 that we actually had. The vibrations continue and we hope they are metastases that extremize the phenomenon. Fifty villages have been hit to a maximum extent - some have been levelled - but also large towns, cities. We should therefore see overall through organised reconstruction how to create more energy-driven buildings and, of course, how better conditions are available with public spaces and more in the case of settlements that have been levelled together. We are not talking today about the issue of the spatial plan and local planning that it needs, we will only discuss the issue of the energy restoration of buildings and of course about the issue of ensuring energy for earthquakes, which have of course been affected not only in their homes, but also in their shops, in their business, their lives have been overthrown. So what I'm asking you is if, first of all, you give business a direction, and if there is to be an energy production regulation, they can freeze the electricity bills. There is no economic possibility for earthquakes to pay. Secondly, there is a need to ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity and in the middle of the winter that there is no such interruption to anyone. Of course there are issues on the ground. We are now going to reconstruct and at the same time to ensure energy in the wake of the earthquake. We have about six thousand houses that have been affected. Many of them want fundamental rebuilding, new buildings, that is to say, about 30%. The rest is repairable. We believe that, for all of this, the support that is in place should be given, as an exception, to 'I save myself at home'. 'I save at home', 'I save - I autonomous', as it is now called - will be a significant improvement in the energy situation of buildings. That will be positive. And, of course, we must see how, through an energy clearing process, either through the energy community or through other bodies, we will ensure cheaper electricity for the whole affected region, which will be a very positive support for these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Kegeroglou, your concern for those affected by the great earthquake that struck September in Crete and especially the Prefecture of Heraklion is perfectly understandable. Just the same interest and the same agony we all share, and that is why the government quickly showed reflexes and so just a few days after the earthquake there was a series of measures to support the people who lost their homes and the entire population in the region. I would remind you that one of these measures was to provide housing assistance to citizens and businesses to restore buildings, which is made with 80% free state aid and 20% interest-free loan with the Greek public guarantee. There was also the provision of first aid for housing assistance through the arogi.gov.gr platform for earthquake-stricken households and businesses, i.e. 14,000 euros for buildings that have been completely destroyed, 8,000 euros for buildings which have suffered serious damage and are temporarily non-resident, 3,000 euros for buildings that have suffered slight damage but are residential. In addition, we have had the provision of compensation for households and for the first needs of households through the platform, EUR 6 000 to houses which have been completely damaged, EUR 4,000 to houses which have suffered serious damage - I will also come to energy, but I would like to have an image, Mr Kegeroglu - EUR 2 000 to dwellings that have suffered damage but are residential, exemption from HNPI for the years 2021, 2022, 2023, a grant of professional and rural businesses for damage to buildings, equipment, raw materials, goods and damaged vehicles, a suspension of all certified, outstanding tax and insurance obligations for six months, a rental subsidy to cover the costs of housing permanent residents. Of course we have supported the municipalities, the local authorities for immediate needs. I come to the issue of energy, of course. The question of electricity accounts is really very important, very serious, given that our global energy crisis is of concern to all and of course much more to the inhabitants of earthquakes in greedy areas. Apart from the fact that we have immediately created the new fund for the energy transition, which includes a subsidy policy on electricity tariffs, households and small and medium-sized enterprises, until the grant of the heating allowance and action to energy poverty, which have today opened up programmes, there have already been EUR 500 million in order to deduct the bills so that the burden is extremely low for consumers. Beneficiaries of these subsidies are all low-voltage consumers. PPC, as a supervised body by the Ministry of the Environment, already has a policy of arrangements and takes into account the specific characteristics of the various consumer groups. However, more specifically, for the people of Heraklion since the 27 September earthquake there will be special regulation. This regulation will provide for the favourable treatment of our fellow citizens, both in terms of their energy rights and the non-issuance of PPC's accounts. The rest of the "Security" I'll tell in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u167	Both PPC and other providers should suspend payments similar to that decided by the Ministry of Finance for VAT and other tax obligations for a six-month period. Of course, at the end of the six months, there can be regulation, or it can be done now, but with a period of grace in the semester, in order to be able to pay back. This must be done more specifically, regulation at any time in the six months, starting after six months in order to be able to repay in instalments that will be specified by all providers. The second is to see indirect aid for them through energy compensation. Energy clearing can first of all be achieved in wider social groups through energy communities, it can be done anyway. It is an important aspect in the institutional framework, which I do not know in how many cases it has been implemented so far. In the case of seismopaths, however, I think it is necessary to do so, since the government had recognised the enormous increases that have been made in electricity tariffs and tried to support the lowest equivalents and weaknesses so that they could pay these arrogant bills. It is good for this first aid, but it is not enough if the causes of the crisis that lead to an increase in tariffs are not tackled, if there is no substantial intervention by means of energy offsetting, that is to say, earthquakes that are greedy through an energy community that will provide them with the current through energy offsetting at urban level. If that doesn't happen, they'll be in trouble next time. So it's something we need to see. We have, of course, discussed this with Mr Skreka, and we have also called for a meeting to complete the proposal from the energy community 'MINOA ENERGY', which is active in the region and which is multi-participating, is a popular base, are two municipalities, the region and about two hundred private individuals. This is something very important and we need to do it, even pilots, to see how this can be extended. But for the "EXOCOCONOMO" - which you did not answer and you will answer, it is a question of your object, as a ministry, of course, not of the Infrastructure I mean - the Ministry of Infrastructure has made some sums together with the Ministry of Finance, but, if I tell you the cuts, you will see that none of them in the theoretical. There's a hundred-five-square cutter. I mean, if you have a home, a store and a warehouse, you don't come in. For up to a hundred and fifty squares, you're going in. You're going to how high? How's the height set? Based on the manner in which ENVY was calculated. Since it is not in the system of objective values, the area is defined in a way that actually gives a lower amount than necessary to be rebuilt. So there must be a separate binding programme for the energy upgrade of the buildings that will be built, and that is nothing but the 'EXECONOMOS - AUTONOMOS' itself, which goes glove. At the same time, it must function with the aid we give in all cases where there are reconstructed façades, which are reconstructed in a building and, as I have said, most of them. Leave the buildings in the first place. We also have the old buildings that will be repaired, which are about four thousand buildings. Not everyone will want to get in, obviously, but two - three thousand buildings - houses that will ask for them must be additional, out of competition and competition and, above all, be able to join. The earthquake houses, i.e. which will be rebuilt to enter, if requested, the program "EXOCONOMO - AUTONOMO". There's nothing better to do for this place through this program that stays. Otherwise, the sums, because they are too small, will lead to cheap constructions, energy buildings, and so we will make a hole in the water. They'll try to put a tiles on people coming under and don't give proper importance to energy. This is very important and I would ask you to consider it with due care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr Amyras, the proposals are many. I'm listening. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be shorter. Mr Kegeroglu always comes up with evidence and suggestions, so I will reply to him that we welcome the proposal of the energy community, as you said, which has been addressed to our Ministry. They should come over and discuss their proposal. That's the first. The second is that none of our fellow citizens, whether they belong to earthquakes or not, will be left behind, we will not leave him helpless in this energy crisis. The first samples of writing have been seen by you. You said that you recognized them as positive too. And of course, they're not the only ones. There'll be more. In relation to your question about subsidizing seismics from the program "EXOCONOMO" funded by the Recovery Fund to say that the program of course aims to optimise the functional energy profile of residential buildings by financing renovations related to energy efficiency. In fact, it stimulates private buildings for measures to save energy in buildings that are legally in existence and are used as a main housing, i.e. houses, individual apartments, apartments, apartments, with a view to upgrading them by at least three energy units and categories, in order to reduce their energy needs and the consumption of conventional fuels and thus to move to an energy-efficient home. At the time the coverage of all buildings in an area from the "EXXOVO" in its existing form is not possible due to the limitation of resources, but also to the terms and conditions that you mentioned. In any case, then, what I am telling you on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment is that we will examine all possible financial instruments to meet the energy needs of our earthquakes and our affected fellow citizens. What we did in northern Evia to alleviate, support and encourage people to continue their lives and move forward, so we will do for the earthquaked areas of Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The first question with number 90/6-10-2021 will be discussed with the question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Florinas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theopportunities (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Availability of network to connect energy communities to lignite areas". Mrs. Perka, good week. You have the floor for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u171	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you. Minister, apart from earthquakes, firefighting and all other things, there is a western Macedonia and Megalopolis. You are attempting a frustration, you have announced, without having taken any care of either elementary or elementary planning. We know that energy communities are about energy democracy, pluralism, decentralisation of electricity instruments. They were established by the government of SYRIZA, which specifically for the lignite regions had foreseen specific funding for the energy communities under the National Fair Transfer Fund, the first in Europe, implemented in 2018. Projects and actions to be financed included funding of sustainability and technical development studies of energy communities. Although the current legislation sets out a specific framework for a prioritisation for RES and STHS stations, and in particular for lignite areas, it provides for a specific priority list with the establishment of a special group of examinations of the region's applications for treatment, it appears that the Government does not support the energy communities. It took two years of strong criticism, of continued interventions for the inclusion of energy communities in the government's planning for liberation. Neither in the territorial nor in the master plan nor in the Recovery Fund was there any talk. Also, funding from the Green Fund for energy communities has been frozen for two years. At the same time, in recent years there has been a great deal of activity in the region of western Macedonia, but also in Arcadia, with the aim of participating in the energy transition of local communities for public purposes. They are typical of the examples of energy communities created by the municipalities of Kozani, Florina and Prespes, the first network of non-profit-making energy communities ‘Offlos’. The first application was also submitted by the first energy community of citizens with virtual energy offsetting, ‘Virtual Net Metering’. The Region of Western Macedonia has established an energy community in cooperation with thirteen municipalities and the University of Western Macedonia and will do TEI. Eighteen energy communities have been established in Arcadia, one of which in the Peloponnese region and the municipality of Megalopolis participates. While there is so much interest in energy communities that local communities are actively involved in the energy transition and accept it and benefit from it, there is still a great problem. They can't connect to the network. But the connection is also a prerequisite for these projects to be implemented. Minister, this is a serious matter. You announced defoliation without taking care of anything. Kozani, Ptolemais, Amytino, Florina, Megalopolis collapse. Unemployment and despair are healing. That is not the way to make a fair transition. And it is not possible for a tool to involve and diffuse the benefit, such as energy communities, to be unable to connect to the network. Moreover, if these projects are not linked, so they are not implemented, there is a serious risk that European technical funding will be absorbed. So I ask you, is there an electrical space available in lignite areas for the installation of small photovoltaic stations? If there's any, how many MW of such works can be connected? Secondly, if the existing network is saturated and the projects of the public-private communities, OTAs, etc., cannot be linked, what actions do you intend to take to support in practice the implementation of these projects? There is provision in the planning for a fair transition of ESDC - FYROM. There are many texts to upgrade the networks in lignite areas and create new substations. Finally, will the financing of energy communities in the lignite regions be triggered? When and with what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs Perka, the Government and the Ministry of Environment and Energy, through specific acts and legislation, have shown our interest and the provision for the development of non-profit-making energy communities, both through financial support, as well as through investment in the creation or upgrading of networks and other infrastructures, in order to directly meet the expected increased energy power in line with the characteristics and capabilities of each region. As far as your first question is concerned, a fair transition is made by means of a project, with resources and, of course, with every opportunity to involve local communities. So what you said does not apply, according to our knowledge and experience. That is why I would like to mention once again the main objective of our Government and our Ministry for the development and penetration of renewable energy sources on the one hand, including the storage of clean energy, as well as a stimulus to the role of energy communities. Let's go to the energy communities now. In recent years, over 50 MW of the saturated network of the Peloponnese were integrated into the network of sixty two power plants in western Macedonia. The information I am telling you relates to projects that have received a definitive link or have already signed a contract of association with the network or are already operating. The available electrical space is constantly changing and impaired by the linking of new RES projects and is increased by the implementation of core network infrastructure projects where possible. Thus, for example, in western Macedonia, a 240 MW increase in the current 76 MW margin for RES stations is expected in the next five years, thus reaching 316 MW. In addition, this year's Law 4819 gave further scope to saturated networks. In addition to these projects, however, provision is already made for the connection of RES stations to the network provided that all the energy produced is consumed without being channelled to the network, provided that specific technical conditions are met. Regarding specific cases of energy communities with the participation of municipalities, I mention, for example, that the case of an energy community of the Municipality of Kozani which has recently received final offers of connection for six requests is a total of 6 MW. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I also note here - because you refer to it in the timely question - that so far no requests for energy communities from the municipalities of Florina or Prespes and from the University of Western Macedonia have been submitted, nor requests for energy communities called 'Offlos'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. Mrs. Perka, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u175	Look, because I am MP Florinas and I live in the area and beyond these energy communities that I mentioned in principle, because it is very important, there are people who have entered "EXOCOCONOLO", they have put photovoltaics on the roofs and cannot be connected. There are small businessmen who can't connect. If I keep from your answer that the networks will be upgraded, it is good. But can I tell you something? First you upgrade, first you look at your needs, then you're liberating. Let's not talk about the resources. Because you're saying there's resources. Well, there's not enough resources. Our country is ninth in the allocation of resources on the basis of all the elements we have from Europe. However, because you have referred to the recent legislation, I will say this: the great thorn for energy communities of mutual interest is competitive procedures. Mr. Hatzidakis came and imposed competitive procedures for all energy communities. This article must be removed immediately. Here is the example of Germany, which conducted such an experiment in 2016 and the energy communities came out outside, and it is the only way, the only tool, for society to participate in the energy transition. As far as the electrical space is concerned, I will insist. There isn't. Take out an announcement that we are going to extend it, do these projects, I hear them positively. It is unfair for this problem to remain available for the development of small RES projects. And tell us how you think about a fair transition. It is important for residents to be accepted to be involved in this production of energy. I mentioned for the little ones, it's paradoxical, it's injustice. But I would like to ask you something else, Minister. Are there any connection commitments from large-scale investors that are unfair to local electricity generation? And I want you to answer me directly. Because on the one hand we see PPC planning large photovoltaic parks and there are various investors in the area and renting the fields at excessive prices, and on the other we have residents and energy communities with virtual netting cannot connect to the network. The other issue - and very serious - is funding. These kinds of projects you know that they can't easily have bank financing. We support the call for an integrated financing programme for energy communities and virtual net works in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, and of course we expect to see how they will be financed from the funds of the new programming period and when you will finally unblock those resources of the Green Fund that we have committed. Of course - I should like to say this - because you have also referred to previous answers, I would like to say to you: the SYRIZA government without having been impoverished had set 6% of the National Fair Transfer Fund - the first in Europe, I insist - and Mr Hatzidakis has taken it to 1% and Mr Skrekas comes and takes it to 4.5% and celebrates it. Now it had to be doubled by 6%, except that this fund will also be missing funds that will go on the question of accuracy, for which the government is responsible, and it also covers those responsible for this accuracy. Listen a little bit, in Europe, in northern Europe, in Denmark, in Germany, wherever you can see, the energy communities have taken off, and we are still talking here about formal issues and begging for a little space available and a little funding. You're planning without local communities. You ignore them. You want the entire transition from two to three major investors. We insist and say that we ensure an area of natural and electrical electricity and that financial resources are provided for their development in the lignite-mining zones - because, also in spatial planning, society is outside - to provide space for local society, for local authorities' energy communities. What is being done is unacceptable. Not only is the transition not fair, but you are at risk of the entire history of the transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Two points I would like to make: the first thing I have kept and noted is that the Government is in fact responsible for energy. You realize that doesn't work. International energy crisis is, but do not drift away from such remarks, because you will remind us when you said a few years ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u178	And in 2020 we were first. Prices collapsed and Greece was the most expensive one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u179	He didn't interrupt you. Let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u180	Regulated market.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u181	Please, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u182	You remind me, and I will say it again now, when a few years ago - in relation to the Greek Government's supposed responsibility for the global energy crisis - said SYRIZA 'We will change Europe, vote for us' and change the country's lights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u183	Aren't we first at the electricity price?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u184	Please, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u185	I am pleased that you, too, are finally aware of the fact that we are Europe and there are our natural alliances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u186	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u187	Yes, of course, but we have lived many indescribable times over SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u188	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u189	Why are you upsetting me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u190	From Venezuela, I don't know where you were taking us. The Ministry of Environment and Energy is constantly considering improvements which will enable the role of energy communities to be strengthened, as well as the financing of projects implemented by them, energy communities, within the framework of their responsibilities under the ESDP 2021-2027 programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u191	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u192	The aid and the upgrading of electricity networks and the construction of new substations in order to enable the installation and operation of RES is a priority for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The funding of relevant projects including many projects in lignite areas is eligible under NSRP 2021-2027 and in particular the Environment and Climate Change Programme, as well as the Fair Development Goal. They're set. There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u193	I know. You didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u194	Let us also mention that in the wider region of Western Macedonia, development projects of the system are already planned, or are to be included in the 10-year programme for the development of IPTO, with a view to dramatically increasing the possibility of integration of RES stations. I will give you two examples: the upgrading of the loop between Florina 1, Florina 2, Ptolemais and a high-voltage Melitius centre, with a view to the completion in 2026, the installation of self-transformation of 400/150 KW in kits in the area, i.e. in the heart of Amyntheus Melitis, of course and Agios Dimitrios, which will be included in the programme under way in the period 2023-2032, which will be put into public consultation by the end of next month. Furthermore, the Green Fund, through the special transitional programme for defoliation, implements programmes for direct support for energy communities of EUR 2.5 million. The programme concerns funding energy community support actions, EUR 1 million, and the financing of pilot projects, EUR 1.5 million, which will also lead to other projects, of course. Finally, the technical guide from the CFP has been completed and delivered to the Green Fund. So the programme notice is expected by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, too. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-15-S1-commons.u196	With the consent of the House at 20.13' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 16 November 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) the financial management of the House, according to the special agenda; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle and the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Principle of legislation on the protection of antiquities and of cultural heritage in general".
