ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 14-4-2021, the minutes of its PRID meeting, Wednesday 14 April 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Internal Audit System of the Public Sector, Intellectual Property Adviser to Public Administration and other provisions on public administration and local government’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of Ministries of Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks and other provisions for strengthening development'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 April 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the following proportion: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the JRC, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. A teleconferencing service shall also be proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the ratio above. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u4	You're welcome, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before the meeting begins, I should like to express my strong protest about the fact that it is happening in the Ministry of Development's bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u6	You don't have the floor. If there was your parliamentary representative... You're a special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u7	But it's on a point of order. Mr President, do not take the floor away from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u8	Please. You don't have the floor. Follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u9	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Aren't you going to give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u10	Have a seat, please. Turn off the microphone. It cannot be said that anyone other than the parliamentary representatives who are expressing the parties can speak. You have the status of special speaker. The rapporteur of the New Republic, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u11	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today focuses on simplifying procedures for the opening of a series of economic activities. The philosophy of these arrangements has its roots in 2014, when for the first time it was institutionalised by the then government and for some categories of businesses the launch of activity with simple announcement. The simplification of the business start-up continued as a Memorandum of Understanding with L.4442/2016, largely exploiting the know-how and recommendations of the global bank. So here we have a policy that has been serving for a few years consistently and continuously. A policy that is in line with the government plan for more and better investment in our country and for supporting the business initiative. The bill we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, comes to support entrepreneurship in many different ways. In fact, it comes to support the small and medium-sized businessman, the small and medium-sized investor, since they concern most of the categories of economic activity that are simplified. It also supports the maintenance of the development of industry and the crafts sector by rules and by looking at the protection of the environment. The first and most important part of the bill is a simple notification scheme for various economic activities: maritime education schools, vocational training for transporters and drivers of dangerous goods vehicles. Symposiums and car parks, motorcycles and motorcycles. Laundry and lubricants of vehicles. Parking areas of heavy vehicles and long-distance bus stations. For those who see us, a notification means that enterprises and professionals simply inform the competent authorities through a specific digital platform that they are starting this economic activity instead of applying for the competent authority and waiting for them to be approved. Before submitting the notification, the person concerned shall collect the supporting documents required but shall not submit them. It shall keep them together with the receipt of the notification at the headquarters of its undertaking so that it can show them in the event of an audit with the penalties provided for if it does not or has not accumulated them. Apart from simple notification to the first part of the bill, there is also a simplified procedure for certain other categories of economic activity for which approval is required prior to their start of operation, in order to ensure the public interest and in particular the protection of goods such as health and safety. They belong to various leisure activities such as parks and ice-creams, daily care centres for the elderly, day-to-day care centres for the disabled, as well as the rental of maritime leisure facilities. As Mr Manossos Voloudakis rightly said to the committee responsible, the procedures for notification and approval laid down in the bill are in line with the national simplification programme established by Article 45 of Law No4635/2019, which is an integrated central public policy to combat bureaucracy and reduce administrative burdens. The second part of the bill contains a number of provisions governing certain specific aspects of the functioning of the market. A single framework for the activities provided for in Law 4442/2016 for certain activities operating within specific tourist infrastructures shall be selected. Such are the sanitary shops, theatres, swimming pools and swimming pools, as well as others that are also subject to the notification procedure. In addition, the issue of licensing manufacturing and logistical activities is regulated, while outstandings are resolved regarding the development and operation of organised manufacturing and business receptors such as industrial and craft parks. These include the lifting of the requirement to ensure a minimum percentage of the area, i.e. the consent of 55% of the landowners to the creation of the business refining park in Oinophitas is not required. This amendment attempts to overcome a dead end of decades, which prevents the region from being put in place and operating as organised receptors for processing and business by reorganising public spaces, organising management, using financial sources and tools to help develop and exploit environmentally friendly technologies, such as renewable energy sources and biological cleanup. It is important to say once again that the rights of the owners are not affected but, on the contrary, the rights of the owners are protected, while in the public interest, and in particular the need to reduce the environmental impact of the undertakings located in the area. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen to deal with the problem rather than get past it and let it grow. The same group of provisions for organised receptors shall be able to transfer the remaining build-up coefficient between the properties of the same owner located in an area or park of industrial or craft activity with a coverage rate which may not exceed 80%. We also said at second reading, Minister, that the joint ministerial decision setting out the procedure should take into account the risk that low-demand industrial or craft parks will be stripped, depriving businesses and jobs which are valuable to local economies. One of the very interesting interventions of the bill has to do with transferring the power to manage trademarks from the General Secretariat of Trade to the Industrial Property Mechanism to a person under private law of the State, who handles related issues of industrial property, has the know-how and experience to meet the needs of trademark management without delays being observed today. With this change, our country is in line with an international practice that is implemented almost everywhere. The criticism said by the Opposition about allegedly privatising the management of trademarks and a loss of revenue for the public was responded in a convincing and substantiated manner to the meetings of the committee. OBI is a body of the general government. Its cash assets are assembled with those of the general government. It shall be subject to the public accounting, to the single wage and to the procedures of the AACC. In this bill we also have provisions that improve the framework of commercial publicity and upgrade the general trade register, the well-known GFCM. A significant change is that the obligation to register GEMI and the natural persons carrying out an economic activity is institutionalised. Registration carried out free of charge and without requiring the publication of financial information for such persons. This creates an overall register of legal and natural persons exercising economic activity in our country for the first time. It is worth, ladies and gentlemen, before I finish my suggestion of distinguishing some other provisions which are coming to meet the specific needs of the market. It is possible to install automatic mail delivery and mail delivery machines in public outdoors and indoors by licensed postal operators. A potential that improves the quality of service of our fellow citizens and responds to the consumer trend of distance markets. It is also the “e-Consumer” electronic platform in which supermarkets are obliged to post their products daily, according to a list published by the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection. The benefits of this process are obvious for healthy competition, transparency and sound consumer information. It is still the article on how to calculate the pay threshold, for those involved in the evaluation, control and monitoring bodies of investment projects. This is to address the delay in the completion of various stages of the development law for the benefit of hundreds of recipients, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. One last thing, Mr Minister, concerns the provision for the approval of the activity: the rental of pleasure boats, the power of which we consider to be reasonable to extend beyond a year. The extension for three years or five years we believe that it will significantly increase the viability of such an investment and encourage serious business projects against all kinds of paratroopers. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also said at the outset that this bill largely touches the small and medium-sized enterprises. It comes to provide businesses and professionals with another web of facilities at a time when the Government of New Democracy is working with a project not only for the recovery of the economy after the pandemic, but also for the gradual change of its productive model, it comes to contribute to the temporal climate that is being shaped for the development of business and investment, with a substrate of the resources of the recovery fund and of the European Structural Funds. And with this in mind, with this expectation and with this purpose we are certainly voting in favour of the Ministry of Development bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u12	We also thank Mr Yoyakas and the consistency in time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when a bill from the Ministry of Development comes to this House, one expects, by reading something essential to the development perspective of our country, to solve problems in the business and commercial world, to open up new routes, how much more so when this comes at a time such as the one we are experiencing today, a new economic crisis which has particularly affected the middle-class as a result of the government's management failure and the wrong way of dealing with the health crisis. Just as SYRIZA has done and is doing all this time - Progressive Alliance, although it is in the position of Officer Response, by tabling specific, edited and costly proposals in all areas. As Alexis Tsipras did with his presentation on Tuesday of the plan for sustainable relaunching of the economy, a plan which includes substantial measures to delete part of the private debt, which were created at the time of the pandemic and concerns income tax, trade fee, HICP, insurance contributions and solidarity contribution, as well as debts to banking institutions. A debt created because of the government's decisions in which the entire Greek society has complied, not some wrong decisions or choices, or the taking of the business risk on the part of our fellow citizens. It is a project that proposes the need to strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to re-establish them and includes: subsidies to insurance contributions for the maintenance of jobs; the conversion of all the repayable aid to a non-refundable person; the real stimulus to the liquidity of enterprises through the Development Bank; and systemic guarantees through a high-purpose guarantee programme with a high rate of public coverage; the activation of the micro-credit institution; the establishment of a specific incompatibility account for free traders and businesses. It would be nice not to listen to Mr Petsa's 'leaf trees' in this Chamber again, as I would remind you that the proposal of SYRIZA in April 2020 for a non-refundable grant was implemented by the regions of the whole country, with the possibility of economics being available and you too, in a hurry, to implement it in part, shaking 50% in a non-refundable way. Now for the leaf trees for your friends like Mino Furthiotis I will not refer to where you found them. In the bill now, which, in a large part of it, is a follow-up to a real reform process, a reform to simplify the business environment launched by the SYRIZA Government in October 2015 and which was an integrated approach to modernising the framework of the authorisation process for all economic activities. It was a reform with distinct and obvious philosophy, which is rightly followed by the draft law under discussion, which was founded on changing the model and shifting from ex ante control, first freedom of activity and retrospective monitoring, on the basis of an assessment of the risk of each activity, using new administrative tools, in particular the notification concerning authorisation without an ex post inspection act. So we proceeded with the adoption of the emblematic N.4442/2016 with the provision of gradual subordination to that of all economic activities. And today they are part of this institutional framework for the authorisation of economic activities by Law 4442/2016, even with a delay, additional sectors, thus recognising the correctness of our initiatives. So far we agree, and that is why we are positive in principle in the bill. From there on, "plins and horns steadfastly sprinkled." You are bringing arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of the Trademarks Responsibilities to date within the General Secretariat of Trade and questions arise which we have tabled in the previous period and we have received no serious response. Why, in other words, you consider that the staff of the General Secretariat of Trade cannot respond to this mission. They don't have the expertise? They don't have the experience? And this know-how and experience is in the OBI? The OBI is sufficiently staffed and is the General Secretariat. In order to be honest, as has emerged from the debate in the committees, both bodies are dealing with a number of issues with their functioning. Instead of going ahead, as anyone would have done, in their organisational upgrading, by tabling a concrete plan, you are coming and baptizing as a reform a simple transfer of competences from one body to another, as if the transfer were going to solve the problems automatically. One thing is certain: with the baptisms, Minister, you are not doing well at all. And I now come to another task of the SYRIZA government, one more flagrant initiative at that time. I am referring to the Oinophilus Business Park, i.e. the area with the largest informal industrial concentration in the country, but for many decades the operation of all these plants has overweighted the environment, resulting in the serious environmental deterioration of the area and the contamination of the Auspicus river. With L.4605/2019 in the governance of SYRIZA we succeeded in the holistic treatment of the unregulated industrial structure in the area of Oinofy and with the cooperation of the Ministries of Economy, Energy and Environment, the Region of Central Greece, the Municipality of Tanagras and the economic operators of the region, a strategy for the restructuring and economic development of the region was developed. And to remind you of what BSE said then in its flash report, commenting on our legislative initiative, I shall mention. The report says: "Industry and logistics investments in Oinofyta and Aspropyrgo are encouraged. Business Park. What's changing in the Oinofytas. With the new provisions, the region is organised by urban planning, upgraded the natural environment, new prospects are given for the expansion of the establishments, ensure the development and modernisation of the necessary infrastructure, technology and transport networks.’ Finally, it says - and I stress - that BSE: 'It is noted that these arrangements implement a flagrant intervention for industry in Greece and show the way for public-private cooperation in simplifying the investment environment'. So this is what the so-called enemy of entrepreneurship, SYRIZA, did. I mean, think about what would happen if he was a friend of entrepreneurship. And now see what the pro-investing government of New Democracy has done over the past two years. Absolutely nothing! In the law adopted by the previous Government in Law 4605/2019, Article 56b states: ‘In an exclusive period of 15 months after the publication of this or a public limited company referred to in paragraph 11, the READ shall submit to the Directorate-General for Industry of the Ministry of Economy and Development an application for the approval of the development of the Business Park, as defined in paragraph 5, Article 46 and Article 47. Has the development approval of the Business Boarding Park been submitted after two years? No, it's the answer. What's that for? Two years of total indifference and indifference. And what are you doing? You are now coming with Article 32 of this bill to abolish the consent of 55% of the owners of the territory. You can't create. We've said it before, we've seen it. All you know is to dismantle. We are therefore moving further away, without you knowing that the issue of ensuring the extent to which land is to be safeguarded is a major issue in the development of a business park because it commits private land and the owners are obliged to contribute to land and money to the building and development of the business park, with a view to benefits from the future goodwill that will arise after its implementation and the sale of the land as an industrial one. The lack of consent of the owners now and on the basis of the experience they have gained so far is one of the main reasons for delaying their implementation, because it results in constant appeals against decisions to establish business parks by landowners. In this context, it is almost certain that a large part of the landowners, due to their commitment without consent, will be alienated from an important part of their property, thereby creating serious issues for the restructuring of the area, since it is certain that they will resort to this decision, both in Greek and in European courts, and so, in short, the consensus achieved with trouble in the previous period will not exist at the most critical stage of the project. And because you said, Minister, that anyone who disagrees with this article does not want to invest, I wonder why he does not want this investment to go ahead with Mr Constantine Michalos, the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who at the meeting of the bodies called for the withdrawal of the bill? Why does Mr Mandash not want this procedure to be completed, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Installed Enterprises in BIP? Why does the Mayor of the region not want to go ahead and solve the chronic environmental problems, the Mayor of Tanagris, who was directly opposed to the abolition that you have brought to Article 32? We heard that you care about the environment, etc. In other words, you want to tell us that you people most care for you who live in Athens, by the people who were born, raised, live in Tanagra. Because there is also the decision of the municipal council, which states that: 'This development must not be allowed, we must not tolerate it'. And you come to tell us that the people of the Municipality of Tanagra don't want their good, and you care. I will now come to Article 55 where you allow courier companies to set up in public services, municipalities or public areas, automatic delivery and delivery machines for parcels and letters, 'postal lockers'. So, after what had happened in the previous period, the courier companies from the obligation to deliver the postal product to the citizen - the consumer, who pays the bills. Thus, the obligation and cost of delivering parcels in good time and safe time again moves on to the citizens. Even here individual responsibility. But you are not answering us to critical questions which have been raised. Will the price policy change if someone receives it from the 'postal locker' or comes to their home? What is going to happen next time with the citizens who are facing kinetic problems, are old people, are residents of remote areas and do not have the opportunity to move to a place where a 'postal locker' has been installed? Will they receive their parcels without an additional charge on their premises? What happens if a machine, which will be placed in a crowded space, is stolen? How will the confidentiality of mail be ensured? Some businessmen have asked you, obviously, to abolish the consent of 55% of the landowners in the Oinofytas and do so. You were asked by the owners of the couriers 'postal lockers' and you meet the demands. We are not at all surprised by the way you legislate on order. This isn't the first time. You've done this before, and you'll do it again in the future. We're used to it. I will close by referring to two amendments. In the amendment to the assessment of research centres, a process which is not unprecedented. It has been taking place in our country for twenty-five years. Since the beginning of 2019, the evaluation process had begun, the process of setting up the committees had gone ahead and you came after the committees - oh miracle, something unprecedented! - to cancel everything. You voted for a failed, de facto, piece of legislation - it has never been implemented - in autumn 2019 and you are coming again, after two years, to legislate again for the same thing, while two years the evaluation has not gone ahead. But you also make it amazing: you know the evaluation of institutes from research centres, as if they were following a separate strategy, the institutes do not come under the research centres' strategy, as if they had separate funding, as if the institutes had a separate budget and did not have the same as the research centres. You experiment constantly, without, apparently, knowing what you want to do and what aim you have. As regards the amendment to grant temporary AMKA etc., there is Article 3, which states ‘participation of medical students in examinations for coronary detection, COVID -19’. It is not your responsibility, but for a very long time, while we have heard about various areas that need to be opened, there is no debate about higher education at all, as if there are no universities in that country. When are we going to discuss how, in what way and when these will be opened? You therefore include in the provision the active participation of students in the School of Medicine in the country, who have completed their third year of study, in other words, in steps for the detection of COVID and are described as "... students employed for that purpose". The employees! We would like to know this: when someone is employed, he has a reward. The students who will be employed - why, obviously, do not have the will and will to hire additional staff - will they receive a fee? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill to simplify procedures for the opening of economic activities. It would be nice, however, before we enter the provisions of the bill, to see what the situation is today for existing businesses, which the government is calling on to pay for a whole trade fee for a year during which half of it was closed, as if there were no pandemic, as if there were no recession. So what is the situation? According to the latest annual report by the HSY, four out of ten enterprises are threatened, losing revenues and accumulating debts. In fact, their number is twice as high last year, with the President of the ERC directly stating that the short-term viability of domestic enterprises is threatened. And according to the recent survey by the Institute for Small Enterprises of GATT doubled the companies that closed with losses in 2020, while 70% - I say this again, 70%! - Proclaims a tick fall. The Minister, of course, is not concerned. In plenary a month ago, he told us that the fall in turnover is less than last year on the basis of ELSTAT's figures. He forgot, however, that ELSTAT's data are based on business samples with more than EUR 140,000 annual turnover. It is therefore confirmed, once again, that there is no room for small businesses in the planning, practical and political choices of the government. What else do professional unions say? One in three firms is delaying loan instalments and one in two cannot meet credit obligations. At the same time, the funds have begun to demand loans under threat of seizures and auctions - the minister's favourite issue - since the services themselves are looking forward to two hundred and fifty thousand real estate auctions in the next five years, i.e. fifty thousand auctions a year. One out of four companies cannot meet its rent and tax obligations. On the basis of the previous AIA data, new dues amounted to EUR 1,62 billion for the first two months of 2021 and are added to more than 7 billion new dues in 2020. One million and a half hundred ninety thousand debtors have already been seized by the ADP alone, and four hundred thousand of them have an open tax bill. This is based on the ADP data. The total private debt exceeds 200 billion, without including unidentified debts between private individuals, debts to AIFMs and suppliers. Does the government know that? He knows it very well. That is why it introduces legislation on the incompatibility of aid for the compensation of farmers due to COVID -19, for the purchase of heating bodies through the NRP and today for the grant of catering professionals through the NRP. So he knows it, and he brings these arrangements. What does the government do about private debt? It leads, very simply, professionals and citizens in the new Banking Code without first-place protection, without guaranteeing that the maximum number of doses will be exhausted in the extrajudicial, extrajudicial, which - I repeat - is exactly the same as the SYRIZA, which has given two thousand two hundred and sixty-eight regulations in three and a half years of operation. Does the government have a plan to relaunch the economy? I'm afraid not. It takes liquidity, long-term debt adjustment, insurance contributions subsidy for at least four months after market opening. Why? Because the opening of the market does not involve a return to the precursors' pandemic. For example, the drop in turnover in the third quarter of 2020 with the market open and tourism in operation exceeded EUR 13 billion on the basis of ELSTAT's data. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be said that the government overrun SYRIZA in the IMD competitiveness index, indeed by improving the country's position by nine posts, but, according to the last report of the Bank of Greece, the structural competitiveness of the Greek economy remains comparatively low at European and international level with a more important challenge, as the Bank of Greece's report says, improving access for enterprises to finance. It is no coincidence that on page 131 of the Recovery Fund, you yourself are talking about improving the business environment and simplifying the regulatory framework. And you say this twenty-one months after New Democracy took over. And I ask: How many ministerial or presidential decisions have you adopted in implementation of 4042/2016 to date to go into a procedure for notification or approval of an economic activity, both you and the previous government? The question is both. Because the results prove to be sadly poor. That is why a new extension is being made to the relevant deadline with Article 14. It turns out that, despite good intentions, laws are unfortunately slow to implement. The bill we are discussing, despite the fact that no one in this Chamber could disagree with the principle of simplification, that is to say the speeding up of procedures for the opening of economic activities, the bill itself provides for the adoption of forty ministerial and joint ministerial decisions with Mr Georgiadis to put another bet on the fact that they will be issued by September, but without explaining why almost thirty decisions of "Investing in Greece and other provisions" that we voted for a year and a half before all have been adopted so far. Is it, of course, a failure only by the Ministry of Development this delay? Of course not. BSE itself in its digital modernisation report points to the country's low degree of digital maturity, burning the delay of more than a hundred resolutions of the Digital Governance Code voted on by the present government. You yourself were talking about lowering taxes. But let us see what the tax reality in Greece is with evidence. The Tax Foundation’s tax competitiveness ratio, which is also included in the Bank of Greece’s report and which examines over forty variables in tax policy, remains in the 20th place and this year among thirty-six countries. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the provisions we are discussing facilitate entrepreneurship, or at least that is what they intend, the large majority of the stakeholders have expressed reservations. Some of them and disagreements. A common concern is the absence of adequate control to ensure that the new framework is not abused, that is, the fear expressed in the report's assessment of the consequences of regulation. In the case, for example, of car workshops, it is reasonable to worry about the lack of proper technical and mechanical equipment from an undertaking that operates without being checked, and that is why safety issues are obviously arising, especially when we are talking about today, and I think that this provision should be reviewed. It is also reasonable to react to rentable sea recreational means for both the long time needed to approve the licence and the risk of investment that is being transferred to the candidate investor, who should buy the recreational means in fear of ultimately rejecting his investment. I think we'll have to find a way that once we've secured it, the investor won't risk. We insist that the competence to monitor health stores related to tourism and described in Articles 18 to 24 must be exercised by the municipalities or the region. Now, in Article 25, for those mountain shelters operating without permission, you are giving an extension of the mark, in your well-known practice, while you are abolishing the fines that have already been imposed retrospectively. In Article 28, with regard to storage centres for dangerous substances up to 10% of the storage volume, I think that a certain limit should be laid down on the size of the maximum volume, because we all understand that cases at risk are involved. On the question of the resolution of the Oinofyta business park, it is clear that the consultation margins have not been exhausted. On the one hand, BSE, the EBRD, the EBRD wants to abolish the necessary 55% consent of the owners and, on the other hand, the municipality, the owners and even the representatives of the BIPs and chambers, not only disagree but, on the other, some also demand the withdrawal of the article. We are talking about an area where 52% today we are talking about established industrial concentrations and it is worth wondering how many people ultimately agree with the resolution plan and who they represent. Should there not be a minimum consensus in this resolution plan that will be attempted? 55% automatically has to be replaced by an article that will be voted on today in Parliament? Should expropriations be made in order to get into a plan that ultimately convinces a large part of the owners to agree on what we all agree that, although it is done with the necessary and proper work, will it contribute to growth and, of course, to jobs? And really, will you adopt this model in similar cases in other regions? We believe that the margins of consultation need to be exhausted, and at least the hearing by bodies have made it clear that these have not been exhausted and that serious doubts have been raised as to whether there has been a debate and whether all the dimensions of the resolution plan have actually been explained. We shall now proceed to the trademark provisions. One could actually say that it is reasonable to argue that the competences for trade marks should be brought together with those for patents in an organisation. In fact, the Minister mentioned as an example that only in Greece, Egypt and North Korea these powers are not exercised by one body. I heard that and it sounds reasonable. But if you wish, Minister, to apply international best practices in all areas of your responsibility, to do so entirely. Why am I saying that? You know very well, he has told the House - you were present - the President of the Competition Committee, Mr Lianos, that only in Greece and Mexico, the telecommunications control is carried out by another independent authority other than the Competition Committee. So if you who change the PASOK laws, because it is all about PASOK, according to Mr Georgiadis, if you who change this PASOK law and take everything to the OBI, do it in a sensitive area involving millions of citizens, who really wonder if there is a Competition Commission on telecommunications, if it protects the citizens who pay the most expensive internet, unfortunately of low quality. And anyway, sometime he'll have to get into this landscape. I will not mention, to return to the issue of trademarks, the gradual depreciation of the Trademarks Directorate from international recognition in 2014 by the European Union Intellectual Property Office. It arrived in 2021 to be charged with a delay of four to six months in the performance of signals. It is important and interesting that this course of action has been taken by international recognition, and it is also indicative how this address has been addressed by both the previous and the current government. But I shall ask, Minister, directly. I agree with the arguments so far. Why public revenue should be added to the already large surplus and reserve of the OBI which, if the information is correct, exceeds EUR 15-17 million and which has not been explained to us why it will also be used for an objective, in a period of lack of public revenue. I think you should change that. It may transfer responsibilities, if you apply uniform rules, but revenue for no reason should you transfer them to the OBI. As regards the ‘e-consumer’ platform in Article 57, the measure is correct. However, if we are talking about real consumer protection in the midst of a pandemic and a substantial supermarket monopoly, the Ministry should inform us whether it has so far identified sudden or unjustified phenomena particularly during the pandemic period and whether fines have been imposed. Because you remember the debate we had at the beginning of the second lockdown, and I would remind you that supermarkets have two-digit growth rates in the midst of a crisis. Finally, as far as Scaramaga Shipyards are concerned, we still have the announcement of the Prime Minister at the IGC about the existence of a reliable investor. Two competitions, one bid much less than the minimum price. Of course, you are doing well and you are giving a shipyard licence, but you are not convinced that you really have a strategy for the shipbuilding industry. For the amendments, what I wanted to say before the debate began is that, unfortunately, amendments which have nothing to do with the subject of the Ministry of Development, which have nothing to do with any bill from the Ministry of Development, have been made. Three amendments, 847, 848 and 849 suddenly nothing to do with the bill, in breach of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. However, I shall refer to my second version of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, speeding up and simplifying procedures has always been the achilles heel for economic activity in a country where bureaucracy has been living and reigning and dominating for decades. Even the National Simplification Programme of procedures introduced by the current government remains a blank letter to date. Provisions such as those of the bill, at least in the thirteenth articles with the comments we have made, are welcome, far more now that it is necessary as ever to relaunch the economy and strengthen growth, as long as they are implemented and implemented quickly, to achieve results. We in PASOK with Law 3982/11 laid the foundations for simplifying procedures, an initiative that continued both in 1914 and in 1916, but also in this bill. We stress, however, that the principles of good legislation and the effective functioning of public services, both for citizens and for business, have rarely been respected in the present day. But we support any initiative that facilitates entrepreneurship at a difficult time for the country, at a time when the government, unfortunately, through its choices to the Recovery Fund, leads micro-enterprises either to close or to a violent merger, supposedly in the name of the competitiveness of the Greek economy. We have another perspective, a different approach, an alternative proposal. A proposal concerning the many who are threatened and struggling for the future and with them will really give us the fight so that we can all overcome this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u16	And we thank Mr. Katrin. Please prepare for the Step in order for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The JV in each bill shall be placed on the basis of which the rules laid down by the Government are to be complied with. The aim of these arrangements of the bill is the complete liberalization of the activities of the major business groups. This position we expressed in the committees and in plenary today has also been confirmed by the small businessmen' s bodies with the disagreements they have put forward at the committee's meeting. The Undersecretary tried to convince us on the contrary when he invited us to vote on the bill. The bio-cultural businessmen are aware of the consequences of liberalisation, and so far they have paid very much for this policy implemented by all governments. They are struggling for their debts, for the incomes that have been reduced so hard to meet basic needs, especially at this time of pandemic. They're struggling because they're in front of seizures and auctions. That's what concerns them directly. They are also concerned with liberation, of course, but not with this line that the State Secretary says. The JRC, in assessing the situation that has been brought about by microprofessionals, submitted a proposal for a law in January with a demand for EUR 1000 each month for professionals, crafters, traders, farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, fishers, since October 2020 and for as long as the restrictive measures for those who have an individual income of up to EUR 12,000 in 2019, are increased by 3,000 for each protected member. Deletion of interest and reduction of debts to banks, reduction of debts to the public and non-wage insurance funds, cessation of seizures and auctions and exemptions from municipal fees and municipal facilities. This proposal follows on from the proposal for a law that we tabled in July 2020 for the relief of the people's households, of course, we are tabling its specific articles on the Minutes. The government, while on the one hand fully liberalising the activities of business groups, abolishing any other legislation which prevents it, on the other hand, seeks in every way to prevent workers from acting, their struggles and the proclaiming of real needs. It criminalizes every racing mobilization. It is continuing to attack the workers and the people with vigour. The anti-government abortion that the government is preparing to bring, and the Minister of Labour presents it every day, Mr. Hatzidakis, meets the requirement of the great capital that has never been reconciled with the fixed daily working time - the eighth hour - and abolishes a hundred-year-old conquest in our country and a hundred-five years since the Chicago uprising. Today that the evolution of science and technology has led to a huge increase in labour productivity in the production of intact wealth, instead of a reduction in working time, capital requires its growth, as does its political staff, the abolition of fixed daily time by overthrowing the life of the worker, leading to absolute impoverishment. This is not progress, it's regression. The day-to-day anxiety and action of the JRC are the needs of the workers and the people's strata. We are the ones who serve with all the proposals of law that we are tabling. We are defending the lives, health and the rights of workers, the self-employed, the bio-patient farmers and farmers, small professionals. The Government, by means of this draft law, abolishes all procedures for the authorisation of business groups on terms of safety and public health, effectively abolishes controls and fully liberalises their activities. The bill complements SYRIZA's Memorandum Law in 4442/2016. This law continues and is maintained by the Government of New Democracy. It was a Memorandum of Understanding, a requirement for industrialists and other entrepreneurs, because it precisely adapts the structures of the urban state to the current needs of capital, abolishes the permits and controls of businesses and leads to a complete liberalisation regime. Remove ex ante controls, such as technical studies, public health protection issues and others. The 11 activities included in the bill relate to cases where there are public interest risk issues. Incorporate these into the simple notification procedure. In other words, there is no need to obtain any necessary permits for the operation of the activity in its area of exercise, but only to communicate through the integrated information system for the exercise of competences and control. Maritime education, vocational training for carriers, vocational training for drivers of dangerous goods vehicles, the simplification of renting sea recreational means, the framework for the operation of lubricants with the express opposition of operators, all this really does not pose any risks? Should there be no safe operation conditions? It also simplifys the procedure for the establishment and operation of the daily care centre for elderly people and daily care centres for disabled people. Mr. Minister said it was SYRIZA settlement. Yes, the regulation of the SYRIZA was and now the current government has incorporated it into this simplification. As a JRC we are against the establishment and operation of these welfare structures by any private person, whether it has the form of a natural person entrepreneur or the form of an NGO operation, a charitable association, a private centre. The State must fully assume the responsibility for the development and functioning of all necessary structures for protecting the elderly and the disabled at a pan-Hellenic level, structures that operate with all the modern standards, the necessary equipment, with all the necessary and scientificly trained staff, with all working rights. And modern programs are being developed to satisfy the real needs of the beneficiaries. The need for such structures, public structures, has been tragically analysed in the quarantine conditions, where many elderly and LEI had to face the pandemic of each one alone, at home, due to the lack of such structures. It is well known that the incidents in the private sector hospitality centres, which have been saluted by the pandemic precisely because they are not a criterion for their operation, are not the fulfilment of real needs, but the performance of these structures as businesses. We do not agree with the logic of simplifying authorisation procedures, because in a number of sectors there are issues of public health safety, either for installations or for adequacy, even for the safety of personnel. In Article 32 for the Industrial Park in Oinofyta we express our complete disagreement. In the region, the industries perpetuate undisturbed. They've led to environmental crimes. The infection of Aesopus with the hexavalent chromium is known. The concern of the local residents is growing from the promotion of the creation of a hazardous toxic waste facility in the region. In order to support the major industries in the region you are abolishing and the condition of the consent of 55% of the owners, depriving them of any acres that were owned by some small ones, who may have even cultivated them. We disagree with the transfer of the trade mark to the Industrial Property Organisation, to a private body. It can be a body of the general government, as the Minister says in committees. However, we must note that other such bodies in the general government have already been privatised. It is very easy for this Organisation of Industrial Property to become an annex to the Association of Greek Industrialists. Those who will be deprived of or find it difficult for the signal will be small professionals, self-employed and not large entrepreneurs. Not that today, of course, the organisation does not have such a function and does not serve the needs of the Industry Association. For the purpose of Article 60, for Skaramaga Shipyards, with the division of the licence, one at the "Greek Shipyard S.A." and one at the "ETAD S.A." i.e. at the Real Estate Company, you want to facilitate the sale. You have already abolished the refugee structure. Promote privatisation with the two new competitions after Easter, as you, the government, in the press. The three hundred acres of each company are privatised, the basic equipment and the facilities are located in the three hundred acres of the Special Manager and on the extent of the EBRD there is a large building tank. Large logistics operations want this area. There is no care for workers for their continuing work, for their rights. No care to pay their wages. It is, of course, well-known that the development in Syros Shipyards, proposed by SYRIZA, where the workers have lost all their rights, is in contract with terms of employment far more painful. Finally, we note that any measures to liberalise capital will exacerbate the living conditions of the workers and the people of the city and the countryside. For the working class, the city's and countryside's bio-opportunists, the development paths give. One is the one who lives, the vast majority of the working people's families, the one characterised by the crises, the wars and the great exploitation of workers and the populace. During the pandemic period this face showed that it is more ruthless than many, resulting in millions dead all over the world. It is a system that is in the way of progress and the well-being of the people. It is what leads to poverty, impoverishment, and long-term unemployment. Whatever more productive model it has chosen, whatever liberalisation of large capital has been, crises have not stopped. The results are well known. They are the great deadlocks of workers and the people, the worsening of living conditions. The regulation of the bill on the use of the framework for increasing economic activities strengthens, facilitates the action of the major groups responsible for what our people live. The State is not neutral, serves the bourgeoisie, which has power and with its functions facilitates its action, shields its power. This State is present in every claim on capital, in any need. Everything that's standing in the way is pulling away. But when it comes to pensions, then there will be budgetary problems, it is delaying up to five years to pay debts, retrospectively or to approve pensions. The path of growth, which has as an incentive to profit, contrasts with the needs of the workers and the people, stands in the way of satisfying the needs created by the development of science and technology. The only solution is the new form of organization of the economy in the working class, which alone can plan the development of any production capacity with the sole aim of satisfying the modern needs of the workers and the people. With its own power, central planning, participation and labour control, the environment, people's security and any other activity can be ensured. Workers only have to benefit from this development path and while they are late to make their own case, the consequences will be continuous, greater and living conditions even worse. They cannot tolerate the creation of wealth and even be deprived of the dish of food that our people say. In front of the working class has powerful struggles. He'll give them whatever obstacles you're trying to put. On May 6, which will be celebrated, with strike and concentration in the Constitution, the voice of the working class will be loudly heard: "Down out from the eighth hour, from the conquests, the rights of workers and the people." The workers will answer the government and the capital, support the rights to life, health and the conquests they already have through the long-term struggles. We are voting against the principle. We shall look at the amendments which are not very few.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. We continue with the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Vasiliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all five and five Greek solutions. Minister, as mentioned in the first committee, we will no longer be disturbed by the extra-parliamentary rule of our country from the troika, whatever name we give it, which we have documented by adding elements from the eighth and ninth evaluations, which the Minister confirmed. This evidence proves that the memorials live and reign, as well as that today's bill is part of the government's Memorandum of Understanding. It should therefore be understood to the Members of Parliament of all the groups, including the New Democracy, of the two Members who are at least here today, that the government is only managing communication, that is, publicity, such as the devastating bill you are promoting on the people's markets. Fortunately, the Minister for Development has not once again claimed that he decides and does not want to be glorified by the troika, as in the past by the dissolution of our health system, which we are paying to the multiplier today. We pay the health system extremely expensive on the one hand with the atrocious deficits that surpassed 20 billion euros in 2020, on the other hand increasing our public debt, on the other hand, with the health of our fellow citizens, not only because of the pandemic but also because of other diseases that were unable to take care of our health-associated system. And we have the opinion, as far as bills such as today are concerned, that these are the usual extortionist prerequisites of the memorials, this time in exchange for Greece being able to borrow despite the failed management of the pandemic. Otherwise, of course, no one would lend Greece, and in fact this is how the change in our country's ownership regime, which will bring many profits to its new owners, is financed. On the other hand, judging by the individual provisions of today's draft law and not only does the troika insist on turning us into European's wardrobes, if not its 'Philippines', in the broad sense of the term, as well as into a place of entertainment for Europeans, with its casinos, with its recreational spaces and others, with Greeks serving them as cheap, impoverished debt slaves and further with the hotspots it finances, so that Greece can turn into a multiculturally controlled area, while it is clear that this is how our territorial sovereignty is being removed and social cohesion is divided. At least that is what we, from the outset, are opposed to monoculture of tourism, in this case from the contents of the bill, to which they fall within the specific professional activities, within the scope of Memorandum No 4442 of 2016, which defines a simpler - deregulation is the right word - a framework for licensing operations. In particular, various sectors, such as services such as tourist facilities, sanitary shops within them, as well as in ports, parks, circus, maritime education schools, day-care centres, transport and vehicle arrangements, as well as various others, are added to this licensing scheme. Processing arrangements are referred to in the second part together with a number of issues that are more generally related to business activity, while all the arrangements follow a repetitive pattern, specifying the competent authority, the notification procedure, the paradox, sanctions and controls. Everywhere the same pattern. Finally, other provisions relating to the Ministry's organizational, the Scaramaga Shipyards, the updating of supermarket prices on the ‘e-consumer’ platform, the handling of heating oil, the installation of automatic courier machinery and so on. Generally speaking, this is a meaningless piece of legislation that fulfils the government's obligations, and it is not going to help improve our economy that has unfortunately been destroyed almost completely. However, it was noted in the comments made by the interested parties in the consultation - quite rightly so - on the question of the new type of licensing, in particular the absence of formal checks and approval, in the fear that everyone can, even without regard to the subject, be involved in the relevant activities, such as rental of pleasure boats and so on, of course with adverse consequences. In the next committees, we spoke in detail about the articles. Amongst other things, we have stressed that after two years of simplification from the present government, from the first development project, which we have voted on - and after eleven years of painful reforms, not only have there been no investment in Greece, but many existing investments have been abandoned, which is of course annoying to us all. Unfortunately, it seems that lenders are only interested in enforcing laws, such as today, which deregulation the economy instead of organising it, as well as selling our public assets and the private auctions. However, we have wondered why they do not even support existing investments, such as PITSOS, or some new ones, such as the creation of an electric car factory by VOLKSWAGEN or another, reminding us that we are the only country that was not compensated for the German scandal of the scandals, for Diesel Gate, despite our constant questions and our insistence on the questions we asked the Minister, let alone when we have the only advantage of nickel and LARCO for electric cars. Because the market is small, as the missing Minister for Development said? Obviously not, since electric cars also produce Bulgaria in collaboration with the RENAULT, not of course the non-existent investors from Skopje presented in Greece. However, if it is our small market, it is certainly not Europe, where Turkey sells cars massively. In fact, this should be the main objective of the Memorandum at least: attracting at least foreign investments. Let us not forget that even Germany has attracted foreign investment after the war, while it has deleted over 50% of its public debts by resolving the payment of the balances with an export clause, despite the fact that it has blooded the planet for a second time. At least we never did anything like this. Should our governments not be able to do this? Do they only know who they are? Just sell Greece and the Greeks without the slightest consideration? Only to keep in their drawers new Memorandum bills, such as for deregulation of work, pensions or another bankruptcy law, until they consider that they are not politically at risk? Where does New Democracy lead again to Greece after the overload of 2004-2009, following the crime of the PSI and the signing of so many memoranda? Why is our public debt constantly increasing, which has exceeded EUR 375 billion, despite the fact that it is at the same time selling off all our state-owned businesses? Does it not see how the ‘red’ private debt has exceeded EUR 240 billion, while our total external debt is close to $500 billion? It's over $500 billion, as we'll testify to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why condemn all the next generations of Greeks, who will be called upon to pay such debts, how much more so when our homeland dies literally demographically? Continuing on a friendly tactic of the government, the troika better, it is the tabling of a draft law on a generally accepted issue, such as simplifications of procedures, island policy, illegal trade and others, but without a thorough analysis, for example, costing out its consequences from the General Accounting Office of the State. We've never seen a single number from the State General Accounting Office. Thus, there is no substantial debate on its results, with the aim of avoiding social reactions, while Parliament is being used to ratify it - I stress, Parliament is being used to ratify it - which is given the majority of the ruling party. Furthermore, as we have said, certain activities are supposed to be simplified and simplification is a good thing, and red tape is a good thing. However, bureaucracy is not an obstacle to the Greek, Skouria, to the subsidised motorways or to where else projects that serve great interests must be promoted, but this is not the case with a small business that wants - for example - to obtain type approval for the production of small electrical vehicles in Greece, since there is not even an office. We've asked too many questions. The government has never created a similar office. Incidentally, Minister - when you arrived - did the government receive the EUR 300 million advance from the Latsis Group for the Greek, budgeted in the first quarter, as it was in 2020, without even a drachma being paid? Do you know? In any case, such simplifications, such as today's ones, have emphasised that they are called'market deregulations', as imposed by neoliberal regimes, which have the ultimate effect of becoming the major investors and inconsistent, finally by simply selling the market. We have emphasised thousands of times that as a Greek Solution we are neither in favour of state monopolies nor private monopolies but in favour of the genuinely free market. In this respect, it is comic-tragic that when many countries, like the United States recently, abandon neoliberalism, assuming that it has caused enormous damage to societies, Greece is adopting it forty years. If that's possible! Furthermore, in general, the monitoring of the simplified services of the draft law will be carried out through the integrated information system, and potential control and fines will be decided by the Minister concerned. Truth, as the Minister recently imposed a fine of EUR 8 000 on 'NOTOS' and the next day it was cancelled, did it not substantiate that the fines will be paid only by the weak? This can obviously work for the benefit of some, providing them with opportunities to circumvent legal obstacles, while at the same time unambiguously adopting the paradoxes and sanctions extra-parliamentary by means of a joint ministerial decision. What really prevents some professionals from claiming to be subject to the'simplified' regime, especially if they have the benefit of the various ministers and the troika in terms of controls? Absolutely nothing! In some articles now, in summary terms, simply to understand the substance of the draft law, the following: In Chapter II for parks, circus and pavements, the government insists on parks, circus and pavements. We are sceptical about the logic of simplification, given that such an installation can easily be set up and solved. What if there is immunity and a person killed in a park, as has happened several times in the past? Will death be considered reasonable in the name of speeding up the investment process? In Chapter V for maritime education schools, we consider that there is a great deal of lightness in the training of seafarers, while for the rental of maritime recreational means it is stated that the activities to be included will be defined later by CAR and by ministerial decision, always by ministerial decision. So, by voting for the law, we will give a white cheque for an activity, such as renting sea recreational media, which is central to the areas of mass tourism and an important source of accidents? Does the troika want to impose order on the people's markets? Anywhere else? In Chapter VIII now to simplify the scope for the establishment and operation of vehicle workshops, it is actually possible for anyone who wants to set up a workshop where they want to be concise at a time when the industry is submerged in the crisis. In particular, from two and a half thousand legally authorised units with a “Partner and Fanny” exhibition at the end of 2017, there were only one thousand three hundred, not half of them, while the twenty thousand employees who employed in 2007 now employ fewer than ten thousand. It is not possible, however, for anyone who wants to start a garage on the pilot or on the basement of a building, with what this can mean for nursing or for the safety of both residents and workers. It's a disgrace - a great shame! - that Greece turns so many decades back. In conclusion, the government certainly does not expect us to vote for a Memorandum of Understanding and a bill that completely deregulations the market according to the models of already failed neoliberalism that serves the perfect state of New Democracy, meaning that we are obviously voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u20	And we thank Mr. Villardo. Please prepare the Step in order for the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arsenis to speak. And until this is done, I wanted to inform you on the occasion of taking Mr Villardo that it is right that we do not create impressions, because I have to say that I have something to do with the Bureau. The House, like the entire state, operates under special circumstances. So when you refer to who they are attending, how many attending, you do not do good service. In my view, this procedure - and I read it at first, reads it by every President - is as follows: in a natural presence the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives are the rapporteurs. From that point on, parliamentarians are alternated and always in the Chamber and some with Webex. Don't give us the impression that some come and some don't come. This is bad, because we are feeding the misinformation rather than the right information. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when the government does everything it can, it uses what it has in its power to close small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, when 40% of small businesses say they will not open up again after the quarantine, it brings us a bill to simplify the licensing procedures for new businesses. Really, is that the problem in Greece right now? What new businesses will open up is the issue, or how will we keep business alive?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u22	So don't bring it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u23	You're bringing it, Mr. Comrade. Who are you bringing this to? It's the question. The question at the moment is how we will actually strengthen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u24	We'll have a short break until the technical problem is restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Because of technical problems, we are relaunching with the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, to start with his posting interrupted. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if we in the House have experienced an hour of interruption and complete technical weakness, you understand what happens every day in the homes of teachers who have had to work from their homes, because there are no computers in the schools, the people who have had to work with their computers, who pay for telephony, who have the burdens of telephony on their own shoulders and on their families' shoulders, as on the same family internet connection, we must support the televising of the parent of teachers, the children, as well as of course the parents who work through televised. These teachers are excluded from the computer support because you consider them to be high incomes. And I say that just to understand that there may be special conditions in this Chamber, but now you have experienced for a while what is happening in people's homes. At a time when the government is "mechanizing" the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises and 40% of companies announce that they do not see any reappearance, it brings a bill to simplify the licensing procedures for new businesses. In fact, when 40% of companies are not going to be able to reopen, who is currently in their minds in the new businesses that open up? But, of course, the one who expects to obtain economic activities from the close-up companies. They are themselves the business groups that will benefit from this bill and for whom you are doing this bill. They are those who take the EUR 56 billion from the Recovery Fund, 13 billion new loans from abroad, debt growth, 23 billion loans from the companies that the PPPs will take, our loans to the companies that the PPPs do, which we will pay back to the multiplier that they will get from the banks with a public guarantee. And if they manage to pay them back, we'll pay them back in multiples. This is a total of EUR 56 billion, and the government says to us: "But we also give EUR 1.5 billion. Small and medium-sized business', as long as they can get a loan, why do you give it through loans? We're talking about those who can get over the skateboard of "TIERIA" and give them a loan from the bank. And, of course, at the same time, as Mr Stournaras says, you are preparing to give another EUR 12 billion. At the same time, it is important that the European Union should be able to play its part in the process of democratization in the Middle East and in the Middle East and in the Middle East and in the Middle East and in the Middle East. - this is the initial part, at the end of the day it will all go away - which you are giving for the programme 'HERAKLIS'. So big businesses currently have nearly 70 billion euros to take. That's the situation. These are the companies that will make it easier to open up new businesses, new activities, those that will be closed down by small and medium-sized enterprises. You are consistent with your policy. You have already announced that around 90% of employment and public revenues are generated by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed, and that is a major problem. You said so in agreement with the Bank of Greece's reports, which were talking about concentrating activities on tourism and the agricultural sector, as well as with the reports by other financial operators. How do you process business closures? With the hardest lockdown the world has ever had. We were all over this time at the top of the list of hardest Lockdowns worldwide. We were once outdated by two - three countries, Mongolia, Jordan, Lebanon, sometimes outdated them. We're in this competition. You have implemented a hard lockdown which means closed operations, which means a cost for the economy so long about 120 million per day. Of course we pay this cost so that you don't run the necessary tests. Suddenly you discovered them. How many times have we told you here in plenary? The scientists have told you that, with your measures, you are targeting people rather than the coronary. If you wanted to target the coronary, you had to carry out checks all the time, test from the first moment, not limit people and activities, but limit the coronary and when someone is found to have a coronary, trace his contacts, and these people enter quarantine for the minimum period required. You chose to close the economy and the activities. You've targeted people. But at the same time that you closed them down, you made sure that the businesses were closed down. Closed companies had to pay tax, insurance contributions. Instead of freezing these contributions, did you in practice make suspensions of debt payments for businesses from where will they find the revenue to give them later? You have legislated the Banking Code and put it into effect since 1 April, a code which provides for confiscation of the property of anyone who owes more than EUR 30,000 and its property is auctioned and the auctioning is inappropriate, as the auctions will be fruitless in this economic situation that we are experiencing. These people will lose their property for the benefit of the public, which will certainly give it back to individuals and will not put 1 euro into their pockets, nor 1 euro will their debt be reduced. You have legislated on this incomprehensible and unconstitutional to terrorize the world and run to compromise with the lenders. The lenders will collect up-to-date data, have no obligation to respond to proposals to resolve the issue by borrowers, but they can unilaterally start their bankruptcy and move against their private property, as well as their income. And it is not enough to go ahead with this incomprehensible, legislate and move on to the worst moment of the crisis, and you are bringing us bills with facilities to open up the companies you are closing, to open up from others. Go ahead and confiscations. Obligations for legal persons on 1 April, 1 June, 1 June, 1 June, are hereby opened. Of course you will also proceed with HARAKEL even though we have informed you and notified you, we have asked you from the first moment and with amendments, to suspend HARAKEL, to suspend the Banking Code, to stop their implementation since you do not want to withdraw it, as you should. And yet you are going on now, at the worst time of the crisis, and you are bringing us a bill at a time when you are going to confiscate and auction the property of people and businesses, about how to open up new businesses on more favourable terms than major entrepreneurs. Now, of course, you also attack people with the creation of companies that can be purchased by multinationals, by the large chains of supermarkets. You want to displace the producers. Even that's what you don't want to let go of the big chains of supermarkets. All the grown-ups! Of course, when there are no "leaf trees" there are no problems, you have no problem giving the 2.5 million, which would take the public over from the trademarks every year, to a legal person under private law, the Industrial Property Agency, and when we ask you how many ICUs you would do with this money, you say to us: "But if possible! What level is that?’ Obviously, 2.5 million are not lost. They're staying in public. We ask you: are they going to the budget? The Minister answers us: 'Go to the state's account and if necessary we can confiscate them.' That was the answer, instead of a'sorry'. So 'leaf trees' do not exist, but money to fly away from the ordinary budget is there. We told you when we discussed the budget, a budget which was obviously inappropriate, that this debate was in vain. It seems this in two ways: you are bringing an increase in the budget with an amendment and at the same time with a bill being discussed in committees. Two ways. Even in a single legislative framework you could not bring it. You are, of course, raising different amounts in the budget without increasing health expenditure. That's unthinkable. At the worst time of the health crisis, which we have not even seen at the top of the new wave of the epidemic, which ends the latest ICUs - not for general use COVID, for other diseases - which we have sealed out of ICUs, which increase viral load in sewage, you bring changes in the budget and do not increase health expenditure? Why? So that you don't give the 160 million to make a thousand IF beds, with your ministers telling us, "What are we going to do after the coronary?" Why not give half a billion to do all the necessary intakes to health and continue to persecute doctors? You dismissed a worker in an ICU in the "Salvation", Mr. Curse. It wasn't worth renewing the contract. He wasn't capable! But when he passed the recruitment process, he became the most qualified person and was hired to "Elena Venizelos". He'll work for four months. You also fired a divorced mother, alone with a child, in Yannina, also because she didn't help you. Instead of bringing the health increases to the budget that you are amending, you continue to give 2.5 million from the Ministry of Development, where you dissolve the entire part of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection, a part - you disperse it and privatise it or give it to organisations that you will privatize then, such as the Organisation for Industrial Property. Workers report that through this bill you are transporting and privatising the data of Greek entrepreneurs through the data of trademarks and that this is a great blow to the Greek economy and that, of course, this data is the dowry of the Industrial Property Organization you will then privatize. How many times have we seen this? We have seen them being granted to public property and rights that do not have private structures and private companies and then privatise these organisations without the state taking back its property and rights. And privatization of this kind has been seen before in the great 'CISCO' scandal where Mrs. Keramea told us that 'CISCO' is giving the telematics platform free of charge. And we finally saw that 'free' means all the data of teachers and students, plus 2 million euros. It is abolished, as we see in Article 56, and I have never been answered by anyone. Why are the fines provided for in Article 35(2) of Law No 2093/1992 abolished for illegal use or transport of heating oil? We are also on the side of the workers on the Scaramaga pier. We are also on the side of the residents, who in Haidari ask for "Problem 4", who has never been used by the Scaramaga Shipyards and which is an integral part of what society wants to become, the great archaeological walk of Athens. The great archaeological walk of Athens will begin at the "Bloko 15", the Memorial of Resistance, will go to the Park of Diomedes, in the sections of the Holy Road that have been preserved before and after the Monastery of Dafni, the second largest monument of Athens, UNESCO. The second memorial after the Daphne is the cementing Acropolis. And then it will reach the lake of Koumoundourou and the pier area of the Scaramaga. And you're the "Problem 4" to give it to individuals right now - they're in the extermination process - the Refugee Host Center, the Scaramaga Kyti. So to favour the big ones you will collect the activities in their hands, you make it easier to license. But move on to a licensing facility - simplification. So what are you doing, mostly? Empty with control after the authorisation procedure. The notification shall first be made and the checks shall be carried out. However, within the categories you also have activities in which we have had accidents in the past. We have procedures like a park, where we've had a lot of accidents with children's victims in the past. We got circus, ice-cream. We have daily care centres for elderly people, two-day and daily care centres for disabled people. We have life-saving schools, renting sea recreational facilities with too many accidents, with serious injuries to children and adults who still live the effects of accidents. We vote against this bill not only because it is the continuation of the New Democracy - KINAL - SYRIZA, but because it is the continuation of what the memorials have done, of the great attack on small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed to concentrate activities on very few entrepreneurs in Greece and abroad. What you're trying to do won't pass. But at the moment your choices really torture the great proportion of Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u27	I would ask that the Step be prepared sanitary in order for the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group to speak, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. Condolences for your father, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u28	Condolences.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President, for the condolences, as I thank colleagues, as well as the Prime Minister. Of course, political culture also proposes to thank the leaders of the other parties. I'm not going to do them the honors, because above politics it's people. And unfortunately some people forget that we are first human and then politicians. It's okay. That is why the political system has been devalued overall and overall. Let's get a little serious. I won't start with the bill. I'll start with Mr. Erdogan's statement. Because today the future is really at stake, not of the Greek EEZ. We probably don't understand here in the country what's at stake today at the meeting of Treasury and Erdogan. The value, dignity and national integrity of the country are at stake. When you invite someone home, you don't make him feel unwanted. Erdogan called Mr. Teddy. And he ran straight after the unfortunate trip to the Prime Minister in Libya to meet him. Erdogan, therefore, said: "We have said that we will not grant the rights of Turkish Cypriots and if necessary we will intervene." He's threatening with the second 'attila'. He continues: "Our ships are under steam and ready at any time to take certain steps, if necessary, as long as they learn to respect." Before the Foreign Minister of the country goes, Mr. Georgiadis, this is what Erdogan said an hour ago. You dialogue! Erdogan also says: "Turkey will proceed to seismic research and drilling in the Mediterranean as part of the Turklobian memorandum. You dialogue! Turkey claims, Turkey is also insulting us in dialogue! Of course, the worst of all, you know? It's that the Greek solution has been vindicated. The New Democracy betrayed - I really say it with a tomb - betrayed the Greek EEZ, making it virtually partial EEZ. Minister, Höftar himself - who should normally be supported by Greece - says: 'The Greek Government should have signed an EEZ agreement with the democratically elected parliament when it had the opportunity. This is where I have the evidence. It's Haftar's tweet. It happened two days ago. I deliver it to the New Democracy to see how right the Greek Solution is with the crime you do with the partial EOZ. The thing about us is that we have another worldview for the Turks. A worldview completely different. A perception perpendicular to the other political parties. What is that theory, Mr. Georgiadis? Satubriandos - you know him, Mr Georgiadis, as a historian - is a well-known form, an intellectual Frenchman, said: "To try to civilise Turkey by giving it steamers and railways, training its army and fleet, does not mean that we are expanding culture in the East, but that we are introducing barbarity into the West." That's what New Democracy does today. The New Democracy today, unfortunately, is the Trojan Horse of German interests in the wider area of the Eastern Mediterranean basin, and I say it with pain of soul because you are acting as the Trojan Horse. He is a Trojan horse of German interests. Do you want involuntary? I accept it inadvertently. Wrong human being. This mistake, however, becomes criminal because you are doing so serially. For us, then, one thing is true that the tactics of the Greek Government and the rest of the parties believe falsely that Turkey can become the West is a very great process of introducing barbarism into Europe itself. Understand that, insert the barbarity. That's it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would also like to inform the New Democracy and the other parties of something that the anger of the Greek people, Mr. Colleague, "When the buffalo fights, they pay the frogs." So in Ukraine there is a buffalo battle. Let the New Democracy watch out for making constant mistakes. We have no mood, no right, no obligation to engage in counteracting Ukraine, nor to send an army, nor to send ships, nor to intervene in favour of one another. Remember in 1919 the criminal error that that government made and how much later we paid it with blood of Greeks in Asia Minor. Mr. Minister is a Asia Minor. Isn't that right, Mr. Georgiadis? So let him remember and let him inform the Greek Prime Minister, who is a Cretan, that in 1919 we sent an army to Crimea and ate our faces, were slaughtered Greeks later. Be careful, you play with fire. Let us not be frogs too. Do you know what our philosophy is in the Greek Solution, colleagues of the New Democracy? We are in the footsteps of De Gaulle, of a great form that does not exist in Europe today. De Gaulle was talking about a Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals. This is Europe in our minds. Europe without Russia does not exist, understand it. That's our concept of De Gaulle's steps, and we're expanding it. For us Europe starts from Siberia, ends in Lisbon, starts from the North Pole and ends in Cyprus. This is Europe. Turkey does not fit into Europe. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would also like to say something to you, Mr New Democracy, that for me it is a oxymobile. For the betrayal of Macedonia, gentlemen of the New Democracy, it took a hundred and fifty “willing men”. For the change of electoral law and respect for the family, we need two hundred. Find the mistake. Of course, for Macedonia, I am forced to say that I have been sympathetic to Mr Javarra. But I hear that the 'usable' - not to say the rest because I do not like the word for Mr Javarra - who will be the rapporteur for the Skopje protocols. There I will see you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, how much national dignity there is left mainly for the Members of Northern Greece, the Macedonians, and the Thraceans, as well as for Mr Georgiadis, who is from Amyntheos. But don't make this spoon with SYRIZA. Mr SYRIZA - and this is how I say it in corruption and heated - Mr Tsipras had said that he would bring a roll-call vote. I hope it will bring the roll-call vote, because if it does not bring it, I will see you running before the elections. The gentlemen of SYRIZA will vote for the protocols. Some will allegedly be rebellious, you will not vote and you will go to the villages to trick the Greeks. I'll tell you one thing. You can trick a man once, twice, three times. But you can't fool him forever. The Greek got you a hammer. You'll collide in the next few months. It's for granted. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like to say our opinion of all the things that are happening, to go to everyday life. The view of the Greek Solution is that we want to do everything for Greece, everything for the Greeks, everything for the country, nation and Christianity, unlike the New Democracy that has a Government representative - I will say it shortly - who despises the "Father, religion, family" and "Greek Christians", not in the logic of exploiting the lousy doctrine, but in the logic of national dignity, pride and the existence of a nation. That's our difference. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So we say that only if you're ready to give up everything some think about, that is, power for the New Democracy, because that's for you everything, then you'll have everything. Unfortunately, you hand over everything to have authority. For you the authority is everything and the government. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] There is no justified sacrifice, ladies and gentlemen, for the chair. There is no justified discount on national issues, on economic issues, on social issues, to have a chair of a Member or a Minister. I am also referring to myself and to all colleagues. There isn't. But there can be no revolution without sacrifice. So you're going to make a sacrifice. And what's the sacrifice? You will sacrifice the party for the homeland. You will sacrifice your own party existence for Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, I see you every day in the channels and I'm happy for an old friend. I'm still a friend. Politically, we're not friends, I'm making this clear. We disagree vertically on many things. But don't we have the right to go out on the channels? Why should New Democracy call canals and say that the Greek Solution should not exist on the channels? And don't tell me it's not true, because I know it's true. The more good personal contact you have with journalists and channels, the more good we have, because I have been working on the media for years. It is shameful, I feel ashamed to take New Democracy's staff into television channels to be cut for two years and not to present the Members of the Greek Solution. I'm not talking about the president. I have two years to present, and I will tell you channels to SKAI, 'STAR', two years, 'ALPHA', one year, 'ANT - 1', three - four months, 'ERT', three - four months. As far as MEGA is concerned, it is not even from the outside that Mr Marinakis is a friend of the New Democracy. But it doesn't matter. And from 'OPEN' we do not even go outside Mr Savvidis, who deals with others. So you ruled us out. But I hear that you have some "pads" to attempt a dirty war against the Greek Solution in the next few months. We only respond politically. We'll never answer dirty and personally no one. I could also refer to tennis, but I shall not refer to it, because for me political controversy is made on the basis of political arguments and, above all, elegant and cosmic dialogue, with arguments. But I can tell you this. No matter how much you roll in the gutter, why you put your trolls, we won't roll in this particular gutter. Because we're bipeds, people, not quadrupeds. Quadrants are others. And we insist politically, nationally, Greek. So we'll talk in here and even in social media. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So you're preparing a coup d'état. How proud can the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative and other Members of Parliament be in here? I read the irony and chole of your current government representative, which says this. Listen, friends and friends. I don't know, it's not a make-up. He says: “In a year and a half we did what they did not do in twenty-seven, says Nikos Pappas. The truth to be called..." That's what Mrs. Pelonis says, Mr. Georgiadis. You know it. How do you all work with her? I honestly wonder why I know you're both impulsive and spontaneous. How? I read to you: "Mr Vassilis Economou in the New Democracy. These are not elections. It's the wedding of the clown... and: "I don't remember how many years we haven't seen a Greek Prime Minister hosting a foreign leader at the airport..." Pelonis: "The election result proves that the Greeks...", when you were elected Government and you have it for a Government representative, "... vote in the same way they go...", I will not say the word "...in the tolerance houses without condom..." you have it. I really do wonder how you're sitting together, how he represents you. I am continuing: "The bankruptcy of the two major parties is seen by the fact that within the madness of Vorides and Georgiadis they seem reasonable and mainstream. Great!'" They're crazy. "What Chrysohoid puts himself in the service of the country to save her, goes beyond me. Now you understand why there is no salvation, don't you?' This lady says it, the government representative. Let him go out and deny it. And another: "The Orthodoxy is an integral part of the Greek identity," says Samaras. Greece of Greek Christians... Welcome to the past." Is that what the democrats say? Also: "A little late the Prime Minister remembered foreign policy..." he says this about you. And Mrs Pelonis also says: "This "proud to be Greek" from the beginning I haven't liked... Except for bad taste, it turns out dangerous. Personally, I am ashamed and: "Only some have forgotten" to say that we would not have a negative verdict if Mr Karamanlis did not have public ads "heroic veto". That's what this lady says. What should I start? Are you with her? And is there not a Member of Parliament with dignity from the New Democracy or Minister to ask for her expulsion? Do you remain homogeneous and empathetic to this lady? I didn't even know Mrs. Peloni. I knew her husband had a relationship with George Papandreou. Listen to me, Mr. Georgiadis. Leave the advisor. Mrs. Pelloni's husband had something to do with Mr. Papandreou. He was his secretary here in the House. Isn't that right? What are you doing? You guys picking up all the strays? Where's the New Democracy party? Where is the voter who votes for the country, religion, family, the party of Constantine Karamanlis, your lord? Where are these people? You are not representing, Mr Simopoulos, just you. I'm talking about these gentlemen. What are the people in New Democracy who hate Greece, hate Orthodoxy, hate history? How does the Prime Minister keep them all? Look at their environment. And I'm stopping here because it's getting personal, and I don't want to personalize it. Mr. Georgiadis, I'll tell you the truth. In our view, there are three types of falsehood in the Greek Solution. The first is the usual. The second is destructive. The third is statistics. In the first, Mr. Georgiadis, you are first in all, in the usual lies. Every day you lie. Every day he passes, you lie. Your policies, economics, social affairs and national issues are destructive. They're destructive. As for the pandemic statistic you messed up and continuously pull numbers with fake evidence. So I wonder how the Members of the New Democracy, whom I honor and respect, are tolerated, because there is a party chair, so much lies are spoken by Mrs Peloni and by the ministers of the New Democracy? I'll tell you one - one to understand I'm not saying abstract things. First lie, the Prime Minister is in "STAR" and says: "There is no intrinsic patient outside the ICU." One hour after the interview, a patient dies because a respirator pulled him off - you remember the fact - outside of the ICU. That alone in another country would be the subject of resignation of the Prime Minister, for he lied in public. Second lie. The Prime Minister said "the mask is the vaccine to the vaccine". The man said it. He got a spot. He's been doing an order. Now he says we'll keep wearing a mask. So either he was lying then or he's lying now. Third lie. He told us here that he has studies that say that buses don't get stuck and now your experts say that he does get stuck in buses. The Prime Minister said he also has studies. He lied here in the House. It was recorded in the Minutes. Fourth lie, what you're telling us about the tests. You have your experts. Vassilakopoulos is your expert, not ours. We have our own scientific team with Mrs. Athanasios, our doctors. Vassilikopoulou says this. ‘falsely negative or falsely positive tests. You cannot rely on them." Because they're not molecular tests. They're the rapids and the odds you make, the pound, the oak. You got them from a guy whose -- I'm going to say it again -- the whole supply was scandalous. All of it. Smells like a scandal. It stinks. New Democracy cannot be intertwined with scandals and fewer masters. It can't be done. Fifth lie. You're lying about the vaccines, the masks and the tests. Someone's gonna do a self test on their kid, but then they're gonna wear the mask and keep a distance. It can't be done. To run the test, not to have, to wear a mask, to keep a distance. And at night sitting at his house, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, while telling anyone to wear a mask and see some at Mr. Papadopoulos in "SKAI" do not wear anything and jump and hug each other because they have done self test and have come in. Let me see journalists say 'we were doing self test, so we can be ten to fifteen together'. Why can't we be in church twenty - fifty - a hundred together if we take self test? I'll say. But molecular. No crooks. That's a sixth lie. These self tests are not the solution. We've been telling you all about it all along. Announcement of a Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, which "empties" the government and the Prime Minister: "The use of self-diagnosis tests is not a solution to combat pandemic. These self tests are not the solution. It shall not ensure the correct reception of the sample by citizens’. The Pan-Hellenic Medical Association is talking about molecules. So, when it suits you to terrorize the world, you use the medical club, when it doesn't suit you, you don't even consider it. Seventh lie. masks and negative tests. Negative student tests but necessary to use a mask in the hall. I mean, the kids are going to school, they're gonna run a test before they get in. That's right. But not what you're doing. Molecularity is what we say. Not mandatory. I'm sick of you, honestly. You don't understand one thing. The action brings a reaction. Compulsoryity is not a democratic process. You have to convince the citizen that he has to run a molecular test. But convince him. Not imposing it. Obligation on vaccines, compulsory tests, means bankruptcy of democracy itself. You charged democracy with your choices. Negative journalist tests allow them not to use masks. Eighth lie. They come out and say the waste is safe. You're saying it's safe for the waste that's from medical examination. Vasilis Lykos is a professor at a university in Crete, a specialist in analysis, assessment, risk management from biological and natural resources. What does man say? That it's dangerous to throw them away any minute. It's dangerous. These tests are dangerous to throw them in the trash. It's hospital waste. Lie ninth. Ice. Negative tests, tourists and Easter. Here's what your representative says. "We can't go to our village with a negative test." "But the tourist..." asks this journalist "may he come with a negative test?", Mr. Georgiadis. And she says: 'Yes, it is unfair, but it can't. Why would the tourist who comes for ten days in Greece to leave the 500, 1,000 euros - if he leaves them, why do we no longer care about them - and can't Greeks after doing the test to go to his village or to the church? You tell me why. That's a tenth lie. Theocharis' statement on tourists: "Greek citizens and tourists have the same rights". How do we have the same rights if I can't go to my father's island - he's forgiven now, but, anyway - or if I go to an island where his father is, he's seen him, even if I do a test? Foreign tourists send SMS? Oh, no. The Greek will run a test, send SMS. He'll do everything you want, but the tourist is a clear-cut vine. Well, that's not the logic. It's not like that. If he doesn't send SMS, will you send him the fine? Oh, no. 11th lie. Deaths outside of the ICU. Research carried out on the basis of EAFRD data. I won't read it. I don't like it. It's macabre. But you're always lying. 70% of the people who leave life are the ones who are intubated and waiting for an ICU. There's the painting, it's here. I'll testify to him. They're lying. 70% of people fleeing this futile world are out of my mind. Do you understand? That means that a year now you haven't done CFD. Don't you understand that? Honestly! I've come into logic now to start thinking it's a biscuit for you. A business is for you that story. Why am I saying that? The global cost of vaccination is about 150 billion. The property of two thousand three hundred sixty - five billionaires increased by 4 trillion in the pandemic. In a year of 4 trillion. Two thousand people took four trillions. Where did they get them? From the middle class. At the same time, PFIZER is increasing by 60%. Here's how pitiful those guys you're protecting. Not just you. Europe. You are following the steps of Europe, as you wish. Because there are more steps. At the time the planet needs vaccines, as you say, it increases the price of "PFIZER" by 60%. And instead of all the presidents coming out, all the Prime Ministers make a move together, we take it out loud because the pharmaceutical industries do business with man. Now listen. Who's responsible? I'm asking again once more. None of you answer me. Mr. Georgiadis is answering for other things. If anything happens to a relative of mine, the company has any responsibility, yes or no? Tell us at last. The one who wants to be vaccinated, if anything happens - away from here - will the company be responsible for the side effects, yes or no? Some of you made the vaccine. Today we had an incident with the Danish representative - Mr Chardalia's peer - who made the vaccine and collapsed at the press conference. I don't know why it collapsed, but all the Danes were shocked. That is all to be answered. People have questions. Really. The Committee states that the incidents are not related to the vaccine ‘ASTRA ZENECA’. Only the Greek committee goes out and says so. Everyone else has reservations. Jesus Christ! God you believe whoever you believe! Can the whole world have reservations about the 'ASTRA ZENECA' and only the Greek committee say that there is no problem? How do you guarantee this for a human life? How can you be sure? I won't say what's going on around the world. I would like to tell you that I told you here a year ago not to deal with either Lockdown or anything, but with SPUTNIK. Austria is taking 'SPUTNIK'. Italy itself. Germany itself. The Russians produce a 'SPUTNIK' vaccine for a German plant. The Russian pharmaceutical company ‘R PHARM’ will produce hundreds of millions. Thirdly, Russia's direct investment fund leader Dimitriev says that agreements have been concluded with Italy, France, Spain for the production of 'SPUTNIK'. I told the Prime Minister here, colleagues. September I said to him: "Go on to agree to do the factory. To make a single euro for Greece, none of the euros." To make money. I wasn't in a bad mood. Afterwards, most people made fun of me. And now other countries do it. We're telling you things that happen after months. Don't you understand that? We don't do it in a bad mood. We want to help, honestly. And let Caesar take all the glory called Mitsotakis. It's none of my business. The emperor, the Prime Minister. I don't care. To save people's lives, we want our children not to be experimental. And there are specific solutions. We suggested them how many times. First solution. We must produce the drug of monoclonal neutralising antibodies. It has been approved by the United States and by Coreper. I've been telling you for a while. Second solution. Antibody is a medicine. I'll tell you something most people don't know here. Ask a doctor. Lockdowns suppress the immune system. Vitamin D is produced by the sun. When you've got him locked up in the first disease, any disease will collapse. I'm telling you very simple things. It's not that hard for people to understand. Sunshine regions have fewer deaths. It is said by the British Journal of Dermatology. It's called researchers at Edinburgh University, Richard Weller. I'll give it all to the Minutes, stay in history. I leave all the studies here. But I'm doing studies. I'm not saying it's stuck or not stuck in buses, but I don't have any studies. Studies in real life. Extortion. You're blackmailing the parents. Do you think I love your child more than you do? Oh, no. That makes sense. So how do you blackmail parents to go do a test on their child's nose? How do you blackmail them? I'm telling you, molecularly. What are you doing to me like that? Get molecular. A citizen who can be curious, stubborn, foreigner, must convince him that democracy is right and that the plight of his brain does not have in any case. So get molecular tests on those who react. I'll say it straight away, I'm not going to the Nuremberg Treaty. You don't know that any argument for medical examination is medical intervention. You can't do it voluntarily or self-defence, Nuremberg says so, I don't say so. I'll leave that in the Minutes. You're also blackmailing the children. Friends and friends, we're all old. The most important part of the people must be Greeks, tomorrow of Greece. Because if the Greeks escape this pandemic that you say there will be Greece and the Greeks. You have to understand that. Any intervention medicine in children who are not even ill is child abuse. Understood. That's what medical science says. Ask eighteen, twenty, thirty doctors. Don't just ask your people, others say today and others say tomorrow. Self-test: do you know that the Biopathologists' Union, which are experts on the subject, has brought justice? No one tells you that, they hide it from you. Be good for my friend Adonis and his company in the New Democracy - the ministers were not to blame for the Members - they gave millions of media information, millions of them. Hence I understand the difficulty of canalarchs hosting us as Greek Solution. I do not understand the difficulty of enforcing the law. That's another matter. It's the salt card interpretation of the laws. That is why our democracy is squeezing and collapsed every day. Lockdown: Listen, we're going to drive the world crazy. I already told you. We've already had some murders, incredible things. But what's the worst? The professor of the Thomaid Analytical Chemistry comes out and says that in wastewater, because we are looking at the pandemic sewage, we have 100% drug growth and about 130% increase in antidepressants. We're gonna be depressing, you know? We're out of smile, do you understand? We don't laugh, we don't talk. We wear this malnutrition, it's not a mask - the mask comes in here, it's a malnutrition - and we don't see the expression of the other person, we don't see the expression of the person we love, we want to hug, we don't see them if they're sad, we don't see them. That's what the teachers say, not Velopoulos. You also framed the Church. I have before me, frankly, said that, and I wonder, all the study of a great university doctorate, Stylianos Carpathhi. You put the "Greek Hoaxes" - not to say a word that is not even journalists - to have me eaten, when I said that vaccines contain embryonic cells - I said it and I had tabled everything in the Minutes - and from chimpanzee some strange things. I had it here with my evidence. So he goes out, father Karpathios, Doctor of Bioethics at the University of Athens, is not an accidental person, and says that from the scientific study that they gave to the Holy Synod, to get the announcement to the churches and to say the Archbishop "try to do the vaccine" - some have removed the fact that it contains embryo cells. That's why the announcement came out, that's why the Vatican and the Pope are against it. So even the Church is trapped, even our Archbishop is trapped. I'll testify to the Minutes for the entire study. And I ask you: who priest, who metropolitan, who archbishop would ever say "go do the vaccine" if he knew he has embryonic cells from abortions? Even in the fridge! I'm telling you, it's not right to tell people that it's poor. I also have court rulings in Belgium, Germany that lockdowns and measures are unconstitutional and undemocratic. In Baimari, on 11 January 2021: 'Antagonists of the measures'. You continue the same violin. And say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u30	Mr. President, how much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u31	Two-three minutes, Mr President. Mr Georgiadis, some people say that young people don't rise, the generations that grew up with "do your job and don't look at others", "please make yourself comfortable and don't talk." Isn't that what we were talking about in the new generations? They're shouting and they don't get up, he says, young people. "But you're gonna pull the snake out of the hole," did we tell them? "Will you save the world?". Clearly, this generation will not react. Because they are trapped in computers, in games, in iPhone, in Samsung, on TV with Survivors, with the garbage that everyone sees together and there is no culture, there is no tradition and, above all, there are no positive messages. Sophocles, Mr. Georgiadis, for the courage he said: “Have courage when you tell the truth. You're never wrong." You, Mr Georgiadis, prove that you have neither courage nor truth. You make constant mistakes and it's not just mistakes, it's criminal. And go to the economy and close down here. New debts of 1 billion euros on tax in one month. Over 109 billion euros total old and new debts. Good. Here comes the pandemic in the economy, and they're dealing with whether they get a loan and go out on the market again. Don't you understand when you go out on the loan markets that they have to be paid? We must produce wealth, support every small and medium-sized businessman separately and not your best friends. One made laws to acquit his business mates and the other made laws to serve his businessmates with wind parks. Same thing you are. You're both flesh from the flesh of corruption. And New Democracy and SYRIZA, unfortunately. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'm ashamed to say it, because it's not the MPs' fault. Oh, no. The nomenclara, there in your leadership. But I'm going to tell Mr. Georgiadis that here's a good thing about man. The state cannot give, he says, money to the world forever because there is no money. So what does the government do to get the money? He's borrowing. But they have to be paid again, Mr. Georgiadis. Plan to develop Greece, with the Greek? Oh, no. Don't start with the casinos again. I can't afford the casinos. I want investments. A wealth production, that's what I want. Production units, which will be perpendicular to their production from raw material to the industrial product. That means produce products. And also, Mr Georgiadis, you are right. What do we call the Greek Solution? Neither tax it unreasonably, nor can the state close the shops and ask for change from shoppers afterwards. You close his business, but he pays his PPC, pays municipal fees, pays a lot of others. Or you break it and he'll pay it all together - where he'll find it - after a year. This is not called economic policy. That's called the glitter of the economy. You're making mistakes and I didn't expect you to do that, Mr. Georgiades, because you're an entrepreneur, you've dealt with production, the economy. How suddenly did you suddenly become worse than the last unemployed, unemployed who has no meaning? I don't get it. Competition for the feeding of refugees: 412 million. That is, 800m euros will give four of your best friends. Four best friends are the ones doing the focus, four names. Does the Greek people know about 800 million? Eight hundred million euros to feed them. To feed them, it means they're staying here, they're not leaving. And it's four years old. Just think about it. So for the next four years, we won't leave, we'll feed them, we'll water them, we'll give them money, and the Greek can starve out. It's not like that. I'll feed the Greek, I'll water the Greek, and if I give it to me, I give it to Pakistani and Afghan. If I don't have a spare, uninhabited island in his country back, we'll be done with the problem. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I also have in front of me the complaint, Mr. Georgiadis, a personal friend of yours. Mr. Georgiadis, I'm talking about Kurtakis. Do you know him? You know him. He's a good friend of yours. He's not mine, he was never my friend Yannis Kourtakis, but it doesn't matter. A complaint in the Prime Minister's office before he became Prime Minister. Another newspaper was set up, "PHILELETEROS", that is, Mr. Mavridis, who responds in turn to the distribution agency "ARGOS", which falsifies the releases of newspapers. In other words, two pro-government instruments, the "Parapolistics" and the "Pilleteros" say you are grifters. That's what they say. You're scaming, you know what I mean? The two of you inside. It's not SYRIZA or KIC. It's yours. It's yours. It's yours. Kurtakis accuses you of making a newspaper with money you found from here and there and the other accuses you of "ARGOS". Are we all right? Such a complication, such an essay, is it such a mess that no one can answer? Shall we all swallow it? And we're talking about the Kurtakis that this man has played games for the New Democracy and struggles so that we don't enter the House. Even now he's racing so our percentages aren't up, because he's your man. Your man, then, denounces you for corrupt ones. What can I say? Mr. Georgiadis says, tourism can be opened without the focus being opened. We're gonna put a tapera on them, too, Minister? I understand you're pushing, but it's not logical what you're saying to me. Are we gonna cook them up and give them a tapero? Or are they gonna stay locked in the hotel? And you know what? Stop with all inclusive. We need to change tourism. Finally on all inclusive, because taxis, cafes depend on tourism. When you have all inclusive, you kill the economy of Rhodes, Kos, Halkidiki, Crete, you finish it. Are we all doing a tourist plan together? Let's all do it together. But avoid all inclusive. "TUI" is co-owned and gives orders to Mr. Theochari and the Prime Minister for when it will open and when it will close. That's not reasonable. I'm closing, Mr. President. 'SIEMENS': two more years to clear the case for 'SIEMENS'. The SYRIZA Penal Code, of course, has made sure that any criminal responsibilities are dropped. The buddies here. The decision recognizes that the media have been given, but without guilt. So what does the court ruling say? millions of euros have been given, but there are no guilty men! To understand you've done justice, I'll say raw, like your face. Kourtakis says so, I'm not saying it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The president of the trial has resigned. These things are unbelievable. And I'm closing up here saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all honest in here. You're all honest. Everyone's honest. There is no corrupt MP. It's over and out. I can't return to any fraudulent or corrupt procedure, behavior, if I don't have proof. I will, however, give an example of what the Greek government means and not a party. The Maker's brother was unemployed. We go back to history to learn lessons, because I want Mr. Georgiadis to hear it. The "PHX" brewery asked for a driver. He applied. He was the brother of the Maker, the leader of Greece. The official responsible asks him: "Are you Plastira's brother?". And he says "yes" and they hire him. The general finds out. After he invites him to his house, he floats him and says to him: "If you need him, sit here and share every day my food a little bit. Not with my name and my family, because you're my brother, get a job." Do you know how many brothers have you discovered posthumous employees lately? Do you know how many you've done? Do you know how many praetorians you've made to defend your own party and not home? Hundreds of thousands. From 1974 until today, that exists. If this doesn't stop, we don't break the abscess and there's no merit and the good ones don't stay here, every Macropoulos from Kozani who wants to see Harvard with a scholarship will leave Greece. We, say worthyness and turn our children back, to make Greece really strong again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u32	We shall now give the floor to Mr Georgiadis, who will obviously want to respond to some of the issues raised by the President of Greek Solution. We will then give the floor to Mr Papathanassis and will now follow the list of speakers in a natural presence. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u33	I would first of all ask Mr Velopoulos not to leave as he does, mainly because he raised matters of personal courtesy and of civil courtesy require that personal matters be resolved beforehand. I am therefore going, Mr Velopoulos, Mr President-in-Office, and warmly condolences for the loss of your father - to the first staff who are the most serious. You referred very much to the New Republic's position on the Prespecies Agreement. All your criticism would be honest if it were true. I imagine "YouTube" you have. You can now Google search my speech at "Belgium", guest of the "VERGINA" TV, before the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, after a big rally in Thessaloniki, in front of two and a half thousand people, where I was asked the question: If we do not manage and the Prespecies Agreement is passed and you are government, what do you intend to do? So you will see in the video two and a half thousand people with great sensitivity to the subject and the spirits very well then, before Mr Kaloger - of course, you know him - and I will remember his name, very well known too - that if the Embassy Agreement is passed by the Greek Parliament, he becomes an International Agreement and the New Democracy commits, if it is a government, to observe it outright. In fact, I just said it underneath there was a very big fuss. Fortunately, cooler thoughts prevailed, and I explained to them the major one, that patriotism is not to do and promise the pleasant things. Patriotism is to serve the truth and the national interest. Anyone who disputes the Prespecies Agreement following the Greek Parliament's ratification donates the name 'Macedonia', in Skopje. Anyone who promises - whoever I am not saying personally - that he can do so is a liar and a crook! Because International Law is far beyond the laws of the Greek state, it binds the states and no state can violate them without consequences. So the New Democracy before the elections, in the greatest crisis that Greece was going through then, gave an honest fight not to pass the deal. Unfortunately, the agreement was passed by the Greek Parliament. As she said before her ratification and as we have all said in all our speeches then, if this bad agreement for Greece is voted on, there is no internationally legitimate way to cancel. All of you, therefore, are a false and politically dishonest speech. Because it plays with the legitimate national sensitivities of the Macedonians on an honest political path by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. And I repeat, all this election. But let us go to the second, and I will close with that, because if I answer everything - you left him, Mr President, thirty-seven minutes - on behalf of the Government, I would like another forty minutes. Let's not misuse time. Many of them were delusional and I do not want to answer them. But I shall reply to the second on staff, which has bothered me very much. And it bothered me for two reasons. The first reason, Mr Velopoulos, Mr President, is because you attacked Mrs Peloni for her previous tweet to present her unreliable and wondered how you were staying with her. Firstly, Mr Velopoulos, because you are a good Christian, I imagine the phrase 'the sinner first put the stone' will have heard it. Isn't that right? I, for example, would have raised this type of criticism if I had made it for someone else, I imagine I would have asked a great deal of question to those who are following me, since I myself would have the same criticism, I will not say for many, I will say a lot of statements from the past. We who are experienced in politics, know the concept of political time and how everything is judged at the right political time, which is what we learn in the first year as students in history science. Mrs. Pelonis is even worse. Mrs Peloni's tweet has written it as a journalist and it was certainly her right and her obligation as a journalist to criticise both the New Democracy and its officials. That was her job. Alas, if she was a journalist and all her tweets were supportive of the New Democracy. And should I say one more thing? It's an honor that she didn't erase. I'd rather she didn't erase them. I know a lot of people taking a chair and the first thing they do is erase them. I haven't erased them either. Because these are historical events and history you cannot write it down. You're going to judge Mrs. Peloni for the work she's doing now and for what she's saying now. However, because I saw you very sensitive - and this is mainly annoying me - in previous and subsequent statements - and with this I shall close, Mr President - I have made a Google search 'Belgium for Karazafair'. It has made a nice video by the former President of the People's Orthodox Alarm - as he had created for me, to see how fair I am in criticism - with your statements on Sunday and your statements on Tuesday of the same week. When, Mr Velopole, you have tens of thousands of videos of reversal of statements, which one could even call politically vulgar, coming here and abusing a lady in this way, it is vulgar and unacceptable. And you know, dear Mr. Velopoulos, from me you will receive respect when you show respect. Today's misery is to be deleted from the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, you obviously want the floor. Warm request, be brief in your intervention. Because we have not yet started with the Members of Parliament. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u35	I will tell the Minister, with all due respect, that his Greeks are probably mishapped in the New Democracy. I didn't find anyone. If you consider my criticism to be a disgrace, your right, because you are not used to withstand the criticism. I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u36	I'm sorry to interrupt. Mr. Velopoulou, you must put your mask on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u37	I can't speak with a mask, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u38	Well, then you'll get on the Step. You can't do that. We either stick to protocols or not. Don't you have a mask with you, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u39	I do, but I wear it when I sit. I can't talk to the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u40	Yeah, but we're all talking with a mask. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u41	I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u42	Okay, if you can't, speak from Step One.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, I told you that you've been miserable with Greeks. Looks like the university finished it a long time ago, so you forgot what that word means. Now you have used a phrase, "the sinner first put the stone". Very good. I didn't know you became Jesus. Jesus said that, not you. Jesus said so. So let Jesus go, because if you were good Orthodox, you would not close the congregations. Let's actually go. I mentioned what Mrs. Peloni wrote. I didn't say anything different. What he said. Is that a reporter with anti-national positions? Is that what you're telling me? What does a journalist mean? Do I only have an opinion against the country or do I have an objective opinion? Judging power, I understand. But taking a position is not journalism. The reporter's out of place. He's asking and judging power. This is where you say to me that the New Democracy has no ideology. Do you agree with what he wrote? That's the point, if you agree with what he wrote. As for the rest of the talk about LAS, if I brought the videos here to show what you guys were saying, what the fuck you guys have done, I'd need 15 hours to transmit them. But let go of that. I told you I wasn't going to personals. I speak politically. I didn't mention Skopje to you. I didn't even mention Skopje to Adoni Georgiadis. Do you know why? Because you're from Amphintino and you're a Macedonian, and I know that you won't vote for them. I am sure you will not vote for the protocols you will bring in the next few months. I'm 100% sure of that. But since you say that you will vote because the state is constantly on the table, I ask you: then why had Samaras thrown New Democracy for the Great 'no' for the Macedonian? Can't you be a Samaras? Can't you be Samaras for the price of weapons, for Greece, even if it's an international agreement? We're going to the international agreement. Now, as far as the 'wonderful path of the Prime Minister' is concerned, I did not say that he was dishonest, you said he was honest. You guys think saying he's honest, he's honest. I didn't say the Prime Minister was dishonest. Did I say that? But when you call "they're not a thief", "they're not a thief", "they're not a thief," something can be. I'm actually coming in right now. How honorable was the attitude of a party president when we went to the rally, skiing in Corinth? Is this an honest attitude? You tell me, after you're on personal duty. I did not personally refer to the Prime Minister and I will never speak. His right is to do whatever he wants, but my right is to judge him. Let's go to International Law. I won't criticize you, nor will I say anything bad for you. Seventy-two violations of the Prespecies Agreement signed by SYRIZA. For me, she's shameful, treacherous, but we're not talking about it. Why don't you do an examination? And it's a disgrace! Are you voting for an examination, yes or no? That's a bad deal. Okay, well, let's do an exam about why we got to the deal. You sign first. Now get here the paperwork for the exam, bring it to Mr. Georgiadis to sign it. Sign it. I need twenty signatures. Ten is us and twenty, thirty. We should do an examination not to put them in jail, but let's see why we've reached the shameful deal, the bad thing you're saying. You're not signing, Mr. Georgiadis. In the thick words, in the big words, you're the first. Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u45	I'm hanging up here, Mr. President. As for International Law, Mr Georgiadis, are you specifically the ones who have done the entire thesis, especially the particular man, the excellent historian, talking to me about International Law? So I'm telling you this: Go back to school, go to university, read Thucydides about the "righteousness of the mighty" and good morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u46	Good. The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has made a promise to the Greek people. He made the promise to reform the state. Among other things, the concept of reform includes the terms'speed','simplification', 'digitalisation', 'transparency', which, it seems, are not just words for us, but concepts with a substance that takes flesh and bone with the reforms that we bring to Parliament. So we are discussing today a draft law, which is synonymous with the concept of 'fast Greece'. All of this started with the first draft law that we brought as the Ministry of Development, "I invest in Greece", they continued with what they followed and will continue with what they are coming. And all this is a framework that speeds up all procedures and strengthens and supports investment in Greece. However, this simplification of procedures and the acceleration of investment - and a lot of the opposition has heard - that all of this is related to large groups, to large businesses - all that is about speed, simplification, support the ordinary citizen, the simple professional, the daily man, who needs to obtain a licence from a public service. As we are running the draft law, I would really like to ask whether it is the service of the great interests that, without inconvenience, a bio-professional professional can obtain a licence to run his simple car workshop or the motorcycle workshop or a training school, with the ability of the state - without losing any meaning of the power of the state - to be able to come retrospectively and control. So in the current "Notify Business" system and in what comes, the Integrated Information System, the OPS - AIA, will each and every one who wants to launch an activity, start very quickly and in the sense of transparency, speed and simplification of procedures, know exactly where the licensing process is. Of course, it remains the concept of approval to activities that need to be thoroughly monitored on the quality of the services provided. And these are parks, day care centres for the elderly, day care centres for people with disabilities. The approval procedure remains, therefore, as it existed, but in a more simplified form, in these complex and sensitive functions. We therefore lay strong foundations of confidence and respect between the citizen and the state. I would say that we are strengthening this relationship of confidence, that the citizen can declare an activity and that the state accepts this declaration, this declaratory act and accepts that the citizen is honest. And clearly afterwards he can do the check required for whether he has actually completed all the procedures for starting his business. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main issues that requires support is processing in industry. Some important steps have been taken. One of the most important steps, however, is the operation of the organised receptors, the industrial parks, that is. And we should immediately support the start of operations within industrial parks. Here too, we have to say that industrial parks, where they operate, support the regions, because the establishments, the industries, the manufacturing industry, offer more and better paid jobs. It is therefore very important to support processing activity by supporting organised receptors. And because there has been a great debate on the Oinofyta region, so here we have the largest industrial park in Greece, but it is not an industrial park. It is an informal industrial gathering, as it is in Kalochori, which would never have been possible to organise if we were not to proceed with this regulation of reducing the percentage of landowners, agree to be able to organise and operate this business park. And Kalochori is coming because it is very important that these atypical industrial areas organise them, for better environmental protection, and especially for the convenience of operations and the immediate start of operations in there. At this stage, therefore, in the Ministry of Development on the issue of trademarks, we have accelerated much and digitised the process, but it remains a process which seems to have been unable to speed up through the structures of the Ministry as long as international conditions require, or if the international reality requires, if you like. So here, what do we do? We are harmonising a regime, which in any case works in Europe precisely with these agencies, and transferring the power to issue the trade marks. And here we will be and you will be able, in the near future, to measure at what speed the signals will now be issued in relation to what has happened in the past five to six months. Those who have visited Caniggos Square could have their own view and knowledge of the difficulty of achieving such a ruse in this facility. And because, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have been running for four and a half years, I think that you too have an own view of signal delays and how important they are to be able to operate a business and, indeed, a business that must wait many times, perhaps two years to be sure that this trade mark, which has been registered, has been approved when the European Agency receives approval in two months' time. So we continue with one of the most important changes that we bring to GEMH and that is the registration of natural persons. What does that mean? Now that the whole of economic activity is recorded in a register, and we can start through this register to measure or support programmes that aim to strengthen vulnerable groups much better in terms of economic activity. We therefore have, in their entirety, all the economic activities and automatically this is linked to 'TAXIS', so that the citizen is not troubled and can register very quickly. One of the major problems we have encountered and face and try to resolve is the speed of subordination of investment projects and their integration. You know, it is very important that investment projects, which are now decades late to come to development law and at the same time to start operations, should be speeded up so that they do not delay. We are therefore trying to achieve a spectacular reduction in time, not only of the subjection of investment projects, but of their completion and bring it within the level of sixty - seventy days. And anyone who can understand what that means to the thousands of investment projects that exist in our home country will see what it really means to jobs, but also essentially to the investment multiplier who can have such an activity. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. I'm done. So, as far as the good executives who do the evaluations are concerned, without increasing their remuneration, we are simply giving the possibility of a higher amount per year, so that there is an interest in registries, that they can continue to do the evaluations, because that was one of the issues that was a cause for delays. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is changing. Clearly we are in the pandemic, clearly we very quickly want to meet where we were in February 2020 and very quickly to speed up our economy. But that is to happen, we must continue the reforms and aim at tearing out all the roots of bureaucracy slowly so that we can achieve what is desirable: that of rapid investment and public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. We are now entering the list of speakers with a natural presence in the first cycle. The first speaker is Mr Charalampos Papaderiou from New Democracy, who is called in Stepma. Mr. Haritsis will be followed by SYRIZA, Mr. Mulkotis from the Change Movement and Mr. Bukoros, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. And because so far there have been requests from parliamentary representatives, I propose that a parliamentary representative should speak for three speakers. I think there's no disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u49	Why don't we go every four speakers talk to a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u50	In any case, in that order I told you, the intervals will be covered, this three - one of the speakers with a physical presence. So there's no problem. Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u51	I think the Minister said so very well. I will therefore not add much to why the rules of this draft law are important, but most importantly, in my opinion, the fact that it comes to giving additional solutions. And so I think the government should do, suggest every time it sees a problem in the major issue we have, which is the liberalisation of entrepreneurship. And when I say that it needs freedom of entrepreneurship, the reason is extremely simple. Because, as we have seen with the announcements made by the Chief of Officer's Representation in the past few days, there is still a commitment in that country to what is business, as if it were dragging behind the chariot of the state. Here, therefore, the arrangements are all positive and I am very pleased that the Civic Opposition, at least today, in this bill, will come on the side of capitalism. That's how he has to do, that's the right way. It is the road that leads to the sure center and not to the center which plays like a needle that has lost its orientation. That is why you will allow me to comment on some of the issues which are also surprisingly important in the area of entrepreneurship. As you know and as you would see, since I imagine that you have all carefully studied what GSEW gave as an aid to the performance of the day before, with the gift of supposedly private purposes, you would notice that there is one fact that the forecast for the second half of 2021 is that 86% and 7.4%, which will also be recruited, will surely maintain the staff. 93.5% of the businesses involved in this investigation, which you referred to and on which you set your proposals, and 93.5% of them all say that they will keep the staff. This is a victory for Parliament, a victory for the country and the taxpayers, who have heard the government's suggestion since the first day of the pandemic pays to keep jobs. But at the same time it is also a prediction that things will go better. I would also like to say that in the same investigation - and I wonder why Mr Tsipras did not notice it - the fear of the possibility of closure of the operation - which is always a real problem for small businesses, always have such problems, but the pandemic has made it much worse. So fear that after a very good course in 2019 to 2020 it was reduced by 12 points, before the pandemic, when things went well, in the beginning of the Mitsotakis governance, has now increased between July and February by just 6 points, i.e. he is restrained. And I would like to say in the Minutes what may be missing from the 'cost' of what they gave President Tsipras to say what he said very nicely. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because there is one point I agree with and I want to raise it now. We'd said it before. I am a fan, as they say, i.e. I absolutely believe it. I think the President of the government has also touched on this and we expect to see what move is going to be made. And the Minister of Finance has said it, and Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has said it many times. The tourist package, not the focus. To reduce VAT is right. We must give an incentive but also an incentive to competition. Things cannot be cheaper in Italy, France, Spain than in Greece. I'm not talking about Turkey, but about the whole tourist package. You may not have had someone there by the coach, but I think since you came to capitalism, we need to speak in terms of capitalists. The provision in this investigation is therefore likely to be positive. And I say this because, if we put the results of the latest statistical survey that tells us about the turnover - and I only get you the volume index in retail trade - it shows that in January this index was at 99.3. I take the index without fuel incompletely because they change the image in a way that does not make us see the problem or the issues that trade has where you are now putting your attention to real capitalism. It was 99,3, when in January 2010 it was 97 and something and in 2019 in January, when you say that things were going well, it was 91,9, go to 92, but now it's at 100 in the pandemic crisis. I think that this will also be the case for the preparation of the new staff of the Economic and Social Committee. I'll submit it to the Minutes. It is therefore very likely that if you had included it in the staff - Mr Tsakalotos had obviously another job - he would have told you that there is a possibility that we might have what we say about abrupt growth mainly due to consumption, because consumption has been suppressed and it is possible that the measures operate health first of all and then economics, because health is the key issue of how the economy will return to some normality, if it comes sharply, it is obvious that we may have what we had for the summer of last year, which with that little opening went much better. That is why, together with the support of the taxpayers and the loans that the state has made to the economy, we have managed to reduce the damage. But there's damage and the damage will be shared. The damage can't go away. He can't take it from the state. You'll either be capitalists normal or you'll say we have a state to do everything. If that's the case, you say it and we talk about it. In addition - I will give it immediately afterwards - it seems to the indicator that ELSTAT has given that it is doing a V, that is to say it is making this stumbling up in January still. Imagine doing what Mr Georgiadis promises to do. So I was saying that we should wait because even the indicator that is extremely safe - and I suggest that you look at him carefully now that you come to this school and look at the indicators carefully - the indicator of the economic climate, which is the basis of the things to be shaped, that is, trust, has gone to 97. It is an excellent performance, considering that 2019 ended on average, that is, together with our aid, in 93. So this is where we've been on the right track. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. Finally, by invoking the trade unions' always very strong positions on this side of entrepreneurship, you should look at a survey done by GSEW in August 2019 which concerned what had happened so far, that is at the end of your government service. You will see, then, that at that time small and medium-sized enterprises also found a problem that was called arrears. 35% had a late payment problem, 15% at the same time had arrears in public and insurance funds. In fact, people were saying that the barrier was taxation. Now they are not saying the same thing because they realize that there is no reason to say it, here we are striving to find a way to reduce it and it has already been reduced in many cases and will continue to fall as soon as the economy allows it. So let us, I would say, look at all these measures, as was the proposal on micro-credits, which we happily voted on together. Let them work, let the economy return in front, and that's where we'll judge. I am sure that we will be able - and I hope together - to vote for measures that may be at the expense of the budget, but they will be necessary to support further the businesses in 2022. But let's first see how things go. Don't rush to gather votes, we've been running till the election! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u52	We will now give the floor to Mr Alexis Haritsis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I will confine myself to the issues of the bill, because time is limited, although there have been many interesting and interesting sounds, but also because I think I ought to restore reality - and forgive me the personal report - as I was responsible as the rapporteur for the reforms that SYRIZA has made in this field during his governance. In fact, let us see exactly what is happening, because there have been various inaccuracies these days in the debate on the bill, in fact in 2014 a legislative intervention by the government at the time had been attempted towards simplifying authorisation procedures for businesses. However, this legislation was a chaotic and practically inapplicable legislation. Indeed, there has also been a Memorandum of Understanding for our own government to reform this dysfunctional framework. What we have tried and finally managed was the full modernisation of the business framework and the improvement of the economic climate with an integrated reform, a legislative initiative by which we created this transition from heavy, fragmented and inefficient standard licensing procedures to a substantial integrated audit procedure. This was done with two very specific legislative initiatives, with two bills which, after the inter-ministerial work of months that began in October 2015, came to Parliament and were voted on and I must say that they were passed with broad consensus and that was positive. These are the twin bills of 4441/2016 and 4442/2016 to simplify the procedures for setting up companies and for the new framework for economic activity. Legislations which, as I said, were passed by a large majority and which speeded up the start-up process, simplified procedures for consistent entrepreneurs and strict sanctions for offenders. A framework with an active involvement of the public administration, by transferring the weight of control to the actual time of operation of the undertakings, ensuring effective protection of the public interest, the environment and public health. Following these reforms, with Law 4512/18, we introduced uniform principles and procedures for supervision and controls, while in June 2018 we launched the integrated information system for the exercise of activities and controls, starting with the digitisation of all licensing and auditing mechanisms. This reform took place in phases, it became gradually. In the first phase, therefore, sectors of the food and beverage industry were included in this new framework, health stores, the tourism sector, the tourist accommodations. In January 2018, the mining industries, environmental infrastructure, processing activities and their specific issues and the supply chain sector were examined. At the same time, we have made it possible to simplify the procedures for the location and establishment of these activities, and then there have been other sectors in relation to livestock farming, the fish farms which have slowly joined. And now, after all this reform work, because I have attempted as briefly as I could give the history of this effort, with almost two years' delay, at least it is good that they fall within the framework created by the SYRIZA Government and the remaining economic activities. That is why we are voting in favour of the completion of this reform. However, this self-evident step, which is being taken - and I repeat, it is good for the completion of this reform - is not enough on its own. A number of other conditions are needed to complete the reform. Just get one example. Three years ago, as I said before, we proclaimed the integrated information system. Three years later, we still have no contractor in this work, even though we have given the current government a competition at the stage of opening up the financial tenders. What's happened? Why is there this huge delay? How will the reform be completed without the information system? And, of course, the most important of all, which is the crucial issue here, is the issue of controls, because when you move the centre of gravity from advance licensing, typically sometimes bureaucratic, to a substantial control process during the real operation of businesses, the crucial one is, therefore, the control mechanisms here. And since I mentioned the controls, I would say that because, unfortunately, you have - the New Democracy - a witnessed past and present, we will be watching very closely, despite the vote, the implementation of this reform, particularly in the audit area, which is very critical to us. We are talking, however, about controls and I see some amendments, which are tabled, and while, on the one hand, we have a positive step with an amendment that enables CVO officials to join inspection workshops for development law projects, at the same time we have a development which, in fact, is a question for me and I think it is too backwards. I am referring to Article 10 of Amendment No 842 which you tabled yesterday. Ad hoc jurisdiction is given to the Minister to decide and choose the persons constituted by the audit bodies of the investment projects. Are we once again returning to a parallel control system that undermines the existing system and open to opaque transactions? Are we going back to opaque and diabetic procedures, which we have been putting behind us in recent years with a lot of trouble? I think we need a very clear answer here on the part of the Ministry because it chooses this type of regulation, with which we obviously disagree. And, of course, because I know that the argument that will be heard is the argument for speeding up, I would remind you that we were the first to try to accelerate the completion of the investment projects in the development law. I would remind you that in 2000 we were inherited by the previous government of five and a half thousand investment projects, which were still incomplete, in the drawers, by investment laws of 2011, 2004 and even 1998, which we went ahead with. And I come - Mr President, you will allow me to need your tolerance for two minutes - and Article 32, Minister. First of all, I should like to open up a more general parenthesis. I have heard what the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanases, said before, in relation to industrial areas, in principle, in relation to industrial activity. It's right what he said. To see what has happened in practice, however, and what we have done during our governance was to take initiatives in order for industry to refocus on our productive model. We have therefore completed an operational plan for the development of business parks, where, for the first time since our government, the informal industrial gatherings in the country have been recorded with documented figures. To give you the data, four hundred and fifteen institutionalised areas with industrial uses of a total of thirty-three thousand acres were recorded by us, an eighty-eighty-nine-nine-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-bundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-h-h-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundy-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-th-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-h-hundred-hundy, finallys, long-hundy-hundy, finallys, finallys, finallyederederederedinginginginginginginginginging, finallyederedinginginginginginginginginginginginging-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thundredthundredthundredth-life-thunding, then, then, then, then, then, then. Unfortunately, in the past twenty months there has been absolutely nothing in this direction to go ahead with all the work that has started in previous years. And I come in this whole context and on the subject, which is, of course, the intervention of the Oinofytas and the restoration of Asopus. Winefruits, in fact, and Ashos are the most emblematic case. It is also the largest atypical industrial concentration we have in the country. They operate over a thousand units. Who wants to invest first, because I have heard this in the committees too, is not the result of words. And let me say, during our term of office and at the Ministry of Development, we managed to create a comprehensive strategy for this very important issue and we did so in good cooperation with all the stakeholders, with the region of Central Greece, primarily the Municipality of Tanagra, with ETVA, with the Association of Industries of Central Greece. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the cooperation we have had all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Haritsis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u55	I know, Mr. President. If I may just one minute, because it's serious. The overall project for this resolution was EUR 250 million, of which we after negotiating with Europe, guaranteed public participation, national and European, so the remaining 115 are coming from the private sector. This whole process was crystallined into Law 4605/2019 of our own government. Let me point out here that the government's recovery fund programme provides for only 100 million for all the country's business parks. Where will this money first be? But, for this matter again, what is the design currently in existence for this particular case? What's the design for the Oinofytas? The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Two years have passed, and we have not even tabled these studies. So where is this case? And you are now coming with Article 32 and you are abolishing the 55% consensus already in existence since the 2011 Act, not by the SYRIZA Government, and you are essentially turning responsibility to the private, industries and businesses for the fact that this project does not go ahead. But - and this is our fundamental difference - you cannot take the social consensus forward with such an important investment and with the protests that exist at the moment by the operators, who, of course, point out to you the obvious, that there will be actions and that these actions will be further delayed by such a burdensome, so late work, such a significant investment. This cannot be done in the absence of businesses located in the region for twenty and thirty years. It can't be seen in local society. And, of course, this also creates a reciprocity. What's going to happen in the future? What, for example, is going to happen in Kalochori, which is the largest equivalent industrial concentration in northern Greece, where we gave you a study in 2019, an integrated study, which, unfortunately, has not progressed at all since then?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Haritsis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u57	And that's where we're going out of industry? How will this story proceed? I think this is where we see the two different perceptions of how we move on to industrial development in the country, whether in the absence of industry or in the interpretation of local societies or with them. We call on you, Minister, not to go ahead with this unilateral action, to support also an attempt to create consensus conditions for this investment to be completed with the local community, along with the established companies, and not in the absence of them. Thank you very much and, Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u59	Does your intervention aim at any of the things that have been said? Minister, you'll be speaking in an hour. Pick it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u60	Wait a minute, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u61	Okay, for a minute, you have the floor, Minister. Besides, you have the floor anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u62	I thank you for the constructive criticism, but perhaps I should give you some information, so that you do not have to be exposed without wanting it. I am going over the bill and positive vote and going to this particular one, which needs answers, to understand what is going on in the country. For the reforms that you mentioned that you have done, apart from the simplifications, which many of my speeches have said that we are continuing your own reform and I have never said anything contrary to you that you have never admitted if you have continued something from us, I am actually in order not to waste time on the self-evident. You said you changed the Public Procurement Act, Law 4412. And then, at a later turn in your speech, you blame us for the humiliation of awarding the tender for the integrated information system and, indeed, you said two years' delay. So let's go and see why this House voted for almost two weeks ago the new public procurement law. Indeed, you started the competition with the integrated information system, which I very much want it to end. We all want it. It's very great to end. It'll change everything in public contracts, in public. Two companies arrived to compete. The contest was awarded at one. The other company went to court. Lost the insurance measures, lost the main lawsuit. And we say, well, let's go do it. On May 17, after the Society of Intelligence decided and definitively ratified the majority, last day of law, the other company appealed to the information society practices. By appealing to the practices of the Information Society, it is blocking the signing of the Convention! This is all because of Law 4412. The reason why the contract has not yet been signed is the public procurement law that you voted on. So you come here to me for changing your law because I realized that he was nice on paper, but in practice he couldn't end a single public contract, and you tell me why I haven't awarded the contract! A contract that can't be awarded because the law you have created is a mess! Well, that's what I'm sorry about. I'm a very calm man, but when I feel unfair, I explode. [[Laughers]] Yeah, okay, it's not calming my main feature. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u63	Come on, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u64	But think, on the last day, after two and a half years have been in competition and lost in the courts, he has also made an appeal to the practices! Uh, excuse me, so the state can't work, dear Babey. What capitalism? Even Carl Marx didn't think you could destroy an economy that way. He'd thought many ways to destroy savings, but he hadn't thought of him! And I'm making an appeal here. I am generally a man of good faith and understanding. However, when some companies now misunderstood and systemically implement all these measures, because they want to ultimately harm the state, we should think about what the state should be doing. And I leave it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u65	Good. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has been taking over for twenty-one months, saying that it reformes and continues to reform education, health, social security, labour, the legal framework for entrepreneurship, the development framework. In October 2019, the bill entitled “Investing in Greece” has been passed here in Parliament. As a piece of legislation is judged in practice, the data tell us that seventeen months have passed and we are still looking for the serious investments that would contribute to changing page for Greece. Obviously, for the Change Movement the initiatives that simplify procedures to enable someone to enter an economic activity were and are always welcome. It is known that Greece is classified in the ease index of the World Bank business very low, according to the 2020 report on items 2019. Even the report of the recovery plan, now in 2021, recognises that reforms that focus on improving the business environment and simplifying the regulatory framework are needed. So the situation has not changed much for almost two years. Our rapporteur directly asked the committee but also today what has happened with the business parks, which are also a pole of the axis of the Recovery Fund. There was no answer, actually. The truth is that the provision of Article 12 of Law 4635/2019 “Investing in Greece” for organised receptor return services has not been applied, as has also been pending the transfer of communal and public spaces in case of the transfer of management from the EPA to the EPA. So the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is very little what has been done for industrial parks to date and now everything is referred to in the Recovery Fund "Greece 2.0". The Minister told us that the Oinophyton Park, which brings a regulation to this bill, is one of these realities that make you realize that Greece has not yet been able to move into a normal European country, unfortunately. He also recognised that it was the country's largest industrial park, but it is actually an industrial park that was not founded and was never built. In other words, the Minister wants to tell us that seventeen months after any delays, he is now coming and regulating under Article 32, removing the essential condition for ensuring the consent of 55% of the landowners to take a decision on the organisation of an informal industrial area in the Oinofytas, and that, without adequate consultation and, of course, underestimating the justified reaction of the local society, which was also reflected in the committees. At the hearing of the bodies, both the opposition of the Municipality of Tanagras, represented by the mayor, as well as the Chambers' Union and the representative of the BIPI were clearly expressed. So why are all of these negative in Article 32 of the bill, an article of which mayor Tanaghs and the president of the EBEA asked for the withdrawal? Mr President, in the Minutes of Parliament and in the decision number 4-9-4-2021 of the Tanagra Municipal Council on this matter and authorizes the Mayor of Tanagras. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They don't want to be the industrial park? Apparently, no. Apparently, they do. It doesn't make sense. They want to be the industrial park. Is the park necessary, but does there not have to be any elementary information, an elementary consultation? Aren't some prerequisites needed to obtain a reasonable consensus that the law requires to date? It's never been. There isn't! And of course, ladies and gentlemen, under Article 32 of the bill, I would like to inform you that they are still undoing: First, the 74-2016 Pact of Intent to Co-operation of the Regional Administrator and Mayor of Tanagra for the development and implementation of a business resolution and development park of Oinophilus. Secondly, the agreement of 244-2017 intent to cooperate in the development and implementation between the Region of Central Greece, the Mayor, the Association of Central Greece Industrys and ETVA - BIP. These pacts have been tabled to the committees during the debate. For these pacts and that there is opposition and reaction to the committee, and Mr Michalos said that the implementation of the resolution with the construction of a park in areas with an already established system of informal concentrations and with businesses in operation requires a long and painful consultation and information process. He also stressed that this is why it is intended to convince the parties involved about the benefits of organization and building and that only then is a necessary and sufficient prerequisite for the resolution plans to be able to proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we all doing? Should we accept, yes or no, and welcome the fact that the country's largest industrial park - as indeed the Minister named it and so it is - is presented to us as a natural fact to lead us from the 55% required consensus in the decision of the one article, without exhausting the consultation or even having a minimum consensus rate of less than 55%? Let it be under 55%. But what's going on here? This Rule 32 does not refer to any percentage, to zero! I cannot understand why this provision has this regulation and this provision. Because at such a rate we cannot say that there are conditions for consensus and greater acceptance of certain specific plans. And I repeat. We all want reorganization and the creation of the park. The implementation, therefore, of the resolution by building the Oinophitas park, with atypical concentration and business in operation, clearly requires a long and expressly long and painful process of consultation and information, because it is intended to convince the parties involved about the benefits of organisation and urbanisation. Only then, ladies and gentlemen, can the resolution plans proceed, and the committee was rightly referred to as a clear provision by the legislator of the 55% consensus. And to make it clear, the attempted documentation by the Minister for the need to amend paragraph 13 of Article 56b of Law No.3982/2011 with Article 32 of the Oinophils Act does not appear to be convinced. Only for the Oenophils! So, for the other parks, that's 55%. I do not know whether this can stand up to the possibility of recourse, in relation to equal treatment or not. It continues for the other parks except for the Oinofytas. There are, of course, ladies and gentlemen, many issues, but also questions that concern the local society and the wider world to the extent that it has been informed, because there is no information, as I have said. For example, I will mention questions, but also issues that exist and I conclude, Mr President, that there is a pre-estimated area of eleven thousand five hundred acres for the organization of a business park, in which there are enclaves of informal industrial concentration around the wineflies - you have heard! - five thousand nine hundred twenty-one acres, as well as five thousand five thousand, seventy-seven acres. Obviously, the majority of the established industries there - that is, the five thousand nine hundred twenty-one acres - exceed 50+1%, the democratic principle, of course. So, is there a disagreement in this "50+1%" that is already installed to make a park? Is there a disagreement on setting up a business park in establishments - regions? From there on, there is another question: do we know the inner areas, the five thousand five hundred seventy-seven acres, what is happening here? Are they aware? And we are talking about farmers, we are talking about another situation in general. What are their rights and what are their obligations? Do they know? No briefings! It's very clear to be clear. How much has it been estimated that they are worthy of any projects as infrastructure projects in this area? What are the rules to be done and on what terms will the contribution to land and to money be made, and what obligations will these infrastructural regions have to make in contributions to land and money? And as far as the structured area is concerned, are those in the built-up area prepared to pay the contribution in land and in money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Mulkiotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u68	Obviously - and I conclude, Mr President, and I am very sorry - we do not accept the need to adopt the amendment, as is the case with Article 32 of the bill. It would be advisable - and we agree and we will have to demand that there be - a study, consultation and information and that we come back here and talk about it and see what is happening, because it is only by consensus that these procedures should go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u69	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokos, has the floor. And by the way, until the Step is ready, the next quarter of speakers will be Mr. Simopoulos, Mrs. Fotios, Mr. Gikas, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr. Tsakalotos and then the Minister for Development. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be talking about the important issue of Atypical Industrial Mergers and Business Parks, but I would like to start with the good news of the day, since today, definitively, as things show, a horizontal vaccination of all adults of eighty-five Greek islands has been decided, to which we should also add eighteen islands, in which either the vaccination has been completed or the first dose has been made. The European press's comments on the success of the vaccination programme in Greece are two-tracked. Consider having an adequate vaccine in production and disposal! It is characteristic that the "DAILY MAIL" really congratulates the Greek state for the success of the project ahead of the opening of the tourism project, says that the Greek islands will be ready to host the tourists on May 14th if they will be "COVID-free" islands. It is, if you like, in the difficulty of supplying vaccines presented by the global pharmaceutical market, a great achievement, and it proves that the government has a design. It has been designed to relaunch the economy and society. So, by the end of April, the horizontal vaccination of populations, which affects over 100 islands, I think it gives excellent prospects for this year's tourist season, which we hope will have nothing to do with the tourist season of last year. However, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill shows that the Government and the Ministry of Development are working with a plan for relaunching for the post-collection period. You will allow me - after the good news of the day for horizontal vaccinations on our islands - to start with the issue of informal concentration of industries and of industrial parks. Of course, the big problem is the Oinofytas and Kalochori of Thessaloniki. As I come from an area that has been reluctant to highlight and improvise that it has the best industrial areas in the country, organised industrial areas for 50 years, the 1st and 2nd Volos Industrial Area and the Volos Biotechnic Park - and we are also ahead of the finalisation of the studies for a 2nd Industrial Area - I would like to tell you, in the first place, that industrial development requires business parks. Otherwise, it is unregulated, uncontrolled, anti-environmental and, in the end, purely non-economic activity. Activation within industrial parks must certainly be the case for reasons of building, for reasons of economics, for reasons of the environment, for reasons of infrastructure economy, and a thousand other reasons could be mentioned. However, over-regions often delay the development of industrial areas. You know very well that initially Volos and then Patras - their industrial areas - selected the management model of the self-managed industrial areas. And, indeed, it's a model that goes ahead. The issues that these operators manage industries were their relationships with the relevant LAGs, namely, what the services offered for the operation of the industrial areas are and what the shareholders of such a region, i.e. the operators, actually, pay for the services offered by the relevant LAGs. This has been sorted out in a way. What has not been regulated - and I had made several parliamentary interventions in the days of the previous government - is the possibility of participating in co-financed programmes of the self-management bodies in industrial areas. These bodies were therefore not included in co-financing programmes, in the sense and on the grounds that they represented large companies, they were constantly rejecting this request. But there's another body and another company. The body is an independent body which is mainly responsible for the proper functioning and development of industrial areas. And it is firmly and firmly my view that these bodies should be included in the co-financed programmes to make the roads to make the lighting of these areas, to make the fibre optic networks, the water networks and, more generally, to give added value to the industrialised regions, so that they can attract new investments. Now I have heard a number of issues about the Oinophilus issue and what will happen with the land owners and what will be their value and what will be their role and what will be their consultation. That sounds all very well. However, I firmly believe that the self-management body must have the primary role. We are not talking about either an urban area or a tourist area. So if we look at the current prices in the rest of Greece and the other industrial regions, it is certain that the value of the land of these people who will join the craft park will be greatly increased, because the value of land in the industrial parks, business parks and industrial areas is de facto much greater than the value of rural land. A glance at the current prices will convince us all. Being pleasant or trying to reach large audiences or organised audiences is legitimate. However, it is more legitimate that the procedures should go faster. Of course, studies which have not been carried out may have been prepared. So I say to you that industrial regions and business parks need self-management and a framework from the state, a framework that will favour freedom of business, given that there will be no environmental compliance within industrial areas and urban values, and that there will be a better functioning of businesses. I am closing with this to go through the competence of issuing and guaranteeing trademarks instead of the Ministry of Trade's services by the Industrial Property Organisation. I certainly believe that this regulation is also in the right direction, because trademarks are the intangible property, the intangible capital of industries and businesses, such as patenting or anything else and the trademark has the same financial use. So it's goodwill, it's intact. I think that the Industrial Property Organisation, which is a legal entity of private law, but is part of public software, is part of the IAS in terms of recruitment and is a body of the general government that ensures speed and flexibility for this delicate issue, such as trademarks. From there now on, Minister, I would like to tell you that the leadership of the Ministry of Development is doing a very good job. When there are now consortia with other Ministries, the Greek maliciousness is invading. I see that you are developing speeds, because while we have been talking about large businesses, the Industrial Property Organisation and industrial parks, I see that your bill favours small and medium-sized enterprise, which is a large part of our economy. Why is it bad, ladies and gentlemen, to improve a pre-existing law to get greater speed in licensing small and medium-sized enterprises? Adonis Georgiadis comes neither to break down the law of 2016 nor to slander him at all. He's coming to improve him and extend him. And it does so to limit the personal contact of stakeholders to engage in business with the relevant services, personal contact that has given birth to many pathogens. I do not want to talk now about the suffering, neither about the 'fast signals' nor about all these phenomena that have been afflicting us for two hundred years in this country. We are talking about the opening of business with the obligation of the businessman. What businessman? For example, the Navigator Training School, the Professional Training Schools, the car workshops, motorcycles, motorcycles, car parks, and heavy-duty parking areas that we need particularly in urban areas. So an announcement and the file on the company. So the businessman always keeps in mind that he will be checked and will not think that some service will do him some service and that he is done forever. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand, Minister, which you did not mention is this: this process also helps the audit authorities to plan their work, because with the announcement on the platform, the services will stop saying that I have no staff, I have no employees, I have other obligations. They will therefore be able to plan the checks and see whether the one who started the operation has completed the dossier. With regard to other businesses, such as leisure activities, the daily care centres of the elderly, the WHEIs, etc., the rental companies of marine recreational media, the bill defines very well the status of approval, because if you notice, you will see that all these activities have to do with mass involvement of people and the conditions should be much more stringent. That is why we are going there, in the process of approval, and then in the operation of operations. Minister, I would like you to continue modernising the legislative framework. The speed and the facilitation of business combined with attracting investment that, if you like, leads to the preparation of such a climate for the post-funny period, I think it is the only way that the country can go. "Reforms, reforms, reforms, investment, investment, investment" is the recipe that can take us from the consequences of the pandemic and from the long economic crisis. I close by making a comment that arises, if you like, as a result of my professional position. I hear a number of comments about the Government's representative. The Minister for Development answered, Mr. Georgiadis. Here we are confusing everything and, if you like, we are making a selective approach to the issues and to the political 'people'. We live in a country where a Prime Minister made 'no' 'yes' overnight! We live in a country where political forces are saying Friday and other things on Monday! We live in a country where several opposition parties are protesting because media and journalists do not play their part, have been bought, etc. The journalist's planting and placing his criticism of every authority. Are we going to lie to a former journalist for criticising him as he had a duty even to parties and to people with whom he might have shared the same or similar ideology? Time doesn't matter anymore, but does it matter? Let me say that this kind of opposition is outdated and outdated. Looking for what someone said five, ten or twenty years ago doesn't matter. What matters, above all, is what we all do today to get out of this multi-faceted crisis, which the pandemic has intensified. This is my personal view and I think there are more serious and more substantial areas of opposition, either from the parties or the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u71	Good. The next speaker is Mr Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, can you tell us the order of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u73	As I said before, after Mr Simopoulos, it is Mrs Fotiou, then you, Mr Ghikas, are Mr Tsakalotos as Parliamentary Representative, and then Minister Georgiadis. Here, Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Minister, those governments that are oriented into detention spend time in order to create procedures for controlling each aspect of economic activity. 'Concentrational planning' means it when it comes to central policies. This culture is then spread throughout the public administration. A key aspect of the process is always the unrelenting effort to close any possible "holes" of illegality by adopting suffocating legislation. In order to block an illegal man, they make life difficult for ninety lawmakers. That logic has brought in the notorious autopsy. In other words, when the operation of a company began for the first time, or made a transfer of seats, the costs of the installation had to be certified by means of a personal visit and the so-called 'lisverissi' of course started. The whole political spectrum is governed by this culture, but most of all by the supporters of the state of state with the parallel creation of captains in the public, small sultans and emperors. From such a culture, the government is trying to get us away from this bill. It is a section, and I am sure they will have similar arrangements for other fields of economic activity. It is an intervention that follows from the building auditors, the controls on the performance of pensions by certified individuals or environmental auditors. Where the State fails to cope, it cooperates with the private sector and, at the same time, simplifies the procedures. I understand, of course, the reaction of workers to the transfer of the trademark certification procedure to the Industrial Property Organisation. It is similar to those of their colleagues who have echoed because the Ministry of Labour has introduced a procedure for the issue of pensions with certified lawyers and accountants. Behind the prophecies in sin hide their anxiety that their influence on the control of procedures is reduced. They will not get nervous if the retired or the professionals wait for years to be served. A relationship of public confidence with the citizens and professionals who have been suffering for decades from an irreversible public attempt to guarantee the government. This whole process does not, of course, mean that the state's ultimate role will cease or the controls will cease. This is why the fear of certain trade unions in the various sectors for entry into the market of professionals under conditions of non-compliance does not apply. Nor, of course, must their fears of entering a large number of professionals into their profession prevail over a reformed bill, thus increasing competition over a period of time with many problems in the economy. Reducing bureaucracy releases forces and pushes ahead with the economy so that everyone who is active in it can benefit. The bill also contains necessary arrangements for the logistics sector in which our country must focus in the coming years. Significant regulations for this sector are already introduced in the labour bill. I am also standing in the arrangements for the Entrepreneurial Park in Oinofitas, and I call on the Government to move accordingly for the respective industrial and craft concentration of the Kalochori and on the Pontou Street which is next to the Kalochori industrial area simply above the national road. The conditions are mature. It will be a great offer in Thessaloniki which can be combined with the exploitation of the Gonos camp. I am sure that, and for this bill, there is a consensus of the largest part of the counter-population, there will also be for the Kalochori-Ponto business park. Minister, with this bill you put another crusader on the canvas of growth in Greece, with almost a cross-party consensus. Of course, I support your efforts, but also the entire government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you to Mr Simopoulos and to the economy in time. He has asked for the floor, Mr Georgiodas, the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, because it is urgent to depart for a journey to develop the amendment and immediately Mrs Fotou will have the floor. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There is an amendment tabled by a general number of 843 and a special 59, which is the possibility of granting temporary AMCA to all natural persons who do not have either a social security number or a so-called AHSF, or who are concerned with all people who have not one of these two and are able to be vaccinated, but also with the possibility of supplying and registering the self-diagnostic tests available for specific professional groups, but then for all other citizens too. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I would like to make it clear that those who have a Greek identity number, a police identity card from the Greek state, or those who have VDUs because they work in the country, can enter the application of emvolio.gov.gr and issue from there the provisional AMKA number, which is only - I repeat - for the use to be vaccinated or to obtain the self-tests necessary for themselves and for their children. Those who do not have a tax record or a police ID card must, on the basis of the conditions laid down, and the details of the ministerial decision to be issued, go to the Civil Service Centres and issue the provisional AMKA number there, so that they too can be vaccinated, so that there is the greatest possible protection for the whole population. It is necessary for everyone to be vaccinated. And, of course, priority will also be given to them on the basis of the prioritization that applies to everyone else. We are giving this possibility today so that we can gradually, as we move on, have a full coverage of the whole population in the face of pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Now Mrs Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, Articles 121 to 129 are added to the SYRIZA Act of 2016 to simplify allegedly the framework for the establishment and operation of two welfare structures, the PPC and the PPC SEPAs that had not been included in the SYRIZA Act of 2016 as Mr Georgiadis falsely claimed at the first meeting of the committee. There's no more proof than they didn't exist in 2016 and you include them today. These are two structures open to the community that aspire two extremely vulnerable groups of our fellow citizens, which require great guarantees that speculation is no longer possible at the expense of the health and life of their beneficiaries. Have you ever visited a PPC or a PPC of LEADER, ladies and gentlemen, but above all you, Minister? CVMPs mainly relate to the fourth age, more than seventy years usually. They're over-aged and no supportive family environment. Every day they take care of them there, they are very concerned, they are given their medicine, and they are given special nutrition. So they don't get into the nursing homes and stay at home. Appropriate social importance is CSEANS OF MEASURES. These are structures hosting disabled children and adults during the day with mental damage. They are creatively and at the same time being trained, not at the age of the age, but at the NSAIDs, they are trained in order to be able to join society and work. Have you heard what will happen to you, Minister? They are Social Cooperative Enterprises of Solidarity of Limited Responsibility. What about them? 50% of people are from CIFs, children with mental deprivation, i.e. former drug addicts, decentralized - you are now dismantling CIFs - and former prisoners. 50%! Do you know who was cooking the school meals that you used to smash them all over Perma? These structures in 2016. Well, two things happen: whether the government is aware of the role and history of PHYSH and PHYBODIES, or is completely indifferent to the effects of the provisions of the present, it is enough to promote entrepreneurship at any price, which Euclid would say, regardless of the consequences. So let us inform the House and the Greek people about the history of these two social structures. Today, sixty CIFIs operate throughout Greece. They're part of the ESDP. They belong to municipalities or legal persons, public undertakings. While CVMPs, the vast majority of which are also part of the NRP, have been established and operate - take note - by non-profit-making public utility bodies mainly public-benefit unions made up of the parents of children with disabilities for whom I am speaking so long, mentally disabled, etc. They have been established since the beginning of 1992 as rehabilitation and recovery structures and since 1993 the process of granting them in two phases has been clearly defined. It is an extremely careful process and they are licensed by the respective Prefecture after inspection in two times of technical specifications and technical buildings and their duties. This is a very serious process of staffing and founding. In 2001, PPPs are allowed to be set up by municipal and public enterprises and by private legal entities of a non-profit nature. The same is confirmed by Law 4554/18, our law, which adapts the changes that have been made to local government. Again they still have the same context, it doesn't change anything. In 2016 again, we do not incorporate these two structures into the respective law that you are amending today, because it is precisely because we say that they are extremely sensitive structures, human lives. And, in any case, the pandemic revealed it, what else do you want? Thousands of cases in private homes. What exactly do you want to avoid doing this thing that you do today? Who has to tell you it's criminal? Aren't your victims reaching the nursing homes privately? And you come today faithful to your ideas with the pandemic in red to strengthen at any price the profitability of private capital, that is, to break the protection chain of decades in these two sensitive structures. What did the Minister say when he heard all this? Do not worry, we have incorporated them into those activities that are not automatically approved, such as hairdressing, for example, but we will wait for sixty days and if, in the sixty days, the public administration does not respond to what to do, we will establish them. Are we seriously opening windows to corruption? White cheques for their establishment and operation, is that what you're doing? At the same time you presented in this Chamber a few days ago your plan for the Recovery Fund. The sums in place for welfare are minimal, but they are not present. However, they appear to mobilise zero private investment resources. In other words, the Government considers that there is no interest in investors for such innovative structures due to the strict state control framework in their establishment and operation. So today you're releasing it to start these moves in KIFIs and KIFIs, create fields of uncontrolled profitability to develop the private sector even where the pandemic has proved to be a danger of death. We in the opposite of the New Democracy believe that the institutions of KEY and KEY LEVEL are important pillars of the social state in preventing disincentives, which provides benefits and services to all citizens in the phases of their lives that face inequalities to remove them and ensure their full social integration. We are voting against the articles in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in our election speech we placed particular emphasis on the economy and the conditions under which the country will enter a revival and development path. We have pointed out the need to attract investment, to create new better paid jobs and, at the same time, to combat bureaucracy by broadly digitising procedures. These objectives are now fully implemented by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our government programme, despite the pandemic, at an increasing rate. With reference to attracting investment, we are not just focusing on large foreign or Greek investment, we are also talking about small or medium-sized enterprises whose start-up requires a long-term bureaucratic process and a process that often works deterrently. In this context, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment extends the activities covered by the simplified licensing regime. This is a process that other Members have said so, and it began with No 4442/16, and it was a Memorandum of Understanding, and it continues today since it is both for the benefit of the economy and the citizens. Let us note, however, that as early as 2014, the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, had established a simplified licensing procedure. 12 activities are therefore added to this new simplified scheme, eight of which are subject to a simple notification procedure. The entity shall, after the collection of the supporting documents required and without requiring their submission, notify the competent authorities of the commencement of the economic activity. The supporting documents shall remain in the operation and shall be made available to the competent audit authority or any other competent authority. It is noted that the notification will be further simplified as soon as the Integrated Information System for Activity and Control is activated, and by that time it will be submitted electronically to the competent authority or JEPs by electronic means. Four activities, namely leisure activities, day care centres for the elderly, day care centres and day-to-day care centres, and renting sea recreational facilities, are subject to the authorisation regime. It is precisely because these are activities where health, safety, environmental protection are raised, that a simplified procedure is provided for, but an autopsy of space will be carried out and two-stage control will be carried out. I would like to make a special reference, Mr Ministers, to the activity of renting sea recreational means. Currently around a thousand two-two companies are active in the country. 10% of them have their seat and are active in my constituency, Corfu. It is foreseen that for the purpose of approving the activity on a hay and beach, as long as the concession agreement that can be reached for all five years, and in the event of activity in a marine space, i.e. on a platform, this will only apply for one year. I think it is clear that the definition, Minister, of one year for these cases is not enough. There is an equipment that costs enough money and, of course, the time that such a business works is not the usual tourist season, if you like, of four, five or six months. It's much shorter because there are weather phenomena. So I suggest that you see it a little, if it does not become a five-year contract, that there should be a transitional period at least three years. I think it is a fair request, which, at the hearing of the bodies, has been said by the President of their pan-Hellenic club. I shall also say a word about trademarks, because I think it is very right and essential to transfer responsibility from the Directorate-General for Trade to the Industrial Property Organisation. The transfer is for the reason that there is no rapid execution of this procedure and there are still thousands of cases pending. But to say that the Industrial Property Organisation is able to manage the additional competence as it is already dealing with relevant issues and has the necessary know-how and experience. I also consider it important to add the intended obligation to register with GEMI and the natural persons carrying out an economic activity. The GFCM is therefore evolving into a national register of economic activity from which the full picture of all aspects of the business and economic activity will emerge. So, having all the information, economic, development and trade policy can become more targeted and more appropriate. Therefore, GEME is upgraded and becomes a key tool for policy exercise. Finally, it is worth a reference to the platform "e-Consumer", which evolves into a key market monitoring tool, and here of course the obligation for large supermarket chains is introduced to update the platform every day for tailor-made products prices. This ensures the transparency of prices, which is an important element in the orderly functioning of the market. With all this, I believe that the draft law - and indeed deserve congratulations to the Minister and the Deputy Minister for this legislative initiative - contributes to attracting new investments and introduces self-evident practices that will put an end to the long-term delays that constitute a burden for the economy. Upgrading existing tools makes it possible to monitor the market better, promotes competitiveness, while protecting and facilitating the consumer. For all these reasons, of course, we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for the Environment has the floor to make a small contribution to the amendment he has tabled. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. I am referring to Amendment No 849/63 by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy that we have introduced, which contains six articles. Articles 3, 4 and 5 refer to something very important. In view of the exceptional circumstances created by the COVID pandemic -19 we are prolonging a number of critical deadlines for the implementation of renewable energy projects so that the parties concerned can implement their projects with the data originally planned. A specific extension of 10 months is therefore introduced for the duration of the installation permits and the final tenders for the connection of renewable energy and SITH power stations. It also extends by 10 months the period of association of the projects selected by the RAE tenders and the date of change of the reference prices in force. The time limit and the right to conclude contracts outside the tendering procedure for energy communities, which is transferred until 31 December 2021, to 30 June 2021 which originally expired in order to assimilate energy communities to private individuals and to apply to them the same deadline. Article 1 of the amendment that we are introducing extends until 31 December 2022 the closure of the accession procedure within the framework of authorised forest land interventions for the cases referred to in paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 of Article 52 of Law 4280/2014. It is also possible for those holding the legal provisional concessions and for many years cultivate the areas granted to them, thereby fulfilling the purpose of the concession, to obtain a final title. Article 2 shall be extended until 31 December 2022 the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 102 of Law No 485-2020 and the legalisation of the designated establishments referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 51 of Law No 998/79 shall be permitted. Furthermore, under the proposed legislation of Article 52(7) of Law 4280, the legality of livestock establishments, farms, apicultures, farms of game, aquaculture, fur farms or other relevant livestock units, temples and auxiliaries thereof, carried out on a forestry basis and operating without the adoption of the permits provided for in the provisions of the forestry legislation. The purpose of the proposed arrangement is to establish a legal status for these projects due to their specific role and to avoid, of course, the need to remove such installations. Let me mention that in Article 5 regarding the proposed regulation of the amendment, we are dealing with the question of equation, addressing the operational needs of buildings and training facilities owned by a Member State of the European Union with the respective buildings and facilities belonging to the Greek State and the Local Government A' and Grade B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Georgiadis, I would like you to convey my thanks to Mrs Peloni, not so much for the kind words she has said about me - she has written about me that I am a god, a little too much - but about what she has said about Mr Chrysochide, Mr Samaras, Mr Vorides and you. If I am not mistaken, Minister, it is in some way questioning your inadequacy in the field of logic. That's what I understand Mrs. Peloni's doing. I would like to say that I agree with Mrs Peloni, and in this way I would like to say that I am not a divisionist and where there is agreement with government officials I am always the first to accept it. I want to make you a second compliment, Mr. Georgiadis. Your government is obviously doing things and a process and a substance, and I see a huge impartiality in this. You are wrong to the same extent, to the same extent, to the issues of substance and procedure. I'm starting with the issues of procedure. Evidently this bill has a very large procedural part. There is a debate in the world that puts the balance between ex ante control and ex post control. There is. That's not astrophysicist. People can disagree. We do not disagree with the basic course, that there may be more retrospective. But in the same bill, you do things that make us suspicious, even though it's not the natural momentum of the crusades to be suspicious. For example, what you say in Articles 28 and 30 for high-risk activities and for business parks. Our rapporteur has analysed this. The rapporteur for KINAAL has also raised the issue. There we see that many discounts can be made and we have no guarantee or guarantee that the real restrictions they need will be protected. Our main problem, however, is the question of trust and credibility. Because we are seeing at the same time - and you did not answer Mr. Haritsis when you raised the subject of your amendment, you said you might say that we have a platform here for licences and controls and we see in this amendment that shows that there is a great discretion in the government who makes control, how it does control, which is something that concerns us. And that's everywhere. Because we have a government that seems to say that the rules are not for the government itself, they are for the others. We see this in direct assignments. We see this when you want a party official to serve a post and it does not qualify: 'No problem, we change the law and, therefore, it is qualified.' We saw it - and maybe this is the most serious bill you've brought, which shows how you understand the rules of the game - about Skouria. In fact, this is a contract that has been in excess of every previous one for the last thirty to forty years in Greece. It restores the impression that the rules are so that we can change them when it suits us. But now that we are talking about the procedures, to see the great ideological difference between the Left - I believe almost all the parts of the Left - and the New Democracy, I want to make a reference to the CECH and the changes that you want to make. I, in fact, haven't heard a lot of criticism about the C.E.L.D. I'll say if he did everything perfectly. In general, it was an organization where both workers and the healers and families of the healing people who had democratic structures through the board of directors elected by the general assembly. And he also had democracy underneath, which was in other bodies, such as the board of responsible, units, the policy board, i.e. organs that brought the "breath" of a living organization to the Board. I'll say it because I see an engineer in front of me. There was feedback mechanism. There was a feedback mechanism. I mean, they got information. They didn't make it all perfect. But, they had these mechanisms to find out where they're wrong, where they can get better. At the same time, you have paid the administration, you put technical advisers, who are not quite clear that they can respond to these people's problems and the importance they have for their lives. So, as in the development policy to which I will come, you do not care - and that is the procedural - at all, democracy, not the vigilance of civil society, where there is knowledge of various things. I am not going to say much on the substance. Many fear that what you are doing for the JETD is to change the purpose, which was the rehab, the reintegration of people into society, and now we are talking about reducing the damage. We now go to the main issues, which, as I said at the outset, you are wrong as to the subject of the procedure. I start with the level of the European Union. Over the last thirty, forty years in the European Union, what political scientists, economists, negative integration and not positive integration prevailed. What was negative integration? What does this expression mean? That there will be convergence of Member States' economies by removing obstacles. On the contrary, positive integration is, in order to avoid any divergence between the Member States, that we are building new institutions which can, in a democratic way, help both the development and convergence of economies and prosperity. This was the neoliberal project at the level of the European Union and at the level of the institutions. And we've got results from this negative completion. Because while they promised us that, with this negative integration, that is to say to remove obstacles to investors and investment, the European economy would be able to make its way, we did not have an increase in investment. On the contrary, we have had historically low investments as a percentage of GDP in all European countries. So it's something. And I do not actually see you as the Development Minister having an answer to that. We see that in Greece this government continues in the same way. What is negative completion in this case? That we're gonna get the restrictions out. So there is no need for planning, investors decide where to invest, how to invest, how to invest, and we will give them freedom of decision without - Mr Skeylakis says so, for example, Minister - limiting the environment. Check out the environmental bills you have voted on. Without the participation of local governments, local government. Again, you took this out in your environmental bill, there is no foodback there, the feedback mechanism, from which you could learn how to develop, where wisdom is, what priorities are. That's a long way from what SYRIZA does, who did the program conferences that he tried to find out. While you have brought us your proposal for the Recovery Fund without any discussion with society, with citizens, with Parliament and with institutions. Of course, the top moment of negative integration is what you propose for work. When the bill comes, I will try to explain to you what work economists have learned in the past twenty, thirty years in this direction of flexibility and where this has led, in the precariat, to bad jobs, low investment. But, really don't mock people that's developmental. The indiscriminate Mr. Hatzidakis said that this is what workers want, because he will give them more time. Would you, Mr Georgiadis, if you were not Minister and were working in an AMAZON warehouse or in a supermarket, would you have an individual contract with the boss and tell him that "you know, I have some olives and I prefer to work this month a little less and I will work more for the other months?" And the boss would tell you - through the individual contract, because obviously capital and work against you have the same power, the same weight - 'My good boy! Of course you should go to your village for the olives!” or "Bravo, your child now gives pan-Hellenics and you won't be able to work?" Is that what you're telling us? That this will help to develop by mitigating, removing all restrictions? The restrictions on investors to develop their industry and their business, not with low wages and bad conditions, but through technological upgrading. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need a minute more. I don't want more. When I was Minister I had made a reference to Vassilis Vassilikos and his work that forty-forty years has inspired not only me, but very many people in different values. In a novel there's a lady who goes to expensive shops and has a bag of other expensive shops and because the sellers see that she has this bag, they take care of it, they put one dress on her, the other dress. Only in this bag she has rags, because she's poor and she just likes to go to the expensive stores and put on dresses and try. To say that more technically, in semantics is the difference between the important, that is, the image, the bag that says "GUCCI" and the signifier, what is inside, what is the content. You do the same. You mean, going to the elections, is a bag that says "investment and entrepreneurship and new jobs", but the meaning, which is inside the bag, for you, is not that, it's jobs for our friends, it's low wages, it's direct commissions, it's not for investment, but for investors. But, as semantics says, the distance between meaning and meaning can last for some time, but it cannot last. You promised security, another bag, and we saw the results in both Nea Smyrna and elsewhere. You promised investments and we see what you mean about investments. You have promised safety for workers and workers, and now you are bringing these working relationships. I think people will understand. He understands that SYRIZA has a short-term view of how you are dealing with the crisis, the effects of the crisis, the debts from the crisis, as shown by the extraordinary event we had two days ago. He understands, however, that he also has a medium-term plan that is not based on the fact that our environment does not affect us, that exploitation is not based on cheap work, which listens to the voices of civil society about what priorities we need to invest, how we should invest, how we do not invest, that he has the monopoly of wisdom, and that government will build on this difference, what you say and what you are doing. That's all growing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u86	Dear Mr Tsakalote, I cannot hide that I am enjoying parliamentary dialogue with you and I will begin with something that I think is not yours. The related comments on Mrs Peloni's old tweet are worthy of Internet trolls and not of serious people. There is a fine scene to the Plutarch, when King Philip II, the father of Alexander the Great, began to dance over the dead Thebes of the Holy Lodge. Then King Diaratos, his ally, former King of Sparta, told him “What a pity, O King Philippe! Your fate had set the role of Agamemnon and you preferred the role of Thersite." Don't be a thermosite, Mr. Chakalote. You're a serious man. Leave those for Velopus. I'm closing my parentheses, and I'm going to go to the second topic. You know, Mr Tsakalote, you have made a fine reason to say that New Democracy is the party and the government that, if it says - a party official wants to be placed in a position and does not meet the criteria, it does not matter, we are changing the criteria now meets them. So we give - it says - the impression that laws can change in the interests of your own people. First of all, I will tell you, as Vice-President of the New Democracy - I am sure my colleagues in this House know this - that the biggest glimpse of the voters of the New Democracy is that we do not choose the New Democracy's members for the positions of responsibility, on the contrary we have committed ourselves to merit, as we understand. But I would like to tell you that the day you chose to make this as a comment was extremely unfortunate. I have to tell you, if you do not know, that yesterday the former Minister of Justice of SYRIZA, Mr Stavros Kontonis, publicly claimed to the prosecutor and awaits his statement by the prosecutor, that the government, in which you were Minister of Finance, postponed the time of the national elections by one week so that Mr. Tsipras could change the Criminal Code so that he can change the article of active bribery from a felony to a flood and Mr. Kontonis to benefit from a businessman in Greece, whose name he said he would name the prosecutor. I, because I am always in favour of the presumption of innocence, will say first of all that I do not believe Mr Kontonis and that I do not believe that any elected Greek government can have in mind the change of time, even of the national elections, in order to serve the interests of a businessman. I say - for those who do not know - that our government, when we took over, changed this article again and from a flood to a felony. Each one has the right to be judged on the basis of the most favourable legislation in force in his action and, therefore, if there is such an entrepreneur, he has already benefited from Mr Tsipras. The reason why and for what consideration we will see, since the prosecution investigation starts, that is, whether what Mr Kontonis says is valid. Let's just say they don't. At best for you, do you know what the answer is? That you were sitting at the same government table and at the same Ministerial Council, with a completely unreliable man, who can blame you all and your Chief for something so serious. That's the most innocent you can say. That's about what your last announcement said yesterday. If we start intercategories like this, you'll have nowhere to hide. Let it go to good! We're going to the finances you know better than the Marxist point of view. I remember in SYRIZA many Members of the then government are invited to the various television networks - there are related videos - where journalists or their colleagues, but opponents, of the New Democracy MPs: 'Tell us an investment that SYRIZA brought'. You will see sparse videos with hundreds, thousands of views where they were singing something of the "FRAPORT", with half the heart of Greek. Of course, journalists laughed, as you all know, these were the investments that SYRIZA had fought for the first time, they were of the Samara government, and which he was simply forced to implement as soon as he could and was able to do on his own government. There is no video, not one, which can then refer to a member of the then government as an investment in SYRIZA. So you do an entire analysis here, to say that the important thing is investment, while the important thing is that we have no investment. Get paper and pencil. First week at the Ministry of Development I met the company "PFIZER", the international company "PFIZER" that makes the vaccines. They had chosen between six countries where they would build the Digital Center of PFIZER outside the United States. They had chosen to build another in Cambridge already and six European countries, including Greece, had nominated where to bring their digital center. After my personal negotiations with the company, which lasted for about a month, they were also in touch here in the evaluation process they chose Thessaloniki. Their original prediction was to hire two hundred computer engineers, with extremely high wages, and I am passing along. The play started. Already, at the moment we're talking, it's the purchasing process of the building. They started the first two hundred recruits. And now we've been announced that they'll finally get five hundred and not two hundred. They are very pleased with the human material they found in Thessaloniki. A month later, PFIZER was followed by the company ‘CISCO’, which also established a centre in Thessaloniki. Then, so that we don't get them one, and there's a lot of them, I'll say a company you should have heard of, too, the Marxist. The company "MICROSOFT" between nine European countries and with significant contributions from Nikos Papathanases, following a competitive process of nine countries, has chosen Greece to invest a billion euros. It did not pass a month after the decision of MICROSOT and similar veteran American colossus, listed on the American stock exchange, which also deals with Data Center, obviously influenced by the decision of MICROSOT, the DIGITAL REALTY, sixty billion capitalisation in the US stock exchange, purchased the company ‘LAMDA HELLIX’ and decided and announced an investment of half a billion euro in Greece for founding, as well as the Data Center. Are these two-year-old investments enough, or do you want me to say more? I have a third of them, not analogous to MICROSOT, but not small. So the comparison between what we did with investments and in the middle of COVID and what you did with investments is at least sacrificial. At least, to be consistent with your Marxist ideology, leave investment for us capitalists! The truth is, even ELSTAT's figures if you had bothered to read, the much better performance of the Greek economy than expected in 2020 is due - and I am proud of it - and the much better of the anticipated private investment index. In the ‘ERNST & YOUNG’ indicator, the global investment index, Greece in 2020 has been in its best position for eleven years. Is that enough? Oh, no. If we hadn't had the COVID, we'd certainly have gone better. I am absolutely certain that you will have read the CITY GROUP reports and the reports of other international bodies, which we expect from September 2021 onwards, since the pandemic has finished, an investment boom in Greece. There is no way you have not read the articles in question. They've flooded the international press. Today we are talking about, the 'FINANCIAL TIMES' - I imagine you will know this newspaper - have a full-fledged tribute to the Greek recovery plan entitled 'The most comprehensive recovery plan in Europe' and is expected to attract a large number of private investments. So in our case, the example of the dear lady of Mr. Vassilikos' novel isn't. I found another sign that's different from the meaning. This is where they identify. It is the GUCCI bag - how you said it - and it is genuine. That's why we're doing good. I close parentheses and make a comment only on the bill of my colleague, Mr Hatzidakis. It is not the bill of this debate, but because you have raised it, I do not want to let it go like this. The details of the bill will be explained by the Minister responsible and the answers will be given by the Minister responsible. I am sure, however, that every common sense understands that in the world of modern technology of the 21st century, working conditions and labour legislation must be adapted in reality, with full respect for the full rights of workers - this is a red line real, not like Varoufakis - but in the modern world in which we live. I wholeheartedly support the great reform effort of the Minister for Labour, Mr Hatzidakis. I'm now entering the bill. Firstly, I table the legislative improvements to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment. Please share in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u87	Firstly, I am announcing what parliamentary amendments I will be accepting. Firstly, I will accept the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 844 and a specialist from the New Democracy MP Mr Simos Kedicoglou. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's accepted. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am going to accept it under the general number 851 and a special 64 by my fellow Member, Mr Chrysomalli, from Messinia, who is to extend the deadline for the activities of the fireworks in the Messinia Prefecture. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I will accept, Mr Katsotis - do not be surprised - the parliamentary amendment you have signed, Mr. Delis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece, with a general number of 840 and a special 56 on the transfer of disciplinary powers of the staff of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology to the Ministry of Development and Investment, because it had indeed remained this in the Ministry of Education, which was the former body of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I can accept an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, from the Communist Party of Greece, because we do not have a problem. That's our main difference. As you will see, during your five-year rule, every bill we thought was good for our country, we voted for it. And in this bill we are debating today, I have said many times that this reform falls on the previous law of 2016, the SYRIZA government. What SYRIZA does not say and I will tell you now, but the SYRIZA's 2016 law came after the defeat, during the summer of 2015, because the exact history in Greece of converting the possibility of setting up a business with simple notification, did not start, of course in 2016. It was launched for the first time in 2014 on a government of Samaras - Venizelos, by law at the time of Kostis Hadjidakis. This law has been effective for about a year, denounced by the SYRIZA government as opposition in 2014. It was one of the first laws to be abolished in the first half of 2015, at the time of the "superior" negotiation, which, after all, was retrospectively imposed on you by the troika, then - I repeat - the defeat of the summer of 2015 and the dismissal of Varoufakis, where then again you saw that the notion of disclosure and simplification of bureaucracy was not as bad a idea as you thought! So, yes, this one falls under the 2016 Act and the commitments to the institutions undertaken by the SYRIZA Memorandum at the time, but these were a continuation of an effort already launched by the New Democracy. In addition, with this reason, we had then voted in favour of the relevant law. I say this, in order to have the overall route, especially so that you do not think we are suffering from some sort of collective Alzheimer's about what has happened in Greece exactly. I now need another response to Mr Tsakalotos and to some other rapporteurs, because we add paragraph 10 to our amendment on the possibility of the Minister for Development and Investment to identify and specify issues relating to how to carry out compliance checks, etc., on development projects. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, and then I will say the legislative improvements that I have already accepted. Let us say that we have accepted legislative improvements that had been tabled by Mr Santorini at the first committee meeting in the article, where we have changed and put a transitional provision in respect of lifeguards and pleasure boats. And we have accepted another one - two legislative improvements proposed by the Opposition, precisely to clarify some. We have no problem or claim bays that we are doing everything perfectly, nor that no one else can have a good idea. It would be very good for our political system to be able to recognize what another is doing. In Mr Katrin's question, because I heard him ask, and I saw him now entering the Chamber, I would just say that Mr Katrinis gave a pedigree term. He told us and it was about you, dear Nico, that Law No.4615/2019- we were talking about Law 2019- a number of ministerial decisions had to be made... and today how many we should have already adopted. Indeed, we had a 30 - nine joint ministerial decisions. So far the nineteen have been issued. The rest of the 20 are coming out. I must tell you that our commitment to the institutions is that they will be completed by September. I have to tell you that this may seem to be some of them. Because, Mr. Katrin, we used to be a congression, you weren't exactly a Member, but you were at PASOK, that's what I mean, I want to remind you that in the law that I then voted as a Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u88	The ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u89	Yeah, yeah. As Minister of Health, seventy-three joint and simple ministerial decisions were foreseen. After three years, no one had been issued. I'm saying that so we know. So having issued the nineteen is not getting a grade perfectly, but we are not relocating. Let's move on. We are within the timeframe we have set up, the rest of us must have been issued in September. It would be a good thing for someone to do parliamentary control to see whether or not what I say today will be respected. But we're not neglected. We're on top. The publications, even of simple ministerial decisions, are not a simple process, because the law on investment in Greece is a technical bill, where before the Minister who will sign the state services concerned must have first contacted each other, but also with the interested parties who testify. I should also like to say that in this draft law we have the article on boat manufacturers and the possibility of issuing a Presidential Decree on the relevant specifications. It doesn't mean that because we voted for the law, we have to get a presidential decree, the presidential decree came out. It is negative after a few months to ask us what you were doing with this presidential decree you were saying to put. I, too, accept the press, I think it is very useful for parliament. I'm stressing it. So it's right that Catarine's labelling here. There, Mr Katrin, who, in my opinion, made a huge mistake, reasonable mistake, is how you tried to cancel our reform of the OBI. What did you say? I repeat it for those colleagues who have not been in the Chamber and have not heard it. Watch out. It makes sense for the Minister to not only be us, Egypt and North Korea, who have two, but to go with the others who have one, but if you want to do so, for example, take the Competition Committee and then... with the members of mobile telephony and the Greek peculiarity and the Competition Committee not to have control over telecommunications, but to be subject to the AIA to another independent authority. Firstly - and above all - when we do something right in one, because we have not done anything right, perhaps it does not cancel the attempt to do the right thing at one, I imagine. You understand that. The arguments must be reversed. All right, if you say so, I agree, but I invite you to do more. That would be a reasonable argument. But I do not believe that you do so because you do not do it to the others, I think it is completely absurd and it is even more absurd if you think that the Competition Committee belongs to the supervision of the Ministry of Development, but the ETF is not. So it would be absolutely impossible for me to say that I'm going to legislate. So you understand that the argument is becoming even weaker. I hope that in the final vote the Change Movement as a party that - I will always say it with the strong political conflict we have - has offered many positive things. He has also fought his own battles, and in particular in recent years he has suffered a great political cost. I cannot imagine that you will be voting against the relevant article. Why? Because neither one in the process of hearing bodies nor in the exhaustive debate we have had in the House has argued that there has been no problem with our address. Everyone recognizes that everyone on the market is afflicted by the Contractor's Directorate. So we recognize the problem, but we deny the solution. That really gets over me. I believe you will show, Mr Katrin, that there is parliamentary superiority and parliamentary responsibility. With regard to Article 10, in order not to forget it, because I have lost my thoughts a little while there, I am clear, Mr Tsakalotes, this is how the controls of development laws are carried out one of the parts that we can say that what is currently working is well done and people are not troubled? You, Chakalotos, as Minister of Finance, hadn't heard any complaints - obviously, were you not a minister, but with you in the same building, would you have taken your ears - for delays in development law? I can't believe it. The most common complaint in the Department of Development is that the workshop isn't coming, they won't check me out, they can't complete it. We did, in fact, take the opportunity to hire a private company and admittedly work. Already a number of investment projects have closed off their file using private audit companies and large investment projects and major companies and unsettled the system to a very large extent and I am pleased. You know, however, not everyone has the economic potential to get private investment companies. There are also people who are smaller in their investment projects and say, Minister, I cannot go and put the cost of private auditing in the investment bill. And I want to go on with the public and wait for the public and wait again for the public. So we come here and say something that doesn't work well, give the minister's right to be able to intervene when I see he's stuck and make a composition where they want to go? That's what the article says. Well, you say not that people can't be troubled and that only the rich can get the recommendation of private companies. I don't think it's right of you and I don't think it's brave. If it worked well, you'd be right to defend a piece that works well. Look, I don't have them with the Ministry's employees because it's not about the Ministry's employees, it's about the mixed scales, but about the very low fee you offer with the coincidence and draw from different geographical regions of the country with the COVID that you are not allowed to make travels with all this system has a real problem. So we cannot see a big problem and pretend that it does not exist. Now, as far as Mr Villardo is concerned, I do not want him to stay in the air something that is very serious. Mr. Villardos said that with the amusement parks, which are very dangerous entertainment activities in the sense that we have sadly mourned Greece as well as we in Greece victims of parks with young children, and they are even tragedies when a child loses his life in a park, which is why we did not only do what you accused us of, with a simple notification, of being able to establish a fun park, but the opposite. We kept the park in accordance with the authorisation procedure, namely first of all the control and after the licence has been issued, and we added the supporting documents and the presentation of a certificate with international certification, such as the ESS and the ESS, that is to say, an international certificate stating that these machines which are indeed the ones that state and comply with the safety rules that are internationally to be respected for such machinery. In fact, we have done the founding of a lion park a hundred times more stringent than was the case in the past, precisely because we share your argument. We cannot have done this and, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be accused of going backwards. If we had made a notification, you'd be right. But we didn't make it known. We made it backwards. I am not going to the bill from the beginning, anyway, in the bill, we agree and the climate of discussion has been extremely constructive, and thank you, I will only close with two issues. Two more words on the reform, and the signals will not tire you out, because we have said so exhaustingly in the committees. It is quite obvious that throughout the world, as we have said, there is an area of industrial property and trademarks, we could choose or abolish the OBI and its union with the trademarks or the transfer of the Ministry's trademarks to the OBI. Think with your mind which one of the two solutions is more reasonable. What was the main counter-project? Mr. Kriton Arsenis repeated this today. I, Mr. Kriton Arsenis, consider him a delightful orator, and when I am in the House I never lose his speech. He's always fun. But at some point we should stop saying things among ourselves that are obviously absurd. What do I mean by that? We can disagree if - let's say - we're having a discussion about what the Earth's core contains. We have asked a question: What does the Earth's core contain? One can say nickel magma. Maybe. Another may say it's not nickel, but it's iron. Possibly. One can say it's not iron, it's titanium. Maybe. But if one shows up and says it's an orange jam, does it get into the conversation? This is the argument that the money that goes to the OBI does not belong to the Greek state. We're clear now. OBI is a legal entity governed by private law. There's no private shareholder in it. The Board of Directors shall be appointed by the Minister of Development, its budget shall be approved by the Minister of Development and the Minister of Finance of the State, its monthly balance sheet and budget shall be approved by the Minister of Development and the Minister of Finance every month, i.e. the expenditure, which he spends, the targeting shall be approved by the Minister of Development and by the Minister of Finance, his officials shall be appointed by means of an ASEP, his payment shall be made by the Single Payments Authority and all of them belonging to the single wage. This is the Industrial Property Agency. Its money is deposited in a special account with the Bank of Greece, which is the use of the Greek state, where it wishes and thinks by decision of the Minister of Finance of the respective State. Now, seriously, the two and a half million who leave the Ministry of Development and are transferred to the OBI are lost by the Greek State, because they go to the OBI... To understand, the approval of the General Accounting Office of the State is that it is financially neutral, for that very reason, because one account of the state goes to the other account of the state. Guys, we can't argue with anyone. It's tiring. That's it. First of all, I welcome the challenge and the invitation of my fellow Member, Mr Simopoulos, to Kalochori. As Minister of Industry of Greece, I can assure you that our next major business, after we are moving on to the Oinofytas, will be Kalochori. I said in my previous speech that it is a Greek phenomenon, almost shameful, that the two largest industrial parks in the country do not exist as industrial parks. The two biggest are the Oinofytas and Kalochori. They are the largest industrial concentrations in the country and they are not industrial parks, nor have they been established as such nor have they ever been controlled by anyone. So, what's Article 31 doing? It unlocks the process to have a landscaping in the Oinofytas. I will tell my dear fellow Member from the Change Movement: what you have said is not serious. It was serious what you said. I want to be very honest with you on this. The concerns of the residents, the locals, the owners, all that you have said is correct. They had too long to agree with each other. They've had years. They didn't make it. How long have you, by the hand of the heart, been a serious colleague and a Member of Parliament, do you think that the Greek state still has to wait, in order to reach agreement on this 55%? How much longer do you want to wait for them? Would you say they'd find them in six months? Next year? Take care, however, whenever you say a time point, it means that we let this time point pass, with environmental pollution in your area, at the expense of the water supply, with uncontrolled industries that we do not know exactly what they are doing. Is that what you want? I want to tell you the truth. I said that to the committee. This provision came as a proposal from the Regional Director of Central Greece, Mr Spanos and all the partners. And I said to him, "We can't do it anymore. The State must intervene.’ From the day he came to this day, it's been six months. You know why I'm late? Because I announced that I would vote for this provision and wait for them to be found. There was no progress at all. I understand you want to represent them. I understand their concerns too. I neither want to see them face to face nor want to offend them. But I tell them that all of us here - and you and me and all of us - are in the public interest. We're not for one. We're all here. One's disagreement cannot stop protecting the environment in Oinofytas. And you cannot, seriously - I stress - want to tell me that we have to wait longer after all these years. Excuse me, we won't wait any longer. We'll vote for the article. We won't hurt any property. No one will be afraid of expropriations or anything else. That's not our target at all. The article is spatial in nature. I've seen where we're going to make the biological cleansing. It is about how we integrate renewable energy programmes. It's about how the green is going to be in the area. It is also how this area will become a model industrial park. In the end, they'll all be triumphant with what's going to happen, because they'll see it and get rid of it. Unfortunately, however, sometimes, we Greeks find it difficult to agree with each other. And I'm going to close up with a story you're going to like to understand why I believe in this article. Once, many years ago, a number of decades ago, I was chairman of the Committee on Profit Greeks. Then I had a trip to Australia. There, I met the Greek community of Sydney and asked me to intervene - if I could - because they had a very critical meeting, because the state of Sydney gave them ten years ago three hundred acres in the middle of the city. They were given three hundred and forty acres in the center of Sydney. Anyone who's been to Sydney will know it's one of the most beautiful cities in the world. They were given them to make the so-called "Greek Village". However, the Australians said: "We give you these three hundred acres to build the "Greek Village". When I went, I was summoned at a meeting of about seventy, eighty Greek clubs of Sydney, who were trying to reach an understanding of how to introduce the vehicle that would build the village. Why did they have this meeting? Because they had been sent paper by the state that said: "We can't wait any longer. We've been waiting for you for ten years. If you do not decide how to do the body...” ten years were fighting how they will make the body "... we will take them back to give them to others". I also presided over about six hours in a quarrel between all the Greeks, different parts of the country that existed there. I don't want to hurt anyone. All together. And I'm putting myself in. They didn't end up. After ten days, the government of their state took three hundred acres and gave them to the Thai and now, there is the Thai village. In other words, you can't wait for everyone forever. Once you have to decide, Mr. President. Uh, this Oinofyta time has come right now and we'll make up our minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute, to answer the Minister for the reports he has made to the Chief of our parliamentary group, most critically and falsely, as is customary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u92	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u93	Dear Minister, you said, for yourself, that the rights of workers are a red line, the only red line and that it is a normal red line, not like Baroufakis. He's wondering what you're talking about. Mr Varoufakis is famous for a characteristic of the world, and in contrast to all the ministers of the governments you served when what the government had set up, with which he was elected to the Greek people, was abducted, he submitted his resignation. You cannot have participated in a government in all your career that didn't do what you promised. I never saw you quit. So Mr. Varoufakis is proved to be holding his red lines. I would like to remind you - and I close with this, Madam President - that at the time when Mr Varoufakis kept red line with nails and teeth, not on his behalf, but on behalf of the Greek people he hears, the dear Minister has remained in history for his favorite slogan: 'Vasta, Gerun'. Gerun wasn't Greek, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are wearing the masks when you speak below, please speak close to the microphone, because you do not sound clear. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u95	I didn't want to hurt Mr. Varoufakis. I thought you knew that. If you do Google and write'red baroufakis', several thousand reports come out. It's like a neo-colitism in the Greek language. It was from that jacket that he wore with a red line in the tower in the negotiation, when the government said he finally decided to enter the negotiation for the new memorandum. We are talking about February 2015 and not July 2015. The phrase comes from the fact that Mr Varoufakis and the then ruling SYRIZA said they would not enter any negotiation as the memorandum was abolished by a law and an article. That day, he came in with that red line on the tower, the collar he had and he got up. It came out with the new memorandum per hand and passed the red line as a neology. As far as Vasta, Gerun is concerned, I've never told it in my life. I close with the following: The title of the amendment with a general number of 851 and a special number 64 is ‘Expansion of other business’. Madam President, I say this to be right for the Minutes, no misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, too. Mr Petsas, Deputy Minister for the Interior, has the floor to put him on the amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to support Article 2 of Amendment No 843/59. It is an amendment that strengthens our arsenal in the battle against the coronary pandemic and increases epidemiological surveillance, as rapid molecular tests, rapid test, from Grade I OTAs, are envisaged. In particular, in Article 1(1), the Grade I ATTs are to be understood as bodies carrying out rapid molecular tests, rapid test, and are subject, through their appropriate medical staff, to the obligation to register electronically in the National Register of Patients COVID -19. Paragraph 2 provides that, for the purpose of carrying out those rapid tests, grades 1 may recruit appropriate medical or nursing personnel up to 31-5-2021, in accordance with Article 74 of Law 4745/2020, whose validity is extended to that date specifically for that staff. Staff recruited may not be larger than the equivalent ‘a staff member for every twenty-five thousand total permanent population of the last OTA census’. The contracts in question may not extend beyond 30-6-2021, i.e. the end of June. Paragraph 3 of Article 2 provides that for the supply of rapid molecular checks, where the EVO does not have the necessary rapid test number to one grade, paragraph 3 of Article 10 of the legislative act of 11-32020 validated by Article 2 of Law No 4682/2020 shall be maintained until the end of June. This provision provides for the conclusion of contracts in the negotiation procedure without prior publication due to urgency. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Kefaloyannis, Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, has the floor to place him on the amendment. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor in order to present to the House the amendment we tabled under the general number 847 and specific number 67. This amendment introduces four individual provisions. The first two - and in particular Articles 1 and 2 - concern compensation for air services to which public service obligations have been imposed. To say this in other words, we are talking about barren lines. These provisions provide for additional financial support for airlines serving these routes, which were affected by the restrictions imposed by the pandemic measures. This aid concerns a change in the compensation per offerable position and is necessary in the light of the fact that the original prices were agreed and related to 2016 data and which, due to COVID limitations, are currently far too far apart from reality. At the same time, we move on to this solution to ensure the smooth operation of the routes to both the remote areas of mainland Greece and the islands of the country. In common, we will continue to have flights where the remote areas of our country are clearly for reasons of national interest. Thus, the forecasts relate to the months of November and December 2020 in terms equivalent to the first lockdown and the months from January to September 2021, that is, for the period in which we are prolonging the contracts on the barren lines. On this occasion I would like to inform the House that the new competition for barren lines, which will take effect on 1 October, is already ready and will be sent to the European Commission for approval and publication in the next few days. As regards Article 3, we amend paragraph 5 of Article 8 of Law 4408/2016. This concerns the financing of the OSE. The amendment we are introducing aims at ensuring the uninterrupted functioning of the Agency from the confiscation of its bank accounts to the hands of public or third parties or the clearing of debts to the public or insurance funds or other social security institutions up to 70%. At the same time, we add a paragraph providing for the possibility of subsidising the OSE from the regular budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and this until the signing of the contract between the Greek State and the OSE. Finally, Madam President, as you know, with Article 4, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, especially those who are well aware of the work of the transport of Athens and Thessaloniki, there are some categories of our fellow citizens who are entitled to favourable arrangements, either for their free movement or for the transport of a reduced tariff. In cooperation with the Ministry of Trade Shipping and Island Policy, we extend this right to two categories. First, to students of the Commercial Navy Academy with a reduced travel ticket and, second, to unemployed seafarers registered in the Maritime Labour Office register for free movement. I should like to point out here that these costs are not borne by the State budget, but by the Maritime Education Fund and the Maritime Labour Office respectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister for Development has the floor for a very short time, who probably wants to add something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u101	I wanted to speak for two reasons, Madam President. Firstly, because I forgot before, I would like to say that all ministerial amendments are accepted. It needs the Minutes to start the process. I would particularly like to support - because this is interesting - that in the Ministerial Amendment number 843 and a special number 59 of the Ministry of Digital Governance there is Article 3 on which we have not spoken, but I must mention it at the National Representation. I read it to you, Madam President. ‘Since there is still a direct risk of public health from the dispersion of the COVID-19 coronary, the lack of which is confirmed by a decision of the Minister of Health and yet not beyond 30 June 2021, sampling by means of a nano-pharmaceutical swab, as well as other tests for the detection of the COVID-19 coronary, which are carried out under the responsibility and supervision of the special scales and external units of the National Public Health Organisation, may be carried out with the active participation of students in university medical schools in the country who have completed their third year of study, while at the same time having been successfully examined in at least twenty-four compulsory lessons. The medical students concerned shall be included in the EGE's mobile health units sampling programme and supervised by the relevant project managers.’ I imagine that you are all aware of the urgency of this amendment, in order to broaden the possibility of daily so-called 'rapid test' by the EGE in the context of dealing with the pandemic. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Economou, to develop his amendment as well and to start with our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is Amendment No 848/62. It is an amendment which is made up of three provisions and relates to the control sector, a very important area. What are we doing? The first two provisions define the principles, on the one hand the principles of organisation, supervision and coordination and, on the other, the principles of implementation, supervision and management. By this definition we are trying to deal with the issue of overlapping, the question of co-responsibility, a matter which, on the one hand, slows down controls and, on the other, accumulates administrative burdens, bureaucracy and the audit authorities, that is to say, services and companies. The worst of all is that it often creates a distorting basis on which the results of the checks may not be the ones we want. So we are dealing with overlapping and responsibilities, and at the same time we ensure interoperability, because many of the control fields already operate as transport containers. The third provision establishes a single system of complaints concerning the range of competences of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. We are setting the general framework for the immediate, rational and effective management of complaints made concerning the matters of the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It is planned to set up a committee to monitor, assess, examine complaints, consisting of the Heads of Directorates-General and the participation of officials and servants from the services involved in the complaint. In this way, and it is speeding up but also adding transparency to the process of assessing and handling complaints, so that everyone knows the course of his complaint and can also receive the reply in good time. These are three provisions which are another one within the institutional interventions that we have done on the top issue of controls to protect the identity, quality of our products, obviously the health of consumers, public health and, of course, of agricultural income, and I call on you to vote in favour of them. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Minister. We are going back to the list of speakers. Mr. Gocas has the floor from the Change Movement. After Mr. Gokas is Mr. Vassiliadis, Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Heitas, Mr. Mamoulakis, Mr. Heimaras, Mr. Boutsikakis, Mr. Grigoriadis and Mrs. Pulou from the first circle of speakers. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in general the draft law on the simplification of the framework for economic activities in various areas is in the right direction, since the reduction of bureaucracy is a crucial precondition for improving the functioning of the public administration, which is called on to overcome existing problems and weaknesses which make development and investment difficult, while the country is called upon to speed up the process of productive and development reconstruction. Therefore, everything that speeds up and simplifies procedures and provided that essential conditions and conditions for operating activities are not circumvented is in principle positive. However, that is not all. The pluralism remains. There is no unified legislation in any case, and there is also a serious problem that the delegated ministerial decisions or joint ministerial decisions, presidential decrees or circulars should be passed on in practice to those who are voted on. These must be dealt with. In fact, I would like to mention that for L.4439/2016 and for the provisions on wet-fuel stations, it took two and a half years to adopt ministerial decisions, to adopt a circular application, and even to date there are issues that have not been clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, many provisions refer to the authorisation procedure, the authorisations and notifications of establishment and operation of various activities. There are partial objections, as raised, and most of the difficulties still arise in bringing together all the supporting documents and approvals required or certificates which are an extremely time-consuming procedure, so that there is a complete dossier, for example, for the start-up of operations, which remains in the undertaking for each audit. For example, environmental authorisations reach several months to two or more years, that is to say, only the time of the last administrative act, the issue of the authorisation. So the attempt to reduce bureaucracy still has a long way to go and there are no grounds for enthusiasm. The Government has not, however, responded to this need by a comprehensive coordination of all the ministries concerned in order to give a decisive support to the economic and development sector. What we are discussing here is the reform of Law 3982/2011 with a PASOK Government to simplify and simplify the new licensing procedure whereby the control of the completeness and observance of the legality of each activity follows the start of its operation. These efforts obviously go beyond the limits of a government term of office, require constant and conscientious agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, has covered all the points of the bill today, but also the meetings of the committees. For my part, I am going to focus on a number of specific issues. First of all, in relation to the activities referred to in Articles 7 to 13, it appears that the representatives of undertakings prefer to control the services so that there is no room for manoeuvre or for their own protection in view of any control, data and strict penalties, such as in the case of dealers for the repair of cars or liquid fuel stations relating to washing machines, lubricants and various car parks, such as cars, buses or heavy vehicles. They shall address safety issues and the outcome of the services provided, as there are cases of deficiencies or problems which cannot be identified in accordance with the notification procedure. There were concerns about any uncontrolled entry into activities with the creation of unfair competition, i.e. the deliberate exploitation of this legislative framework. This raises the question of subscribing the services and the need to strengthen them so that the checks planned are not delayed. Secondly, the intended impending change procedure notified should have a timeframe for implementation and also include notification of the completion of the change. Thirdly, documents kept in the documentation file and in particular private documents should be considered as signatures and dates. There could also be a digital folder with all this on a public website. Fourthly, on the subject of controls it would be appropriate to provide for a specific framework of action for each activity, to avoid payroll between auditors and audited persons, and to clarify whether the audits referred to in the relevant Articles concern only the present chapters. Fifthly, there is the question of the licensing of laundry and lubricants, which is simplified for self-sufficient, but there is nothing for those built up in liquid-fuel stations, while legal references to Articles 181, 183 and 186, to housed instead of outdoor or housed washing machines or instead of bus stations in Article 191, should be corrected. The second part applies to the general remarks mentioned above, but in particular to Articles 26 to 32, I would like to mention the following: In order to provide for the suspension by the licensing authority on the website 'DENMARK' and notifications of establishment and operation, the question is whether this will be done after a check on the service where various issues may arise, or the suspension will be made immediately and the check will be pending. The implementation may give rise to serious problems relating to the legality of administrative acts and corresponding responsibilities. Secondly, with regard to the provision of Article 28 on the storage of dangerous substances other than explosives up to 10% of the volume of storage and distribution facilities for dangerous substances as a limit for their authorisation to go to the category of storage and distribution centres, this has one logic, but there should be a maximum limit of this volume, because these are cases where they are generally risky. Thirdly, for the transfer of a building factor to a business park to a coverage rate of up to 80% there were reasonable objections from the operators. More appropriate is the creation of new business parks, for which little has been done in recent years and no serious investment. Many areas, regional units such as my special homeland, Arta, have no organised receptors, no parks. The forecasts in the recovery fund plan of EUR 100 million for industrial and rural parks do not meet the needs for these infrastructures that are important for growth, employment and the environment. For the Oinofita business park, our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, but also Mr Mulkiotis, have raised the matter in detail. The problem needs to be solved with the current state of the informal operation of an industrial area, but with integrated dialogue and consultation, and no key parameters of existing legislation are ignored. I should like to close by the amendments, which have once again come to a last minute and which are incomprehensible with the draft law. I would like to refer in particular to the amendment by the Ministry of Transport. Before he was the Minister here, he referred to the planned allowances and grants due to the conditions of the public transport operation or the OSE to maintain the railway infrastructure. I would like to point out that we, along with all of this, always insist on commitments that must be made by the respective private or other bodies to maintain jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by congratulating you on the fact that, beyond our positive vote principle, there are issues and proposals on our part which need to be taken into account in order to improve the draft law by means of provisions which will solve problems and enable bureaucracy to be reduced in practice and to facilitate the conduct of economic activities. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor has been asked by the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, to ask the Minister for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to ask the Minister about the legislative improvements. Minister, on page 2 of Article 57 you are making a change, which I think alters all philosophy, if there was your philosophy, for the platform "e-consumer". I will not dwell on the fact that the time limit of 8.00 p.m. is 10.00 p.m. in the morning, but on the fact that you add the provision that was not in the bill, and it is no coincidence that the BSE agency asked for it to be heard, which says, after sending the information, the seamless prices to the chain shops can be changed. So, what do you say in supermarkets? "You will send me by 10.00" the prices to put them on a platform, but then if you want to change them." So why would there be a platform to inform the citizen? This platform is supposed to work to ensure that there is a clear price and that the shameful gain is controlled and that these games cannot be made at the expense of the consumer, which is why it is also called "e-consumer" this platform. So what are you doing here? You are canceling every procedure for the control of supermarkets at the request of BSE - I heard it with my own ears at the hearing - at the expense of consumers, at the pandemic, which is affected by the loss of income and by the price of products. I'm very grateful to you for picking up this. I accept that 8:00's at 10:00, that makes sense, but with the second one you're doing, you're leaving the consumers north on the appetites of the big supermarket chains. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u109	For the same reason, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u110	Yes, Madam President. Minister, while you told us in the bill that the information was on the same day, it was later completed by 8 a.m. on the same day, when the shop was opened, and it was about the prices that supermarkets would have on this day's markets in their products and services, and with the legislative improvement you were completely changing what you had in the draft law. You say that it is possible to change during the day. What's the point of the briefing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u111	Minister, will you answer that later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u112	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u113	Now Mr Vassiliou (Lakis) has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the gleeing of pandemic from our country has affected the whole of economic life and has affected small and medium-sized enterprises, that is, the heart of the Greek economy. The timing of this unprecedented phenomenon coincided, unfortunately, with the attempt to relaunch the country's productive base, following a prolonged economic crisis, an effort that the Greek people trusted in the New Democracy and the current government, not by accident, as the New Democracy's programme of governance was deeply reformative, developmental and with emphasis on the liberalisation of entrepreneurship. It is precisely because of the pandemic and the great damage it is causing that we must immediately promote the reform agenda of our election commitments and government announcements. The Ministry of Development and Investment has so far taken the lead in the reformist legislation. Today we are discussing a draft law which is another commitment of ours. Improving the entrepreneurial environment, by radical simplification and the introduction of explicit deadlines in the licensing procedures, has been at the core of the New Democracy proposal. It is the result of a complex technical effort, among the co-responsible ministries, to facilitate new businesses without depriving them of power from the state. The new role taken by the state is both effective and regulative, without inhibiting or delaying a professional idea from becoming a reality. After all, it is now clear to the vast majority of citizens, but also to the House, that simplification of procedures will also favour attracting investment. And I say "later" because the government's legislative initiative is coming to develop an already existing legal framework, which started from 2014 and the then government of New Democracy and was complemented by Law 4442/2016, which was passed by the SYRIZA coup d'état and has been based on the expertise and recommendations of the World Bank. We therefore agree, ladies and gentlemen, at least on the general value and benefits of simplification of procedures in entrepreneurship and state relations. So the aim of the draft law under discussion is to improve the business environment, making it more friendly, by removing bureaucratic obstacles. The regulatory framework that allows the commencement of an activity by simple notice is initially activated, supplementing Law 4442, including a simple notification scheme of a number of economic activities, but also simplifying procedures for a number of others, for which authorisation is required for reasons of public interest, for which approval by the competent authority before the start of their operation is required. In particular, the simple notification scheme includes activities such as vocational training schools for transporters and drivers of vehicles, transport of dangerous goods, workshops, car parks, washing machines, long-distance bus stations and others. For the above activities, the person concerned shall be sufficient to gather the supporting documents which he does not provide with the notification, but shall keep them together with the evidence of submission to the area of activity and make them available to any audit. In addition, the simple notification provides for a system of approval for critical or dangerous activities, such as recreational activities and renting of sea recreational and daily care centres for elderly and disabled persons, which requires strict checks before the start of the operation. The approval procedure shall be carried out through the integrated information system for carrying out activities and checking. Going to the second part of the draft law, we see a series of more specific regulations of a reformist and developmental nature. I am going to make an outline of some, such as the obligation to register natural persons in the general trade register, GFCM, which is in fact upgraded to a general economic register of the country, to the standards of most European states, or to adapt to the consumer habits imposed by the pandemic by the release of automatic machines for the reception and delivery of postal courier items in public outdoors and indoors, such as OTA. Innovation is also a day-to-day online platform to uphold the prices of supermarket products, which enhances healthy commercial competition, transparency and timely information. In Articles 33-48 we have the transfer of trademarks from the Secretariat-General to the Industrial Property Organisation, and here is the successful international gathering of all issues relating to industrial property rights for greater flexibility and efficiency. Finally, Article 59 introduces a more efficient assessment and monitoring of projects subject to development laws with a direct impact on the aid of many small and medium-sized enterprises. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to reiterate that it is now clear to all the sides of this House that our economy needs healthy businesses that employ workers. We've seen the problems the pandemic has brought. We are well aware that if business does not work, workers pay it and not some dark big capital. Our economy needs entrepreneurship and by voting on this draft law it becomes more friendly and more attractive to new investments. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Arvanitides, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the government with this bill wants us to show its good intentions and to make life easier for businesses and commercial activities in the country. It is true that several of the individual arrangements are in the right direction. That is why our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, also voted yes in the first place. Any measure simplifying the functioning of the day-to-day economy, but under rules and supervision, it is certainly welcome. Any measure simplifying procedures in the day-to-day lives of businesses and the world of the market is positive. But the main measure that would help these people at this juncture of the health crisis, Minister, is to stop repatriation as government and open it up - shut down activities. Stop predictions and interviews about what, when it opens, because you keep making self-determination announcements. I remind you of what happened ten days ago in Achaia, Thessaloniki, Kozani. We were opening, we were closing in the morning. That's not serious, that's not serious policy. And you realise that this has brought about justified disruption and indignation to traders and businesses in these regions. And that's because, in believing the government's communications, you know, they've prepared, taken their stock, entered costs, cleanliness, disinfections. And unfortunately, the government without the approval of the Scientific Committee has announced measures with the sole criterion of communication. And, unfortunately, these government revolts are confusing and increasing insecurity and frustration in society and the market. No one will ever believe in compliance with the measures. No one can make a reliable financial planning for his business. I fear that this is the way to undermine the enormous effort to curb health and also the associated social and economic crisis. Minister, if you want to simplify and facilitate commercial life at this time, stop the unparalleled announcements. Stop giving dates that only do bad, all these things back, both in the national effort to deal with the third wave and in the economy. The reopening of the retail trade and other sectors of the economy requires rational planning, smart implementation of measures, real support for the ESA and, of course, the proliferation of tests. So from the seriousness and respect for the business world, as the latest survey of the Institute of Small Enterprises in GSE, 70% of the businesses declare a drop in turnover, one in three delays in the instalments of loans, doubled the companies that closed with losses in 2020, one in four has a due amount of tax debt, one in four cannot respond to suppliers. On the other hand, private debt to taxes and insurance funds are 148 billion. The outstanding debts increased by 14 billion in 2020, and the government simply insists on the insufficient regulation of twenty-four to forty-eight instalments. The latest survey of the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship also records doubling the number of businesses that are threatened and four out of ten are threatened by losing revenue and debt. The Minister for Development feels it is very important that the fall in turnover is not so great on the basis of ELSTAT's data. He escapes, of course, that ELSTAT is based on samples of businesses with more than 140,000 euros annually. They are therefore not indicative of the small and very small enterprises that are the backbone of economic activity and concern the many. In addition, apart from the legalisation and the nice titles of simplification, facilitation, acceleration - it is rich in the Greek vocabulary - the results of each legislature and its implementation must be checked at some point. So we must see or ask ourselves why, despite all the laws that have been passed to facilitate the establishment or operation of businesses, we need to legislate again and again. And, unfortunately, the way in which you are chosen to legislate is both uncompromising and uncompromising. In a bill of sixty articles, there are six amendments or I do not know how many have finally arrived. And two of these are your Ministry's, which you probably didn't get as normal articles. In any case, however, Minister, it is now enough at last to invoke the specific circumstances of the pandemic, because all you do is invoke the pandemic to cover your own shortcomings. All of this has a limit. Of course, the Recovery Fund may be a huge opportunity for the country, but the legislative choices and methods you are following invoking the rapid growth you want to come to the market are not for praise. We're not going forward like this. We're probably not going anywhere. We in the Change Movement say we welcome the initiatives that simplify procedures and the possibility of entering an economic activity. We cannot, however, ignore and not support this dull way of legislating you. In relation to the specific arrangements of the bill, let me focus on one or two issues. I'll say about Article 32. You know, Minister, you come from the industry and I am a man who happened as mayor to handle both the Thessaloniki industrial area and the Kalochori crafts park. In this area I was the mayor of three years. Do you know what these areas are? If you want to facilitate, for example, entrepreneurship in Thessaloniki, make a mileage of PATHE with the provincial Esis. It's 15 years on paper. An expropriation is needed to implement a kilometre and change all the way that this area has left. It concerns over a thousand two hundred businesses. As regards the Kalochori Industrial Park, no investment has been made in the past thirty years by the state. The mayor of the area is struggling to keep the streets open. And the companies chose to go there. Because BIP could not enter commercial enterprises, only workshops and transit trades. They were going to Kalochori because they couldn't go to the industrial area, which was only defined as a holder of heavy industry or a mob industry. This way of dealing has brought overconcentration. Fortunately, we are not facing problems of drainage of vegetarian and impurities because we have made them at the expense of the people. I begged the Ministries constantly for support. Now we have discovered, of course, that this area must become a crafts park. So that's it! Do you know how long the urban study has been at the Ministry of Education? In 2009, when I resigned and was elected MP, I delivered the city's general urban plan with its own resources and is still in ministries and has not been dismantled. So get rid of it and move on. In fact, the people, the businessmen who are there have a huge need. And now let's come to the other area, that of the oenophils that you're saying you're going to solve. Minister, five and a half thousand acres of business are working there. And they need infrastructure. They don't move. You add another five and a half thousand acres of unsuspecting farmers who have no idea what is going to happen there. It is therefore recommended that this notorious institution be set up as provided for by Law 3982. Who's involved? ELVALHALCOR of a particular group, ETVA that has no ownership, I don't know what it wants to do or what expertise it has, GOLDEN CARGO, no property in the area. And all these people are going to develop the area. And the question arises to every reasonable person is: why does the region not do so? Is he afraid of political cost? According to the law, she has the right to go ahead with building up the building. Let's see now what private town planning means. This company is now canceling the right to everyone else, 55%, to have a say - let's do it 50.5% - and you tell this company, which I tell you who is involved, build 11 000 acres. What's this company gonna do? It will impose a contribution to money and land arbitrarily, it will, by general rules, not the rules that the region would do, and it will put in place where it wants infrastructure - in fact people will lose their property - and make the projects with the money to which it determines. How will he pay for this before the man sells the farmer who hypothetically takes some piece when he applies, can you tell me? If you tell me, I would be very happy to participate in the project as a private person. Who's gonna pay for the infrastructure? The incumbents. That is why other businesses that have no uncovered areas - some people probably do - do not want to participate because they will pay all the infrastructure projects in the whole region. That's why other businessmen don't come in. And after this is done, who's gonna handle it? Another company will manage the park. So let's be serious. That is fair. No one says that the region should not evolve, but, apologies, what I described is called the'real estate'. As a real estate, in your own way, do you want the PTH to become with the argument "but nothing will happen in Thessaloniki"? And the program, then, is to become a hotel where ID is, to become a big mall, huge. This is what Thessaloniki needs to be a sustainable city! And that is what we call 'development'! Giving you such growth! It is the development of houses that we were building in the last period and led us to the deficits and problems presented by our economy. We have proposed to you that a special interministerial service be set up for large and important business parks. It's not too much. With fast track process and interministerial, solve all problems to create infrastructures. No one's going to ETVA's small craft parks that aren't working and are empty. Why don't business go there? Because they choose the infrastructure, where they can attempt to transport their goods. Make fast track procedures - two, three cases Greece has - and take responsibility and find resources. The Recovery Fund has such resources. You have, however, chosen to take it elsewhere so that you do not have a responsibility. And this is where the Minister said 'but do they not want to be?' and threatened - listen - the local expressions, the district and the municipality, that "I announced the article to run and if you don't run it in private". Okay, so simple is the process! You know what they're saying 'The policeman is an instrument, the bouzouki is an instrument, so the policeman is a buzook!' Wonderful! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will take all my time. With regard to the transfer of trademarks from the General Secretariat of Trade and the OBI, you are amending the provisions that you have recently voted on in Law 4679/2020 on trademarks, confirming once again the'switched', 'I change what I have changed'. With this bill you are transferring the entire process of patenting trademarks along with patents to the Industrial Property Organisation. I would like to make a few comments on the shipyards, the sector in which we should be a global model and have huge revenues by exploiting our naval reputation and experience. The main political question is whether the government has a real plan to strengthen the shipbuilding industry. I ask this question not only at the level of shipyards and business, but also at the level of research, innovation and education. There should be a strategy aimed at Greece becoming a global maritime and shipbuilding reference centre, innovative technologies on 21st century ships. Do the Prime Minister's announcements still ring in my ears at the Thessaloniki International Fair, which was talking about a strategic investor in Scaramaga Shipyards, and I wonder what happened after all? We have the tender for the clearer shipyards declared barren, after only one offer has been lodged well below the expected price. Of course I remember the Secretary of State for Development - he is missing at the moment - who almost begged the American side to table a proposal on shipyards, speaking of catastrophic scenarios in case they were withdrawn and then that there would be no choice but to grant the Chinese. I understand the geopolitical 'bra de fer' between China and the United States which is trying to exploit the Minister, but I would prefer a more careful and responsible approach than he is. I also understand that the future of both the Scaramaga Shipyards and the Elefsina Shipyards depends on the 5 billion-dollar programme for the supply of the four wells and the upgrading of the other four. It would be a good idea if there were a horizon for a blue strategy, as I described earlier, which will see farther. That is what our country needs and not just in the next five, ten years, the next five or ten wells and ships. I conclude by saying that, along with the regulations that we are going to have today and the wish to apply them in the field of everyday life. The facilitation of businesses and the commercial world, to begin with more measurable and careful statements by the Government's ministers on the development of the pandemic. I will say - I am missing the Minister, who is particularly sympathetic to me - that this example must first be followed by him. It will do him good and it will do it in the market and in the business climate. Madam President, I am ready to use the remaining five minutes to talk about the amendments, and I will not speak again. I would first like to refer to Amendment No 849/63 tabled by the Ministry for the Environment and Energy by Mr Mitsotakis, who sees things as'serious'. I would remind you that a number of the issues that come to light in the turf over the deadlines for the implementation of the RES projects have been discussed with the previous Minister, I said them quite clearly and denying all such prolongations and accusing us that we do not allow him to go ahead with his reform work. It was clear last year that in the circumstances and prevailing conditions it would be unfair not to grant these extensions. It was obvious that they did not have time to complete and connect RES projects in the network which were in progress. It was quite incomprehensible that the then leadership of the Ministry, which was deaf in these calls of the market, and also ours, was incomprehensible. Even now these extensions have been given and they are positive. I'm just describing it to show the way the government understands the government. We asked for support for small photovoltaics and energy communities. It goes back to 2022 as far as the obligation for energy communities to enter the competitive process is concerned. We expect, however, and need it, that the country and other steps be taken in the direction not of the uncritical protection of the energy communities, but of the targeted support for this instrument of energy democracy. Finally, for Amendment 848 and the arrangements of the Ministry of Development, I should like to say that, although the system is still complex, we agree with the provisions that are coming to resolve certain questions of co-responsibility, as well as the regulation on the management of complaints. Minister, despite the facilitation measures in all these economic activities you bring, there are still considerable questions about how the market will go in the next few days and months, how tourism will move with the reception of foreign visitors without an open focus, how will businesses stand under the brick of the new bankruptcy code, how will the necessary confidence be in the small shareholders of Piraeus Bank, when the choices you make give us, the possibility for speculative funds against a lentil to take control of the bank and manage an active 60 billion dollars. Evidently, for the Government, the commitments in speculative funds are preceded by the argument that private investment is attracted. The Change Movement has stressed that this is a scandal against the Greek people. I think it is time to abolish the CFSF, as well as to abolish the law on the administrative boards of banks to protect the interests of the Greek people. I would like to close with a reference to Mr Teddy's visit to Turkey and his meeting with Mr Erdogan. We have repeatedly stressed that we are in favour of open channels and the continuation of exploratory contacts at the level of Foreign Ministers, but with a specific agenda and a specific horizon: the peaceful resolution of the continental shelve and EEZ demarcation. Turkey, however, wants to change the context of these debates and the Greek side, unfortunately, is awkward and contradictory. Turkey wants to get rid of the suffocating framework of the exploratory talks - not negotiations - that started a few months ago. It puts obstacles to this process, wants to open wider negotiation for everything and continues the provocative statements, maintaining tension with our country from Cyprus to Crete. It wants to show that it is only having dialogue with Greece, by neglecting the European Union. We have seen how the President of Turkey has the heads of the European Union. That's how she feels stronger and doesn't want third parties on her feet. 'We do not need the European Union or other countries to discuss with Greece'. That is what the Turkish Foreign Minister said today and we expect to hear the other statements that will follow in the day. So we need a great deal of attention and not a spasm response, particularly in view of the informal pentamer for Cyprus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u119	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u120	I would like to answer the questions raised by Mr Kathrinas and Mr Katsotis, who I saw he left. From the first time we met at the Ministry of Development, we saw that the Observatory system was an outdated system and we felt it appropriate to create a democratic system, in the sense that we could immediately have an important information to monitor price fluctuation through graphs. So what we are talking about, the 'e-Catanator', is not Skroutz, is a price observatory. In fact, this price observatory has been opened to both the consumer and our fellow citizens so that they can observe where the variation in products is concerned. What does that mean, practically? Practically someone or someone who comes in can see the particular product in his or her area, what a variation he has and chooses if he wants to go to buy the particular product that has the particular variation. Here you'll see that there are two security rigs. You know that the specific groups that present their products are large with difficult accounting systems. So we have two security valves. We have the safety test that the starting value is deposited and then the next day the average value, variation of the product throughout the day. It is therefore very easy for a consumer, once he enters the system, to see: firstly, what the price is and what is the variation of the product by following the graph and, secondly, he can see what the price fluctuation is, the average price, that is, the day that passed. We've got two security nets. Price watch is not a system where someone will enter and see a price like Skroutz works. It is an Observatory, a tool for the Ministry of Development, a policy exercise and an Observatory open to consumers, which was not there because, as you know, the system was manuscript and prices were too late, so the state could not know what price fluctuations are. We've got two security folds, a good system that works and that's electronic. It is constantly being upgraded and today the consumer can actually see all price fluctuations. We have hundreds of thousands of users using this particular system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u123	Do you want to ask, Mr. President? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u124	Minister, I do not understand why you introduced this provision further, which you did not have in the original bill. Do you want to tell the National Representation that ‘e-Consumer’ is just a platform on which the consumer can see in the morning and during the day how prices go? The question is another: How does the Ministry intervene for the benefit of the consumer using this platform? And I wonder why did you say that prices might change in the course of the day when, at random, BSE asked you to listen with intensity and hadn't you anticipated it in the original provision? That's all it looks like. That you now legalise with an article, with a provision, a practice - and you know that, I am sure - that is at the expense of the weak consumer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u125	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u126	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u127	I think I was detailed in the description. It's an instrument, first of all, state-of-the-art. It's a price observatory in real time that one can see the price fluctuation. Therefore, firstly, the Ministry can really see what happened on this day - start, close, average price - and see where each product is going. Secondly, I told you that this tool is to see the consumer who varies the price, what the product is, and if the product is local - because you know that brand-dependent products have different price fluctuations - and to choose which product he is going to buy. It is not a tool that works like Skroutz, say, where you go and buy a product and compare prices and immediately go and buy it at the specific price it says. It's a price observatory. Do not confuse that this tool is for the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Mr Mamulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, before I enter the core of the bill we are discussing today, to make two comments and one observation. First observation. In fact, I take the opportunity since the previous colleague from the Change Movement has just been placed. I think, Minister, that it needs to be made clearer. It's not possible. We all realize the time shift from the eighth morning to the tenth. The question is this, which you are even baptizing 'nominal improvement', while we know that it is fully in line with the culminations of BSE, as was noted in the hearings of the institutions, so the question is clear and is put to the table for the third time in fifteen minutes: What is the intention? The ‘e-consumer’ is not just an observatory of the situation. It also enables the state to intervene where the things are actually found to be gloomy. This is the central philosophy, this should nurture your decisions and legislative improvements, because it is being baptized 'legislative improvement'. Secondly, the famous article 10 on Amendment No 842. I really don't hide you that I was surprised. At the last moment, after so many months of public consultation, after so many hours in the hearings of the committees, we did not know at all, and yesterday an amendment comes, and in particular Article 10 thereof, where it substantially changes a central legislative intervention of the past, which in practice went well. And I'm coming to the practicer. What do we have here? We have in the implementing instruments a step in the way of controls to determine whether, with progress in the work, there are corresponding disbursements and the auditors, of course, certify this correct management. There is, therefore, the request, namely the accumulation of many cases which make this work difficult for the auditors. At this point I would remind you that the previous SYRIZA government dropped this need to 50%, so that 50% would be paid without physical control in order to be able precisely for this reason - but all the cases were controlled - to unload this accumulated case for auditors who were few auditors with many cases. However, we have this paradox here - and I say it paradoxical - that I do not call something heavier - but that is the logic. By ministerial decision, auditors are able to be appointed - and I would remind you that basic and fundamental pathogens of the previous decades which may have been the reason why we have reached this debt crisis and the country's bankruptcy - were that few auditors had large, on the basis of budget, cases. So who and by what procedures will recommend all these tiles, the ad hoc control bodies? Because they're flat-rate control instruments. How will accidental, impersonal and imprecise creation be ensured? How will it be avoided in their case, while in the normal procedure it is not? What will he make auditors more willing who were reluctant before? And, furthermore, the awarding of the audit firms to what criteria, Minister? I'm saying it very clearly. I want an answer for the criteria. You cannot today legislate and have not provided for the criteria. This, as you can see, is made clear to us otherwise. Now there have to be the criteria, otherwise there is a serious risk and the fragmentation of money, of plastic certifications, but also of other issues that may arise. After all, these are in the control manuals. Why don't you keep the same and report other cases? And to close with something important. You've been government since 2013, that is, before SYRIZA and we continued it. It started and created a clear treaty that the traditional nightmares of development laws, where we all know it was a centre of dismantling and a wound to public control, moreover, in 2014 was clear in this direction, and we went there too, where we opened a door of right and fair control, you come from the window and create conditions of alteration of this very legacy. As far as this draft law is concerned, it is essentially in full harmony with No 4442/2016. It's a law passed by the previous government. It is an initiative that was an obligation of the country in the context of the reforms of the third financial adjustment programme. A similar law had also been passed by the previous government, and indeed by Mr Hatzidakis' office, but it has never been implemented. This reform was intended to gradually simplify the authorisation procedure in all the economic activities of the country. It follows from the above that at least at one general level a wider political consensus is reflected in the process of simplifying licensing. But our political differences, I think, exist and are distinctive in this law too. For us, any such initiative serves, above all, legal certainty and, of course, the public interest. For you the vision of market liberalisation often sacrifices public security on this very altar. However, in order not to spoil the pleasant climate of consensus of today's sitting, I will not describe the remarks on today's bill. Let us just say that the Minister has shown some zeal at some points. I hope that, by the end of the meeting, at least some of them will be reviewed, especially for what I have highlighted at the beginning of my speech. Time is pressing and I understand that the next series of other speakers is coming. I would like to focus on Articles 18 to 25 of Law 4442/2016 as a simplified procedure. There the law reader finds this paradox. Article 19 provides that sealing a hotel accommodation is possible not after a repetition of a specific and prolonged infringement but when a direct risk to the public interest arises. Very good. When this danger arises, the Minister does not share it with the House. As also does not share with the House here today at the National Representation who states that there has been a direct risk to the public interest. The truth is that this provision is not a ruffe. It is an increase in the ability of political leadership to make ruffles in the future. Let's go down. Article 55 introduces the institution of the postal lockers to recall here that postal lockers have been in private areas in our country for a long time. Now what are they doing? What is the present government doing? He's moving on to a public place. Watch out. And from a spatial point of view, the public space is good news. We must be careful, first of all, to study what we want to do and, above all, where. Let me remind you that there are public green areas, there are passages, there are bus stops, there are emergency exits. Where exactly? No mention. I think that also shows the curiosity of approaching this issue. As far as industrial parks are concerned, reference was made earlier. I think it's a photography. SIMEONI (ARC). — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating A very desecrated area. Unfortunately, here too, uncontrollable and without authorisation, there can be even room for waste treatment plants. And fluids and solids. Waste that was found most accumulated - because it is the most heavily charged environmentally-friendly area in the country. There should be a harmony and a proper approach to this placement. I will simply tell you that BOD and COD are units to measure the environmental burden. These are at incredible levels. The placement of such a unit should, if anything, be targeted and studied. And not wherever he wants, whoever wants, whenever he wants. In conclusion, I would like to say that for the 55% and the way in which you are going, I think the Minister's designation is funny that he was invited by the district minister and told him to resolve the matter. If that's what happened then the district commander doesn't do his job right. This is the role of local government. I'm telling you, as a former self-government. We have to be hovered through osmosis to achieve the necessary result. I think the Deputy Minister should respond in this regard, since he is in the Chamber today. He has to tell us whether this project - I always talk about the Oinophils - is destroying the constitutional right to property, it will proceed with legal certainty. So bring us, Mr Papathanassis, a legal opinion, even one that says that the owners of the land when they resort - because they will resort! - against this absolutely necessary crafts park, they will not be entitled. One at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u130	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u131	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u132	I would like to answer the questions raised by Mr Mamulakis. As we have said in the largest industrial area of our country, which is the island of Oinofytas, hundreds of facilities operate every day without generally envisioning what is necessary for the operation of industrial parks. The largest, therefore, industrial park is an informal industrial concentration. It's not an industrial park. You realize that practically a huge effort has been made. Four and a half years you've been in the country's rulership. You should not forget that. And you have never solved any problem, no informal industrial concentration. Tell me an informal industrial gathering that during the SYRIZA era was solved and became an industrial park. What does that mean, practically? To be realistic. Because at some point we have to be realistic here. We need to solve certain problems and be able to environmentally cover the operation of a park. Unless you don't care about the operation of the Oinophils that affects the entire Attica and the whole region. If you do not care that there must be appropriate conditions at some point, the biological and all the conditions to be respected in the operation of industries, will you tell us how long this state has to wait to resolve a matter or how long the state has to wait to solve the problem of Kalochori that pollutes the whole region? You know that very well. Finally, some decisions have to be made. During your administration, you have not solved any such matter. On the subject of Article 10, I do not want to turn the time back. You must have realised that the audit has already been legislated by auditing companies has already been legislated by the "Investing in Greece". Don't turn around the time. You were right to go to 50% with administrative control. That's right. From now on, however, it has already been legislated. And I must tell you that at first there was a hesitation about the use of audit firms, but now 90% -95% of the market is using audit firms. To see how acceptable this is from the market. That's where we have to look. The audit companies are companies that trust the State because they issue tax certificates. Mr. Chakalotos is here, and he knows it well. It's something you've accepted, too. So what about the audit firms? If the time has elapsed, the deadline which the services have not completed the check can be entrusted by the administration to carry out the audit to an audit firm. It's something that's already done at 90% -95%. But because they're stuck in a lot of cases, we're gonna have to kick them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u133	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u135	We're trying to solve problems. You have been put by various speakers, with Mr Mamulaki last, on the subject of Article 10. We don't like that when he blocks, the Minister decides. What did Mr. Georgiadis say in his answer? That when a system sticks - and asked us rhetorically if we think it doesn't stick - there shouldn't be a solution. In your imagination, the only solution when there are cases that are not solved is the Minister's decision? So you can't go beyond the state's ability to record delays? Who are they big, who are small, what companies are they? And untie it within the Department. And if it's a big number, make a service look at it. Now don't make fun of me. You understand our suspicion when the answer is 'the Minister's decision'. That the Minister will be able to choose which projects can go faster and what projects cannot be done. Don't do what you don't understand. But answer me what we have put to you. Mr. Georgiadis gave this terrible answer that when he's stuck, someone has to decide. And from the final state, only the Minister can decide. You have not responded to the part that Mr Mamulakis has put to you, as all the parties have put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u137	Mr Tsakalotos, in order to be able to analyse this a little better, because you served as Minister of Finance, I must remind you what you delivered in July 2019. You have given up delays - and I think you are moving on the market and you know the investment public and its complaints - at the completion of the control over two, three and four years. Do you realize what it means to an investor to ask for his work to be completed, because he has back to back cash in a guarantee letter and every month pays fines and charges? What we want to do - and I said it in my position - is slowly cutting off these roots of bureaucracy. I told you that you have given up three and four years' delays in integration. It's a pathogen that's been going for decades. What can we do? We'll have to find ways to solve it. We should trust companies that do some other business. As Minister of Finance, you accepted audit firms to issue a tax document. So why don't you accept to carry out a check, since they are real companies operating in accordance with the rules of the state? I am telling you again that we cannot in Greece today, 2021, which we want to get out quickly and speed up, wait for investors when the agency will complete the check and take two and three years, waiting for the check to come so that they can complete and get the guarantee cards or complete the loan programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Minister. Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are particularly active today, is the truth. You say 'yes' to dialogue and there is no better thing than dialogue. I love you answering everything. I have the feeling that when I finish my speech, however, you will not answer. You will not answer because you are not here. You are a very good Minister, an active minister, and I sincerely say that - but you are not here. So you won't have to vote when some things come to the Greek Parliament. You'll soon understand what I mean. After Vassilis Viliardou and the President of the Greek Solution, there really are very few things left to say about the bill. Because our rapporteur's analysis was very good, as well as the reports by the President of the Greek Solution, who, if I am not mistaken, is the only President who honoured your bill today with his presence and with a speech. What, then, is the conclusion, after two years of simplification of the Mitsotakis Government in matters of development and after the eleven painful years we have had? One is the conclusion. That not only have no investment in Greece, but many existing companies have abandoned it, such as "PITSOS" and other Greek companies. It's clear, let's not be fooled. I will draw the outline, Minister, I will not go into the articles' procedure as they have been analysed. It seems to be an obligation on lenders. They are only interested in enforcing laws in Greece, their minds are at the sale of public property and in the auctions of private property. These two are true. It is clear that the lenders are here too, and the troika is here, and that we will be captive to them for too many years. I do not think that this legislation is very helpful to the economy. I would like to tell you the example of Germany, which you have made very simple. I mean, if I want to open a business tomorrow, I'll open it. Isn't that right, Minister? I go, I make my request, and if I approve it, I open it directly. Simplification! In Germany, which I do not know if it is a more serious country than us - at least they have an economy and a trade stronger, as it is rumored - a man to open a shop, make his papers, passes through special education, from the chamber, he must show that he is capable of opening this shop, as he will have to manipulate people, he will have employees, the product, the company and then he opens it. There's a process. Here, whatever statements you are. Finally, in Greece, "what statements you are" is done by law. Madam President, I have six minutes. I may take another three minutes, a total of nine, if you are in the mood, as a parliamentary representative and not as a speaker. I want to be honest with colleagues and everyone. One cannot close one's eyes to what's going on out there. I would like to ask a question. I should like to inform the House, the Greeks and the Greeks that at yesterday's meeting of the competent advisory committee on vaccination issues of the American CDC, it was decided to extend the suspension of the 'JOHNSON & JOHNSON' vaccine. That's what the Americans did yesterday. What do we have in Greece? We have Mr. Chardalelis saying that the six side effects are acceptable, as well as the vaccine. It's no big deal. Exactly what kind of medical school has Mr. Hardalias finished and never told us? I don't really understand. Does it not concern us as a country that the Danes, I said yesterday, have finally stopped the 'ASTRA ZENECA'? Denmark said no. One has taken from here, from the government, from Greece, to the Danes to ask them: ‘ Patriots, what's going on? Why did you stop it? Have you learned anything more?’, see what's going on. What are the reasons that led them there? I shall end up somewhere, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is very difficult what the Greek has been living for a year. Compulsory masks, fines for masks. Mandatory curfew, fines for curfew. Mandatory SMS, fines for non-shipping SMS. Compulsory tests, fines for non-executive tests. Leann briefly mandatory vaccines and of course those who will not be vaccinated will also have fines and outcry and redundancies and go by saying. So, this government tried to convince the Greeks to discipline. You didn't make it. You tried like this, and people are indignant. Such "liberty" in democracy, it is certain that Pericles could never imagine it. To be clear about such democracy and such freedom. It has submitted thirteen months to the Greeks now the most stringent measures proved to be the longest and most inefficient lockdown and we are at the 'zero' point. And what's our picture, Minister? I'm sorry to say, but what's our picture? Unemployment, poverty, anguish, incarceration, illness, death, an EHS that collapses and tennis. Tennis, Minister. The Prime Minister is playing tennis. On the 13th of April, Tuesday, the day the largest number of cases were reported and the IFs were fissures, Mr. Mitsotakis played tennis. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Question: Is it illegal? Oh, no. Do you allow the tennis? Of course you'll allow the tennis. Our institutional role, let alone the Prime Minister, while his people, his citizens, are spending what they are going through, does not require the Prime Minister to play tennis. And at the end of the day, can I ask you something? I'm just a congressman, and I don't have time to fight. Where does the Prime Minister get the time to play tennis? Isn't that great? Let's go later and I'll close with it. Nowadays, you've been so badly ripped up in the cup of chop. For no other reason, I wouldn't make this report today, but today you were very badly ripped off on the sprinkle of Chopan, after the speech of the President of Greek Solution. And it's clear, I'm sure, somewhere in Maximos, at the offices of the New Democracy, you've made a tropical room and you've got the thoughts of Alexander the Great, the ones you were wearing when you went to the rallys. Listen a little. In this life everyone gets what they deserve. This is where everything will be judged. And in a few days' time you New Democracy MPs will be called in the very uncomfortable position to sign the Skopje agreements. I was listening to the Prime Minister's famous statement of veto. And for veto he said. Anyway, we're going to have a little fun. Let's go freshen our memory. Lefteris Aegias: 'Katist and nationally dangerous agreement'. Miltiades Varvitsiotis: "The completion of the drama against the jewellery of foreigners is precisely this agreement". Kostas Tasoulas, the President of Parliament, our Parliament: "No, in the Prespecies Agreement, so that Greece can be relieved...". Kostas Tsiaras: "Not an agreement that damages nationally". Adonis Georgiadis: "Agreement is nationally destructive". South Mitarakis: We have today accepted retreats that no Greek government did." Giorgos Koumoutsakos: "Give your consent and retreat with your signature". Vassilis Kikilis: "With the Prespecies Agreement you have achieved a heavy blow to Greek history." Olga Kefalayannis: "It is a dangerous compromise on our national issues." Theodore Karaoglou: "The Prespecies Agreement works as a modern Corfu portrait". Christos Dimas: "Create a national trauma in a country that has very much tried to close its national wounds". Wisdom Voutisi: "The Skopje are systematic forgers. We knew it." Apostle Vésiropoulos: 'The agreement for national interests'. Theocharis: 'Not in the incompetent' agreement. Stavros Kalafatis: "Do not the government understand that we will welcome Macedonian Prime Minister and not the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia?" Christos Stakoras: "The agreement is heterogeneous, nationally detrimental". Helena Raptis: "Who would have thought the eternal lyrics of "Macedonia are renowned and you will be Greek, Greeks the pride", would be erased."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u140	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I shall end. Nikos Panagiotopoulos: "As Greeks Macedonian and proud, I must state that it offends my national conscience." Makis Voridis, here ended it: "You are a government of national mining". Where are these MPs, Kyranakis, Bogdan and Costas Gülekas? They're gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Colleague, you have spoken more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I shall end. I said from the beginning I need nine minutes. Six plus three. I'm a parliamentary representative. I'm not a speaker. I'm at nine minutes. I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u144	Okay, you're a parliamentarian, you're not a Chief!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u145	Don't mess up for two minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u146	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much. What are we asking for? And why are we talking about this? I'll see you around to show your hypocrisy. Because now you are dragging SYRIZA and you are licking him for the gala he did with the self-government with Mrs. Jack and the votes of the offenders - and you are doing it well, hit him down like the octopus - but it will be time for yours here to tell us what you will do and what you will vote on. And you bring a roll-call vote. On 23-4-2020, just a year ago, we tabled to the President of Parliament a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the Ambassadors' Agreement. It was tabled by the Greek Solution a year ago. Have you seen a committee of inquiry? It's changed now. You don't need thirty signatures. The President of Parliament must bring this to a debate in plenary, it is obliged, and the plenary will decide whether or not to set up the committee. Where's that, Mr. Tasoula? Why don't you bring it, Mr. President? Why don't you bring it in for a year? On 23 April 2020, he deposited this Greek solution. And what we ask and I close with it. We are asking for any responsibilities of political persons, whether or not there have been smuggling of officials, which we have heard at the time, for bags, for money, for deals. That's what we want. Bring it to wash off, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u149	We're done, Mr. President. You're very...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u150	Mr Colleague, your President has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u151	We've been here since 9:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u152	What does that mean? Whoever's from 9:00 is going to talk any more?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u153	Not even one of our MPs spoke. Did the pain catch you with us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Comrade, you had seven minutes and you spoke 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u155	And off-site, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u156	It's a parliamentary right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u157	Please. Everyone's talking out of the question, but anyway. That's not the point. I say something very simple, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, due to the fact that President Velopoulos spoke thirty-five minutes, had half the year. He spoke exactly twice as much. I would point out this and say that for everyone, in order to be careful and to proceed with the process. Mr Themistoklis Himaras has the floor from New Democracy. Please be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u158	I will, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that in the Oinophilus region, more than four hundred - five hundred businesses of all sizes and sectors are active. This is where 40% of the total industrial output of the country is produced. The problems of unregulated development, environmental pollution are known and dragged for too many years. That is why let me have a special knowledge, because in 2015 as a regional authority at the time, on the initiative of the then regional director Kostas Bakoyannis, we set as the primary aim the creation of a business park in the region and, of course, the resolution of Asopus, an effort that is still going on today also dynamically, as well as the regional director of Stereas Greece Mr Spanos. This effort has been implemented and sealed in close cooperation, it is the truth, with the previous government, of Article 11 of Law 4605/2019, which, of course, the New Democracy has then voted in favour. Of course, the fact that SYRIZA as a government legislated in 2019, before the elections, does not mean that he had the inspiration or the initiative. Allow me to do this, I know that personally. The region raised the issue, prepared the plan, informed the Commission, frozen the funding and put all the relevant bodies on the table. But that doesn't matter. It is important for the project to be completed. By this law, the informal industrial concentration of winefruits was described as an area in need of environmental and operational resolution. The law, in addition, puts in place as a prerequisite for the 55% agreement of the landowners, which, to date, has not been achieved. As the Minister of Agriculture has made clear during committee meetings, the article focuses exclusively on the issue of spatial planning. It does not include a possibility of expropriation of any property, it does not interfere with the property regime. It provides the uses of public spaces, the management of the park, access to valuable funding. With the lifting of the requirement to ensure a minimum discount rate for the Oinofyta business resolution park, it is chosen to cut off a Gordian link of decades that prevents the placement. So please, some people don't make fun of the world. If we don't legislate today, there won't be any. Let me also give an answer to the question raised by the Minister of Agriculture during the meeting of the committees, where he said that 'I do not believe there is any other European country that you can actually meet such a large industrial concentration that the state has never dealt with'. I confirm this question, Minister. I do not know myself because I have been in the team working with the European Commission for this project since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the image of Greece, which was dominated in previous years abroad, is a country that is blocking investment, hosting the business environment and constantly putting bureaucratic obstacles. One-and-a-half-years was the time needed to get an environmental approval from an undertaking. Approximately three hundred days was the time for a large company to be licensed in a new building. The first findings of the Ministry of Development's working groups set up to identify the malfunctions of business licensing procedures showed that everything was afflicted by a multi-teaching, bureaucratic system. Allow me a little parentheses here, in order to refer to the essential source of the problem. Civilization of the administration. That is where the source of the problem lies. I am referring to the lack of trust between administration and political authority, the parallel suspicion of both sides, publicity and political power. And if we want to be honest, from 1974 until now successive Greek governments have sought, other less, to conquer public administration through personal customer networks or party mechanisms. In today, however, a wider political objective of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is both the improvement of administrative capacity and the restoration of trust between the administrative officials and their political leaders. A corresponding effort to restore confidence is also under way in today's legislation. The difference is that this relationship of confidence refers to the relationship between businesses and free professionals and government licensing and supervision services. The provisions of the draft law aim to support the enterprise and to create a more friendly environment for strengthening entrepreneurship. The bill complements Law 4442/2016 and incorporates a series of economic activities with a low risk of insulting the public interest into a simple notification scheme. I won't expand. Our rapporteur, Mr Yoyakas, has done so quite well. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another necessary piece of legislation for the New Democracy in the right direction, which is no other than the simplification of our country's afflicted and much-needed business. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour. The health crisis has started, is culminated and will end. On the good course of vaccination we'll soon cut off the finish thread. Our next match is the relaunching of the economy at a rapid growth rate. This is also the risk of the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you for the time, Mr President. Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin by saying a few words about a matter of high national importance, in my view, an issue that concerns us all. For the first time in the history of the Greek state, this government, the Government of the New Democracy, took the initiative and dared to activate the constitutional requirement for the vote of Greeks from the Greeks. In discussing the relevant bill, in the context of the broad consensus on the electoral law, which the Constitution itself demands, we accepted as government and regulation with which we disagreed. I am referring to the conditions set by the Opposition for Greeks abroad, that is to say, two years' stay in the last thirty-five years and that they have submitted a tax declaration in the previous year or this year. Now that, at last, the opposition has acknowledged that these restrictions are unfair and degrading, the government immediately took the initiative to abolish that restriction. You know very well that there is no question of transparency, since, according to the law you themselves voted on, the right to participate in the electoral process is reserved only for those who are already on the electoral lists. And as the law stipulates, after every revision of electoral lists, the parties receive the full copy of them. This remains and does not exactly change to ensure the electoral process. This is obviously not the right day and time to discuss it in detail. However, I call on you to do what Mrs Jackson has said once and for that to be done by the Stepma once and for that to be stopped at last. Your attitude is judged by all, and by the Greeks who live here, in our country, as well as by the Greeks of the diaspora. Help the Greek-democratics, help the universal Hellenism exercise its constitutional rights and maintain ties with the country. Regarding today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to say the following: According to the World Bank's indicators Greece ranks extremely low in terms of investment friendlyness and entrepreneurship, mainly because of the administrative practices that have been in place over the past few years. Time-consuming, complex procedures which prevented the licensing of economic activities, bureaucracy which burdens businesses and depletes the limited resources of the public administration itself, pluralism, evil, strife and inability to successfully complete a normal procedure, even for the simplest things. These pathogens are currently being dealt with by this bill, a bill with a development mark, with a new approach to Greek data. We go through the obsolete model of exhaustive preventive controls, which prevented or delayed the establishment of businesses, to the efficient model of strict controls and sanctions in the event of infringements in their operation. This is the trend around the world already since the end of the last century. That's what we do today. We demonstrate in practice that the New Democracy policy on entrepreneurship, investment and development is coherent public policy, a policy that is developing a step forward - a step towards solving the chronic problems in all areas of public administration and the market. We are strengthening entrepreneurship, competitiveness, the world of work, the whole economy and society. We support the development and protection of the public interest. We are introducing greater transparency. We are strengthening effectiveness. We are putting an end to the fragmented interpretation of provisions, which leads to controversial administrative practices, uncertainty, misuse of discretion, and even corruption. By establishing common rules of equivalency and proportionality we confirm public solvency and establish the State's trust relationship with the business world and with the citizens themselves. By modernising the framework we release people and economic resources both public and private, we simplify, digitize and accelerate procedures. We facilitate the transition to a new, digital environment that is business-friendly. We are strengthening the supervisory role of the state. All operators welcomed the simplification of procedures in economic activities. They also recognised that this bill combats pluralism, bureaucracy, maladministration and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of the end of the pandemic today. Throughout the period the New Democracy Government has not confined itself to dealing with the unprecedented health crisis. Despite difficulties, we speed up reforms, because when the pandemic passes, the big bet will be the economy. So we shape the state with a look at tomorrow, a state that will no longer block, but serve the citizen, support and promote entrepreneurship, investment and development. We restored our country's international credibility. We have earned market confidence and are already being accepted for flag-investment. Today we are doing another big step, one step forward. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. We are now continuing with the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis. Mrs Poulou will then be given the floor, and then we will have Webex. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this hour, one would say - Mr Minister, the political management of the pandemic... First of all, so as not to think that I will be avoiding the bill today's position is negative. It's negative for very specific reason. Mera25 believes that the present draft law you are going to vote on today - unfortunately for us - does too much, too much gifts to the private sector and attention, not to the small or the medium-sized, not even the medium-sized, but to the huge, so-called private sector, as the Greek people call it. That is why our attitude is negative. It is clear, Madam President, that the political management of this pandemic has now collapsed completely. And when we say completely, we mean in every sense the term completely. The government has now clearly abandoned every effort to structure any specific policy and seems to be allowed to drift into an ungrateful boat from the waves of a ignorant sea that looks at it shines, drowns it. As far as Mr Georgiadis is concerned - and I am sorry that he is not here to give me an answer - we have really been confused by the other Minister, your government, who is defending this bill here today. Mr. Georgiadis spent on Monday, three days ago, speaking on a show by Mr. Papadakis at "NT-1", said neither too much nor too much that the opening of tourism is not necessarily linked to the opening and the focus, of course, by "fire" to all the people who work for the focus. On Tuesday, before, as I like to say, "You're voiced, three times.", on Tuesday, the next day, speaking on the also friendly relevant channel on your side, "SKAI", said the exact opposite, that is, the focus of tourism can also be preceded. So what do you say? Would you like as a government at some point to decide what to lead and what to follow? Why are you really giving the image of a boat that goes to the unknown, with a boat of hope? The same logic applies to the retail trade. Half-a-half, let me say, the opening of the retail trade only with SMS and with appointments, click away, take away, various types of "away", which are against any experienced, as we know, consumer relationship with commerce, with its purchase. That's not how people buy. This situation is, in the end, nothing but a cynical smuggling towards all small and medium-sized businessmen, while the experience we already have as a country of the uninterrupted operation of supermarkets and huge stores clearly shows that, with appropriate protection measures, every type of business can operate, it is of course, as we understand Greece, that it belongs to a powerful lobby that your Government would like to serve. This smuggling towards society and small and medium-sized enterprises and workers must be stopped now. We officially, taking all our political responsibility from this Stepma, are asking you from tomorrow to open up the retail trade and focus and all the artistic sites throughout the country, wherever they are, with the measures and conditions currently in force at supermarkets and stores, while at the same time demanding that tourism be opened with a seventy-two-hour molecular test and rapid test at the time of entry into the country. At the same time, of course, we must immediately withdraw the ineffective and authoritarian and authoritarian measures of the SMS and the night curfew, otherwise you will suffer the faint image of a country which, while celebrating its two hundred years of independence, will be under house arrest, prisoners and only Germans, English, French, Portuguese, etc. They're going to smuggle free in the territory of the liberated country is supposed to be two hundred years ago. Think about it. I would like to raise a second point: people's markets. Look, whatever Mr Georgiadis says, and whatever he says, he did not mean what was leaking, but he leaked it, mind you that we are not going to let you - that is, we will leave our bones on the road - disappear the last genuinely free markets, the free public markets between producers and consumers and where free trade still works in the interests of both parties. We will not let you turn them into monopolies that will simply steal the Greek people. I was this morning, Madam and honourable Members, as it is my duty and responsibility at the pan-artistic rally. We started from the Ministry of Ms. Mendoni to protest, we went to the Ministry of Health to also protest to the government about the way she treats health and doctors in the country, to show them our support and eventually we returned to the Ministry of Labour to tell them that our industry is dying of famine, famine, not pandemic. I have here the announcement of the PDO for our current contributory. I'll read you some critical things and listen to them. "Third months after the suspension of the cultural sector, with a very short opening in the summer, which had no real value, the leaks to the press talk about timetables in the opening of all the other sectors of our professional and social life, but they did not find mentioning a single word about culture, theatres, concert halls, cinemas, schools of artistic education. Every day it is pointed out and leaked by various members of your Government that neural and most important for our country is the reopening of the retail trade, the hairdressing centres, the aesthetic centres, the levels of education, the churches that we do not see, they must work, but at the same time not a single word for people who work in culture. All this time, the government has shown considerable indifference for workers in culture and the minimum and abstract benefits have been granted after struggles, after an unprecedented conflict in our industry. The same indifference was shown for artistic studies, keeping dramatic schools, dance schools and utility closed, while rehearsals have similar function to other rehearsals, which are normally done. He failed to set up a new framework for all schools in relation to education, leading them to a dead end and bringing students of all these schools confronting them, Minister, with the risk of their year being lost or even not being able to finally graduate, be lost years from their lives." "The Panhellenic Acroma View Federation had sent a letter from November 2, 2020 to EGEY and the Committee on Infectiouss, asking at last what criteria were imposed on culture before the general lockdown was imposed on Athens. We never received an answer. So we repeat the question and reserve all our legitimate rights," says HOME, the association of spectacular spectacles of Greece. "By what process and criteria were the specific economic measures for culture decided on?" They will not stop if they do not get adequate answers for the reasons that the industry has been driven to this point. And to understand, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point that this sector has been driven, I will immediately submit to the Minutes. Do you know what this is? This, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, is the largest change in the turnover for all Greek economy enterprises in the last year. Listen: Construction increased by 18.7%, mining and quarrying by 17.6%, professional, scientific and technical activities increase by 3.9%, agriculture, forestry and fisheries increase by 2.1%. And now you hear: Transfer and storage degradation, 31.9% minus, property management 37.7% minus, education - private, I imagine -50.8% minus, accommodation and catering services, i.e. hotels, minus 63.6% within one year. And at the end: Arts, entertainment and entertainment - official element is - minus 88.2%. That just means - and whoever doesn't understand it simply does what he doesn't understand - death for people who serve culture and arts in our country. Minus 88.2%! Rejoice! It's your accomplishment! I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, because I am time-consuming, I do not want to trouble you, I will now come to another crucial issue, and after I say in passing, only for self-tests a word that I think needs to be said here. Look, these self tests that you've allegedly turned into the panacea that will save us, you know very well why you have scientifically enough valid people around you in your ministries and, above all, in the committees that are more than our parties, how unreliable they are. You know that 40% of them are wrong by preliminaries. In the best case, four out of ten are for flying. You know that they are subject to the possibility that it does not interest the man who will come out positive to reveal it and hide it. You know, in the end, that they may give a shockingly incorrect picture of the pandemic and where it is in our country. And you do, instead of doing in their place rapid test which is much more reliable and which experts, health practitioners and doctors certainly do. And if the argument is that it is allegedly cheaper, I would inform you that from the paper we received from the cost committee, which is 10 euros each, 40 million for 10 million self-tests, and from your announcement that all the Greek people are going to do, if the Greek people are happy and responding two weeks, that is, 20 million Greeks to do the week, you said but you never did it, only the students do so up until now, but if we assume that you will achieve it, then we will find ourselves in front of the terrible possibility of giving 80 million euros a week for self-test, which is essentially useless. And most of all, if you make a reduction in time forward, you will see that they will reach this billion by the summer without any effectiveness. Now, I'm going to close up with something that we consider very important at Mera25. It is an answer to the Vice-President of the SYRIZA Government, Mr Drasakis, which seems to have hit on him when we told him that he did what he was going through as Vice-President, so that there are no protection limits for the players of the OPAP and he started to shout. We don't yell. We always entreat civilized. I will tell you a little story - I have time to say it, Mr President - which is indicative and it says it all. The new Rules of Procedure of the Gaming Control Committee shall be adopted on 5-6-2015. The chairman of the committee then, Mr Antonis Stergiotis, recommends concrete changes to the regulation with a view to - what else? - the protection of players under the regime of ten-year-olds, i.e. men of the genocide. Such changes were the definition of the maximum daily amount that players could lose at 80 euros, limiting their working hours to twelve o'clock at midnight, from the two after midnight that was in place until then, as it has been found that psychologically players go crazy and lose their hair and clothing after this hour and increase the so-called response rate, i.e. increasing the time between two rounds of online game for the player. The changes recommended at that time by the chairperson of the committee at the first meeting for the ratification of the new regulation, which takes place on 5 June 2015, are welcome, thankfully, and even unanimously by the members of the committee. Every decision of the Committee on Gambling, however, needs two meetings to be ratified. The following meeting was held for the following week, namely on 12 June 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall end in a minute and a half, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. During the week before the committee's second ratification meeting, the committee receives a letter from the president of the OPCW - Czechoslovakia, so that we do not forget - Mr Ziegler, with whom he addressed the chairman of the committee, Mr Steriotis, in a strict style, says 'What changes are you going to make? You will blow off the OPCW in the air, meaning, of course, that with the changes, Stergiotis, there will be a loss in the profits of the OPCW, of course - I would remind you - which automatically means that at the same time the losses will be reduced by the pockets of the poor Greek citizens who would end up with the OPCW funds. I would remind you that the committee meetings are classified. But Mr. Ziegler - Oh of the miracle! - he knew the president's suggestion and the decisions of the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control before they were even ratified and made public. Who gave him that information? The answer will come a few days later and before the second meeting of the committee on 12-6-2015 for ratification. At that time, Mr Katakrazis, a member of the committee, presents himself to the committee, Mr Drasakis, but also to Mr Drasakis, who, I would remind him, was Vice-President of the SYRIZA Government, suddenly appears and uninvitedly and delivers to the chairman of the committee, Mr Stergiotis, a document from the OPAP with the name of the sender on manuscripts. That's the document. I will present it shortly to the Minutes of Parliament, so that the Greek people know what's going on in here. So, manuscripts on who? The Director of Communications and Partnerships of the OPAP, Mr Ulysseas Christoforou. In this document the OPCWC asks the chairman and the Toy Control Committee not to proceed with any of the changes they have decided on in the regulation on the operation of toys so as to avoid harming the receipts of the OPCW. We are tabling this document at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Comrade, he spent half a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u164	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I only have one page to say, let me go if you please. We have tabled this document so that the Greek people will know what happened at the very time at the expense of him and from whom the specific politicians have expelled this at his expense. Three are, I think, the very interesting rhetoric questions that certainly arise here. Firstly, who informed the administration of the OPCW about the non-approved decision of the committee meeting on 5-6-2015, when the law expressly states that all these decisions are secret? Secondly, in what capacity does Mr Katakrazis, who is seated by the Vice-President of the Government himself in the committee, transfer as courier the claims - to the chairman of Mr Ziegler's demands that the Rules of Procedure should not change? Was Mr Katakrazis a member of the Gambling Control Committee or was he an employee of the OPCW?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u165	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u166	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Thirdly - and perhaps the most important question - why is the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, rather than uninforming the administration of the OPAP, announcing the chairman of the committee himself, Mr Stergiotis, even sending him his 'right hand', Mr Katakakis, with this document of the Directorate-General for Communication? It is clear that, from that moment on, both the Deputy Prime Minister and his man in the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Colleague, we've reached fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u168	They had adopted and even expressed as their own positions the positions of the OPAP and the Czech Republic Mr Ziegler. It is also obvious that since that time the Greek people have been abandoned. And I have to say to you, if you do not like the intervention of Drasakis you are now ruling and the change to the regulation that has not been made and left to the measures of the OPAP and its Czech owners, change it today, Mr Ministers. Otherwise, be quiet. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. Mrs Panagiou (Giota) has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today in plenary shows once again that the reflexes of the Mitsotakis Government are hopelessly slow. They cannot respond to the pressing needs of society. I particularly want to refer to this Step and stand by the lawyers in Boeotia, who are now outside the courts and claim the opening of the courts with all the health protocols, the exemption from insurance contributions, the exemption from the 2020 trade fee and the suspension of tax obligations. They also sadly belong to the invisible who you did not support as government along with the people of culture and many, many others. The government of so-called excellence cannot guarantee an effective development policy. It took twenty-two months to prepare a bill that will finally dismantle the integration of various economic activities in the framework of an authorisation issued by the SYRIZA Government with the emblematic N.4442/2016. "A little late, rather than never," says our people, Minister, even though your clear oligopoly cost them expensive. Especially in the pandemic, when society assembles desperately seeking development prospects to get out of the stagnation, you again prove to be inferior to the circumstances. Why are you delaying so much? Is it because of your day-to-day work on TV windows? Mr. Georgiadis is here, he'll listen to me. Is it because you were tired of the unexistent demolitions in the Greek? Is it because you wasted a lot of energy to open up without any plan for businesses and you have finally destroyed several of them? Or is it because you were consumed in the keys packed to you by the focus businessmen? Whatever it is, Minister, it is a question of wondering why you have been delaying almost two years to present a bill that did not have to start from scratch. The SYRIZA government has ensured that there is a simple and modern framework for the authorisation of economic activities at your disposal. After twenty-two months of provocative failure, you are now presenting a bill that is fortunately based on the legal deposit of SYRIZA. Of course, your attempt to indulge it is obvious, but no one is convinced. Businessmen know very well. But I wish you had enough of that. Unfortunately, you have again managed to keep your bill out of setbacks, failures, surprises and unpleasant surprises. And the most important return, of course, is that of Article 32 of the present, which abolishes the consent of 55% of the landowners to the creation of the business settlement park in Oinophitas, that is, the article that draws out this emblematic project from the certain rails that SYRIZA had put it in with Law 4605/2019. The article that upset the local society of Oinophytas and the Mosque of the Municipality of Tanagris and raised a storm of reactions. Minister, I come from the Boeotia Prefecture and am well aware of the situation in the largest informal concentration of industrial activity in the country. Over a thousand industrial and craft industries representing about a third of the total domestic gross value added, as well as 12% to 15% of industrial exports. Sadly, however, this precious motor operates in chaotic conditions, without any spatial planning, without any environmental care. The prosperous river is burdened, while the effects on the health of the inhabitants of the wider area are important. How did the SYRIZA government deal with this situation? With methodicity and holistic design, but, above all, with the consent of all the stakeholders. This latter is the most important component of any serious attempt to resolve chronic pathogens and I repeat it in order to inspire it: consensus. The government of SYRIZA, therefore, brought to the same table the Ministries of Development and the Environment, the Region of Central Greece, the Municipality of Tanagras and the economic operators of the region, and succeeded with continuous and broad consultation the establishment of a single strategy for the reorganisation and economic development of the area, which was reflected in Law 4605/2019. And while it was planned for the next two years to complete the studies and finally reach the project file at the Ministry's General Secretariat for Industry, you are now coming to blow everything off. By abolishing the requirement of consent of 55% of the landowners as laid down by Law 3982/2011 you are drugizing the entire effort, because we all know very well that without their consent there is the great risk of mass appeals in Greek or European courts. Don't you understand that the court disputes are going to vaguely stick to the work? Mr Minister, the valuable chapter of the consensus, which has been wasted over the past few years, is being eliminated by Article 32. Tell us what concrete actions have been taken in the twenty-two months and what specific problems the body has encountered to ensure 55%, to assess whether, in fact, your action is justified. Or has nothing happened at all and now to cover the challenging oligopoly are you bringing this disastrous provision? You said in your speech that you were expecting the parties of the Development Company of the Business Park of Winife (ENPI) to agree with each other. Do you think that on this pretext you're extinguishing your responsibilities? Instead of pushing them to speed up procedures, you create chaos from nowhere, unilaterally changing agreements, as in Greek, and some involved learn them from newspapers. But, apart from allergy to consensus, you also have a nerve, as it takes a lot of nerve, Minister, to say that you bring the order, because you only want the park to be made. So, those who oppose your own provision don't want it? Nor does the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, nor does the Pan-Hellenic Association of Enterprises in Industrial Areas, nor does the Mayor and the Tanagra Municipal Council want it? The last ones you deceived them, in fact, by saying that they care about votes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. However, it is worth carefully reading the decision of the municipal council, to understand the sincere anxiety of the people of self-government, because they are the ones helping to consult and consent, since every day they come into contact with the local society and are accounted for in it. At the same time, however, Minister, your Government is not telling us about the sincere intentions and interest in solving the overall problems of the region. I am referring to the environmental burden and the precarious health situation of citizens. The responsibility, of course, is borne by the Ministry of the Environment, since it did not work on the planned Office of Environmental Inspectors in the Oinofytas, although it had even been designated as a director, and the function of the Environment and Health Watch was suddenly interrupted. It also has responsibility for the Region of Central Greece for the characteristic delay in the implementation of the integrated village investment. The concern of the local society is expressed by the Mayor of Tanagras by letter to the Secretary-General of the Environment in January 2020, noting that the non-compliance with the state's commitments creates concerns and a lack of confidence among citizens in the whole project. I'm filing this letter in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u171	Please, my colleague, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one paragraph. Ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the immediate withdrawal of Article 32 so that the work of the Oinofyta park does not come back to zero again. The only thing you can do, Minister, in the resolution of Article 32, is to turn the business park for the refining of the Oinophils into a ghost-project, as is unfortunately the Greek one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u173	We are now continuing with Mr Vassiliou - Petro Spanaki from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill from the Ministry of Development and Investment, with which the Government of New Democracy continues and complements the process that New Democracy first started to simplify the framework for economic activities. It is a bill that clearly concerns development, further strengthening of entrepreneurship, attracting investment. And it is very important today's bill, because it concerns small and medium-sized enterprises most of all. If we wanted to try and give a summary title to this bill, the most appropriate title would be: "Electricity and speed in entrepreneurship" with simple words. The adventure that we have experienced for a year has brought about a serious economic crisis. The pandemic hit the real economy. The Government of New Democracy, the staff of the Ministry of Finance, the staff of the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, all Ministries, acted from the first day of time, methodically and took targeted and effective support measures and will continue to take measures after the pandemic to strengthen the economy, liquidity, employment, protection of the productive fabric of the country. We have in front of us in Easter, we have the opening up of the focus, the opening up of tourism. With the first part of this bill we are debating and with which most of Parliament's basic wings have agreed, the simplification procedure for...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u175	Until the technical problem is resolved with Mr Spankis' connection, we will continue with Mr. Apostolos. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the simplification of the framework for economic activities initiated by us with No 4442/2016 was intended, through the modernisation of the institutional framework for the authorisation of economic activities, to circumvent obsolete administrative practices with the ultimate aim of liberalising human and economic resources. Today, Minister, about two years after the takeover of power, you come to supplement this legislation, which is why we agree that the purpose of this bill is in the right direction. But it is negatively signalled by the multitude of authorizing provisions, most of which could be developed and incorporated as provisions of the law. Example: Simplifying and redesigning the procedures necessary for the establishment and operation of businesses, of course, and this is an important prerequisite for the development and attraction of investments. But it's not enough, and you know that. Other combined measures are needed to be assessed by investors before they take their decisions. Another issue is the transfer to the Organisation for the Industrial Property of Trademarks Responsibilities. All responsibilities for trade marks are transferred to the Agency, and what comes from this transfer may be regulated again by ministerial decisions. However, it would be advisable to know certain details relating to the staff of the Trade Marks Directorate, as well as the organisation's ability to cope with this work. Two words on the issue of the infection of Asapus. We, ladies and gentlemen, as a government of SYRIZA, have committed ourselves to over-concentration of Asylum from the over-concentration of industrial activities on the Oinofida - Chalkida - Thebes and at the same time to exploit an existing industrial fabric and the corresponding human potential to give the region a new industrial spirit, with emphasis on technology, innovation, competitiveness and high added value. These, with the regulation that we voted on in March 2019, entered a process of implementation not only by drawing up a comprehensive strategic intervention plan in the river basin, but also by developing a business reorganisation park in the Vineyard Industry - Shape. At the same time, of course, we have also secured the resources needed to implement it from the NSRP 2014-2020, from the national part of the Public Investment Programme and private sector involvement. And the most positive thing for all is that this strategic plan has come about as a result - I stress - of the consultation procedures with the Region of Central Greece, the Municipality of Tanagras, the business world and all those involved. So you found it on the best terms. You, unfortunately, are abolishing the obligation of the private body set up by Article 32 of the bill to consult the owners of land and the established undertakings in order to obtain their agreement. The project will not proceed unless the necessary consent of the interested parties is obtained. The purpose of the resolution will not be achieved and all attempts at decades will fall into the void, either by massively justified or non-social conflicts, or by endless legal proceedings, through which it is, unfortunately, considered that this provision will be suppressed because it significantly affects the fully guaranteed right of individual property. And I come to the renewable energy sources. It seems, Minister, that you do not have the speeding up of licensing procedures for the installation of wind farms, which - I stress, with a tool - the RAE itself enables known companies to space themselves and be strangled in the mountainous peaks of Evia for who will grab, take most of the recovery fund. Now you are preparing other steps, at greater speeds, such as the concessions, the reduction of the guarantee letters and others. However, you should be aware that the reactions of local societies will continue. Two words about your decision to amend the institutional framework for the operation of the people's markets. All farmers producers and sellers of products involved in these markets throughout the country are in dissatisfaction. Because, Minister, firstly, the people's markets from their establishment ensure lower prices and better quality and, in particular, build confidence between producers and consumers and, secondly, producers and professional sellers who currently operate on these markets have described your bill as a 'floorboard', so its withdrawal is a one-way path for you. I conclude with the number 848 amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development on controls, to remind colleagues that a few days ago we voted for the corresponding European Union directive, which was held by the Ministry of Rural Development two years in its drawers, and today we come to establish control issues by which procedures? With those who were unable to implement the same thing in good time yesterday. So sloppy - you understand - is the main feature of the government's legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you for the time too. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a draft law to facilitate entrepreneurship, a serious and documented text with the beginning, mid-term and finally, a piece of legislation that shows the philosophy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in relation to licensing, development and support to investors by means of administrative measures. Such simplification, digitisation and, of course, consultation of the parties concerned. In the new Republic, growth is not being ordered and is not automatic. On the other hand, it is only the result of systematic work, a specialised study of each industry, the exploitation of international experience, and of course with serious policies, carried out by responsible people. SYRIZA is on the opposite side of this philosophy. We heard Mr Tsipras announcing his own recovery plan the day before yesterday, even accusing the government that he was supposedly not taking into account society. I think that the best answer to Mr. Tsipras was given not by the New Democracy this time, but by his former Minister, Mr. Kontonis, who compared the Tsipras announcements with the recent Erdogan announcements that he will share potatoes and onions with the Turkish citizens. Any similarity - you would add - is not random. But let's see what SYRIZA's proposal for recovery and development is. Unfortunately, her core is in the fraud of seismicism, which comes to the fore once again by Mr. Tsipras, years after her first use in the period 2012-2014. He obviously believes that the Greek people forgot what Mr Tsipras said earlier and comes back with the same false promise. He attempts to deceive citizens again with promises, that he will 'done' taxes, insurance contributions and loans. All this, of course, is making it safe for him, as he knows that he will not even be asked to do that. These unrealistic announcements by SYRIZA show that it has lost all hope of returning to power, since it is obvious that no seismicism can do. This is probably the reason why the former Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Tsakalotos, has avoided to identify himself with the previous Tsipras announcements, which lack any seriousness: 'haircut' of any kind of debt, total cancellation of interest and increment, permanent 'freeze' of non-performing bank loans. He even promised to grant insurance contributions for the maintenance of jobs, which Mr Tsipras obviously does not know that it is already done, which is why he promises again. Minister, in the face of this SYRIZA policy, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis continues to follow a course of seriousness and responsibility. With stability it gradually leads the country beyond the economic crisis and is directly facing the health crisis, as both amendments tabled by the relevant ministries show. The first is to increase the Public Investment Programme by EUR 1,250,000 to strengthen public health and to take measures against the coronary, and the second is to carry out rapid test by the municipalities themselves for coronary with their own medical and nursing staff. These are very important interventions, which also help to tackle the pandemic. The bill itself introduces measures to deal with the economic crisis, promoting the simplification of the start-up of activities for various categories of activities by simply communicating, i.e. with a responsible statement by the businessman to the competent authority. As you know, the licensing procedure was particularly time-consuming, allowing in some cases transaction effects for the issue of authorisations for establishment and operation. The notification shall be submitted exclusively electronically and shall not be accompanied by any supporting documents. Such economic activities concern schools for maritime education and vocational training for transporters or road vehicles for the carriage of dangerous goods, as well as workshops for cars and motorcycles or motorcycles. Parking areas, washing machines or lubricants of vehicles, long-distance bus stations and heavy-duty parking areas are included in this simple notification scheme. At the same time, for reasons of public interest, approval is required by the competent authority, instead of simply notifying itself, before starting to operate for a number of other activities directly related to human safety and life, such as parks, iceports, elderly day-care centres, day-to-day care centres for SMEs and sea-to-day recreation operations. For the notified economic activities, the Notify Business portal has already been implemented, where the competent supervisory authorities are informed by the operator of the commencement of an installation or of the operation of its activity and of any change thereof. This portal later comes to incorporate the new activities that we are currently integrating into this notification regime. Mr President, I would also like to dwell on Article 30, which regulates the development and operation of organised infrastructures for processing and business. They shall be exempted from the obligation to obtain authorisation, subject to a simple notification scheme, all undertakings established in a BIP and BEPT business park. Obviously the normal licensing regime continues to apply to those activities that are subject to a risk control regime for large-scale accidents or because of the presence of hazardous substances in their installations. This simplification is also important in the case of the presence, as in the wider area of Volos there are industrial areas that need support and, of course, a simpler operating framework in order to develop. I conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about Article 58 and the consultation procedure for the sectoral and regional programmes of the National Development Programme. Beyond all doubts, consultation is a key pillar of good planning and is part of our development policy. The parties concerned must be involved in the formulation of the priorities and the relevant ministries must listen to proposals and comments, but all this must be done in good time. What does that mean? That, on the basis of this provision, I have brought an example from the process of drawing up the operational programmes of the new ESDP. There have already been long delays due to the unexistent preparation of the SYRIZA in its governance, which the ESRB effectively ran in 2014-2020. I would remind you that the first relevant circular was issued just before SYRIZA left power in July 2019. We also need to take into account the operational problems of the special management services, the problems of years with an interoperable bureaucratic culture, slow pace and lack of initiatives. Today, however, we are in an extraordinary treaty that requires both speed and attitude change. The pre-existing way of working, which SYRIZA has also suffered, cannot remain a model for today and tomorrow's development in our country. The resources of the ESDP are absolutely and urgently necessary, not only for a winter economy but mainly for our society. And in this direction I am sure that the political leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment will continue its efforts in order to finalise the operational programmes of the new ESDP very soon, so that the implementation of the 2021-2027 programming period will start quickly with the immediate utilization of all available financial instruments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Spankis is with us? Because Mr. Spanakis can't hear us, we're moving on with Mr. Gregoriadis. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, thank you very much. I wanted very briefly to inform you and the House that Merra25 today submitted as a moral amendment concerning the full-hearted examinations of our Spanish high school. I would like to inform you of this amendment that we will be re-introducing it for two months, in other words, in every bill that the government will bring, because we want to raise awareness of both the government - we hope to change Mrs Kerameos's attitude - and of the Greek people, of the injustice that the new regulations passed on to the students of the summer high school will bring to the attention of Mrs Kerameos' education bill. In particular, we are talking about the abolition of a 1% premium for these pupils on the argument of isology, to be equal to the other children, who, however, do not work for eight to ten hours and who have no parents who have money to send them care. So, because we consider that this allegedly equality claim is entirely inappropriate, we will be here, Mr President, to put the government in a difficult position. We will remind you every week that it is time to restore this inhuman injustice. Thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Dimitrios Biagi from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year of pandemic is enough to bring our concerns to bear on market tomorrow. In today's bad economic situation, unfortunately, the memorial period seems to be a bad dream as opposed to the great nightmare we are experiencing today. The current economic treaty is harder and inhumane than ever. Entrepreneurs live their own pandemic, that of the whole economic disaster. Minister, the problems that all entrepreneurs in our country are experiencing are enormous, and tomorrow business is uncertain. The main problem is the maintenance of existing companies, and secondly the start-up process of a new company. Ultimately, companies are closing down, the padlocks are on the agenda and, indeed, at this speed, the image of the market on the one hand and the shops on the other is constantly changing. Ladies and gentlemen, some economic data from the Ionian Islands Region can highlight the current situation and how the tourist regions kept Greece alive during the memorial period, but also clearly show that the island regions and tourism as a whole kept the economy up in our country in the last decade. Today, Minister, perhaps this is the time when the state with initiatives and with individual - if you like - must return this support so that, on the front of tourism, our country can take the next step in development after the pandemic exits. In 2018, the Ionian Islands Region developed at a rate of 4.7%, more than double what was recorded in our country, 1.9%. The increase in investment in the Ionian Islands was indeed impressive, taking into account the fact that investment in the entire Greek territory in 2018 decreased by 6.3%, but that in only two regions of the country there was a small increase in investment in Attica and the South Aegean. In the Ionian Islands Region, Corfu developed at a rate less than the average of the Ionian Islands region. And that, ladies and gentlemen, do you know why this is really happening? The county from which I come lacks sufficient quality tourism private infrastructure, while public infrastructures have become problematic and obsolete. At the same time, any new investment effort is eroded by an uninvesting attitude, as in addition to dazzling bureaucracy and pluralism, in addition to a lack of basic infrastructure, indigenous people no longer have attractive incentives to convince that any investment initiative will be beneficial and beneficial to them and to their country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Corfiots and the islands in general have experienced the pandemic health crisis disproportionately. In fact, the State did not do what it would have to do at this juncture, as it did not even care about the simplest, most basics, the protection of islands and mainland Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, today's business problem is not so much the simplification of bureaucratic procedures. Maybe that's it, but in part. The'measure' of evil lies in the very survival of the market and of businesses, because there have been no safeguards throughout the entire period to support the workers and the various business sectors. At this point, let me refer to the problems that arouses the chamber of my island, Corfu, and which your Ministry must see. But also from you, Minister, we expect you to solve the problem faced by workers in this area, who, despite the valuable efforts of you personally, and from your ministry, are at risk through tragic choices of management and internal ridicule to stay on the road, to lose their jobs. There is a risk that the district of the island, a body that the business world needs more than ever in these critical hours, will remain without the enthusiasm necessary to support entrepreneurship. Imagine my prefecture GEME moving to a border county due to a lack of personnel. Minister, this alone is tragic to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like as the maritime and insular policy officer in the Change Movement to stand in Articles 5, 6 and 30 respectively of this draft law. The title of Article 5 is inconsistent with the contents as it does not relate to the simplification provisions of the framework for the establishment and operation of maritime education schools. It is essential to introduce additional provisions in the existing legislative framework of L.4442/2016. Once again, the government legislates by means of authorizing provisions, since all the essential issues relating to regulation are to be defined by means of a joint ministerial decision, not only by suggesting how it perceives the concept of democracy, parliamentarianism and proper legislature, but also by demonstrating the dubiousness, if you like, of the lack of planning and perhaps even the feasibility that may be concealed behind this continuing manipulation. This regulation, in fact in the way it is formulated, does not only lead to a simplification of the respective procedure, but precisely the opposite. The purpose of bureaucracy is to provide for an additional procedure. The same is the case in Article 6. The Government shall legislate by means of delegated provisions, since all matters relating to such rules are, in fact, laid down and laid down by common ministerial decisions. The forecasts set out in Article 6, in particular those relating to the procedure for authorising the rental of marine recreational equipment, rather than leading to simplification of procedures, shall, instead, be charged to those in charge who wish to carry out the activity at an excessive level of bureaucracy and administrative costs. With regard to Article 60, of which the provisions deal with the settlement of technical issues relating to the authorisation of "Greek Shipyards S.A." and the Anonymous Real Estate, ETAD S.A.", which are the owners of distinct sections, I would say, of the ever single ownership of the Scaramaga Shipyards, this arrangement obviously serves the intended procedure, i.e. the sale of the respective sections of the yard. This is a process which, at least until now, has not produced the results we would have liked. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the largest shipyard in the country which has building and engineering equipment in operation, especially in the manufacture of warships, is modern and specialized technology, even for the construction of advanced and modern conventional submarines. This is a shipyard dedicated to high-trained, know-how and experiences that have proved their potential and value, as in the case of the delivery of the submarines '214', still meets daily challenges, work, although they have not been attributed to the workers all their jobs. We are closely following developments concerning the sale of this shipyard, knowing its possibilities and prospects, and in view of the emerging new contracts for building units for our Navy. With our agreement, Minister, we do not endorse in white the continuation of the sale of the Scaramaga Shipyards, but we remain in good faith with permanent judges, as well as "the guardians" in so far as we are concerned, and above all through our parliamentary control of the interests of the Greek public, the workers and the prospects for the development of our industrial area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement as a responsible Opposition cannot vote against such a bill. We are, however, voting against your strong conservative approach and your very obsolete political approach. You can no longer pour the pill on the patient. You must look at the very depth of the "disease" and the system itself, which is found in the policies that you are promoting, signing, agreeing and implementing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u186	Minister, it is not a problem for the procedures for economic activity, but it is the same direction that you want to give to the market. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u187	Having resolved the technical problem we had with Mr Spankis' association, I will now give him the floor for four minutes. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill complements, in fact, existing legislation and is being extended to other sectors. Thus, some branches are subject to a simple notification regime, while others, more sensitive, are subject to authorisation. In the process of simple notification, which includes schools of maritime education, workshops for cars and motorcycles, car parks and motorcycles, washing machines, long-distance bus stations and other activities - I will not repeat all of them - professionals and businesses are informing the authorities responsible for starting their activities. Thus, they are exempted from the time-consuming and often opaque application procedure, where the person concerned had to obtain a series of approvals from a number of relevant services. The state sees entrepreneurship in good faith. Another group of activities, such as leisure activities, parks, iceports, elderly day care centres, care centres for HEIs, renting sea recreational means, are for obvious reasons under an authorisation scheme. Part II of the bill includes some specific arrangements for development activity, such as arrangements for the licensing of tourist activities and arrangements for certain activities operating within tourist facilities and accommodation. I shall refer in particular to Chapter D and Articles 49-54 which contain provisions on GFCM. With today's bill, we are introducing a very important regulation by institutionalising the compulsory registration of natural persons engaged in an economic activity. In this way, we will have a truly complete register which, linked to 'TAXIS' or other information systems, will offer significant advantages in managing and handling many issues, both for public services and for employees and for professionals. Mr President, I should like to speak on Rule 55, which introduces the placing of automatic delivery machines - the receipt of postal items by courier companies. This is a very important article. Article 57, with the mandatory day-to-day entry of prices by large supermarkets on the Special Electronic Platform of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection, is a very important consumer protection regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, structural reforms, development policy through appropriate measures to support the economy and protect the affected have led to increased confidence in our country, confidence in polling, public security, but also to increased investor confidence in Greek debt documents. Additional contributions are coming, positive interventions are being made for sectors which are particularly affected, as are their forthcoming opening, such as tourism, focusing, in order to support them in the first steps of their return to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to the amendments. These are very important amendments, such as the duty-free and irrevocable and irreversible of the aid paid in the context of the working capital subsidy action to consortia for the supply of raw materials. I would also like to refer to another amendment concerning my constituency. It concerns the extension of the relocation deadline for the services of the Municipality of Greece - Argyroupoli. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are investing in returning to normality, and the next day we will find the economy strong and the businesses upright and open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much. We continue with Mr. Kavada from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of economic and business activity in Greece over the years has had to overcome a very big obstacle. It had to go beyond bureaucracy, the complexity of the administrative procedures associated with the establishment of an enterprise or the development of an investment activity. All of these are not personal findings, they are captured and documented by the indicators of global organisations. The World Bank had ranked Greece at the lowest in terms of the country's ability to facilitate business development. At this juncture we are going through and globally aiming to return to sustainable growth with a time and strategic depth, we must realise that this picture needs to be changed. And this picture only changes with bold reform efforts, such as the bill we are debating today, to simplify the framework for economic activities in our country. It is an institutional intervention linked to important areas, such as the creation of an integrated information system for the exercise of activities and audits that will support all the needs arising from licensing to control the operation of an undertaking. All procedures shall be digitalised in substance. One of the major problems that existed was that the public services did not have communication between themselves, there was no interoperability, thus delaying business licenses and investment. With the new digitalised information system, this distortion ends. And there have been many steps in this direction in building a digital state that will serve directly, intelligently and quickly. I mention features of the start-up of an individual company by means of an electronic platform, which will put an end to the mandatory visit to the tax registers, the transfer of real estate with only one 'click'. The bill, however, also contains other arrangements with a direct and practical effect which have a positive sign. Through the improvement of Law 4442/2016 it is established that a number of economic and business activities will be able to start with a simple notification. In fact, with a simple communication from every citizen, it will be possible to launch a professional and business activity. The final submission of applications to each competent authority responsible for the authorisation shall be terminated. Under the business start-up scheme, even through a simple notification to JEPs, companies such as car, motorcycle and motorcycle workshops, driver schools, CTEO stations, washing machines and lubricants, maritime education schools, car parks, motorcycles and motorcycles are included. I do not need to point out that those of our fellow citizens in the past attempted to develop similar activities were trapped in the maze of bureaucracy, delays and in many cases corruption. This does not mean that reductions in control and security are made in economic activities requiring clear control procedures and security specifications. The approval scheme includes day-care centres for elderly people, day-to-day care centres for HEIs, the operation of a pedestrian, park or circus, the rental of sea recreational media, a sector for which the Government needs to see otherwise the granting of permits for their operation. I would like here to join my voice with that of my dear colleague, Mr Ghika, and to ask for the permission to rent sea recreational means to be valid not for a year, as foreseen, but for at least three. I would say, in fact, that once the authorisation to operate on the beach could extend up to five years, the permit for maritime means and activity in the marine space could also be harmonized and extended to five. In this way, these companies will be given the opportunity to invest in their activities, to obtain better vessels, better equipment and to offer visitors quality and safety. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has as a strategic objective to make Greece a country friendly to investment. Our country has already raised nine positions in the international competitiveness index and the simplification of economic activity procedures will spectacularly improve our country's position. A major objective to be set and implemented is the creation of a specific interoperable electronic platform for investment. This platform will automatically seek out the necessary supporting documents requested by investors. Ladies and gentlemen, speeding up licensing procedures for all types of activity, professional, investment, business, was a Memorandum of Understanding. It was, however, one of those obligations which we should have carried out for a long time. Unfortunately, in our country, we have for decades been devastated by a hydro-headed state, which, instead of standing a prodigal in development, was in the way of an obstacle. It was like trying to find a role for the hundreds of agencies in tens of ministries and the role we gave them was, in the end, to trouble the citizens. With the change of the political example in our country, and with the progress of technology, this ends all. I believe that the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has put his personal stamp on this and on all the other bills that encourage and facilitate investment. They are therefore worth congratulating both to him and to the entire leadership of the Ministry of Development, because they have really defeated the inertia and put the gears of growth ahead. Today's bill removes some more obstacles from the free development of the market and the economy. This is a bill with a clear development sign that imposes strong and cross-party support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u191	Thank you for the time too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u192	I have delayed, Mr President, because I was applauding my colleague, Mr Kavvada, who made an excellent speech and thank you very much. Firstly, I take the floor to make a few more legislative improvements. It's all of a grammatic nature, but one that's of interest to you. Article 62 shall be deleted, which was the extension of the Board of Directors of the ESRB. We have some second thoughts about this and we delete the article. I mean, it's removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u193	We accept the amendment by a general number of 854 and a special 66 tabled by the MPs Constantinidis Efstathos, Brysidou Friday, Papadopoulos Michael and Amanatidis Georgios, to whom we wish to join, on the subject of "Extension of the operation of the unit of ASI Kardias IV". You have the amendment. This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u194	Let us know about the amendment. We haven't taken it, Mr. President. When was he filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u195	It is a parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u196	He's been filed for a long time. I don't know if you have it. He's there in the package. Well, let me explain, so we don't get upset. I'll read it to you, Mr. Comrade. There's no need for any grief. I have also accepted your amendment today, we must not spoil our hearts! In view of the exceptional pandemic conditions, in conjunction with the particularly low temperatures which endanger public health, for imperative reasons beyond public interest, it is necessary to ensure the continued operation of district heating. To this end, the operation of the Cardias Unit IV until 5 May 2021, i.e. for a further month and up to the limit of five hundred additional hours in excess of the operating hours provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 29 of the Decision of the Ministers for Economy, Development and Energy: ‘Definition of the framework, rules, measures and procedures for integrated environmental prediction and control’. The proposed provision extends the operation of the Heart 4 unit to cover the district of the district of Jordan to 5 May 2021. The additional number of hours of operation may not exceed five hundred hours. I think there can be no serious disagreement on this. We're giving a month of air heating to the area. Winter, as you know, you've kept enough there and we see it as temperatures are still low and COVID doesn't allow people to come out, it can't do anything. So they must be heating. I don't suppose you have any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u197	Good, thank you. The Members' amendment has been tabled this afternoon. Mr Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, thank you very much. I shall therefore begin with that, Minister. Thank you very much for your response. You accept this amendment, since there is a direct need to continue the operation of the Heart Station, the station, to meet the needs of the district heating of Ptolemais and the district, supported by district heating, given the very low temperatures still prevailing in the area. Now, let's get into the bill. "Agreements to simplify the framework for the exercise of economic activities by different Ministries for the transfer of trademarks to the Industrial Property Organisation and for the strengthening of development," the title states and brings the draft law to a vote and that is the case. The main objective of the current government's economic policy is to attract new investment, both from abroad and from within. Apart from a safe legislative and tax environment and a sound banking system, the basic condition for entrepreneurship is the removal of unnecessary bureaucratic and procedural acts. This effort, this project, had already started since 2014, essentially, by the Government of New Democracy, which had introduced the status of starting some activities in a simple procedure, i.e. submitting a relevant start-up statement. Simplification was a Memorandum of Understanding and continued by exploiting the recommendations of the World Bank, which were incorporated into Law 4442/2016, which adopted regulations that follow international practice. I do not really want to look for dimensions in issues that have ground for convergence, but by listening to the Members of the Officerial Response to be taken over for their achievements in this particular field, which have come as a result of Memorandum commitments, I cannot fail to point out the contradiction between the 'bad' memoranda and their 'good' results, which haunts SYRIZA and leads him to political paradoxes. But we do not possess such complexes. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. In the field of application the notification shall be made through the integrated information system referred to in Article 14 and, until it is activated, it shall be submitted forms or electronically, either to the competent authority or to a JEP. Of course, the simplified procedure does not affect the obligation of each undertaking to collect and maintain the necessary documentation, which should be available at any time. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. Of course, in the context of the usual 'capital' criticism, it was said that these facilities were made for large groups. Of course it is understandable to everyone that activities such as life-raising schools or trainers, workshops and car parks, motorcycles and motorcycles, and bus and heavy-duty parking are for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, facilitating overall entrepreneurship in global indicators, as measured, certainly affects the decisions of large groups on where they are going to settle. So this development is welcome. These facilities, therefore, concern small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, a safety approval scheme falls under the recreational activities of amusement parks, circus and pedestrians, the day-to-day care centres of the elderly, the AIFM centres and the renting of sea recreational media. The above arrangements do not constitute a fragmentary intervention, but are in line with the national simplification programme under Article 45 of Law 4635/2019. We must now go to the second part of the draft law, where we have similar regulations and in particular development issues, as well as market issues. Such is the single framework for carrying out the activities provided for by Law 4442/2016 for activities within special tourist infrastructure facilities - in which case they fall under the said simplified procedure - the licensing of processors and of activities related to the logistics chain and the resolution of outstandings for the development and operation of organised trainers and business units. The management of trade marks as defined in Articles 32 to 48 shall be transferred as the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Trade to the Industrial Property Organisation. In this respect, the competence of trademark issues will come to a legal person governed by public law, dealing with all matters relating to industrial property rights. This arrangement follows the international practice of single management of such relevant issues by bodies with know-how, scientific competence and flexibility and is expected to improve the conditions for the provision of the services concerned, given the high delay in the process in question on the basis of the existing structure. It was heard again by the Opposition "But you give it to individuals, but it will lose public revenue." None of this is true, of course. They were answered by the Minister and our rapporteur. False alarm again! The following articles up to 54 supplement provisions of Law 4635/2019 relating to GEMH. The most important change here is that natural persons engaged in an economic activity free of charge and without an obligation to make financial data available. In this way a comprehensive register is set up for those engaged in an activity, which will be an important and comprehensive database. Finally, Article 59 is about to deal with malfunctions and delays in the evaluation of proposals for development law, which pose significant problems to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To sum up, and this legislative initiative is part of the Government's consistent plan to encourage entrepreneurship and investment, to catch up with the important funds available to Greece and the recovery plan 'Greece 2.0', which already receives credit from the European Union for its completeness and quality, and this obliges us to be ready to implement it immediately. This objective is also served by this legislative initiative, which we welcome and which we are voting in favour of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u199	We will continue with Mr Liuta from New Democracy, then Mr Santorinios and Mr Logiadis will become a dentistry of the rapporteurs for a short time and the discussion will be concluded with the Minister. Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are moving directly and decisively towards a decisive objective, namely to facilitate and strengthen the economic activity of our country. Reducing bureaucracy, simplified and digitised procedures are today the cornerstone, one would say, support and support for business, professional and economic activity. The legislative work of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis lists to date too many acts and decisions, which satisfy a fundamental need for the whole world of work and business, namely the need to combat bureaucracy. This is always the direct consequence of the release of forces and the creation of new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the objective of simplifying the framework for economic activities continues to be substantially satisfied. In particular, a number of economic activities are part of a simple notification regime and simplified procedures are laid down for which, for reasons of public interest assurance, the authorisation procedure is maintained by the competent authority before the start of its operation. For those activities introduced into a simple notification scheme, undertakings and professionals shall only inform the competent authorities and shall be exempted from the application procedure for approval by the licensing authority. These enterprises and professionals are therefore exempted from much time-consuming procedures and can move faster towards the start of their activities. Those professionals should have assembled all the supporting documents required and retain them together with the evidence of the submission of the notification in the field of their activities. Such enterprises, i.e. enterprises enjoying a rapid start-up process, schools of maritime education, vocational training schools for transporters, vocational training schools for the transport of dangerous goods vehicles, workshops for cars, motorcycles and motorcycles, car parks, motorcycles and motorcycles, laundry washing machines, long-distance bus stations, and heavy-duty car parking. Recreational activities include parks, circus and ice-creams. In addition, there is also the daily care and care centres for elderly people, the two-day and public care centres for HEIs, as well as the renting of marine recreational facilities. We all understand why these activities obviously require the approval regime. In addition, this draft law introduces a very important provision that refers to GEMI. In particular, with the arrangements in place, natural persons engaged in an occupation will also be registered in the GFCM. The registration will be done free of charge and the aim is to create an overall register of persons carrying out an economic activity in our country. Of course I would also like to focus on the arrangements which are being introduced and which deal with the delays that are seen in the procedures for evaluating and monitoring the investment projects of the development law. Incentives are laid down in this draft law to officials involved in these procedures so that they can carry out such work more quickly. The main objective is faster to channel resources towards the market and therefore to strengthen many small and medium-sized enterprises more quickly. This is a goal which is critical and which will directly lead to investment in new jobs. Investments, as we well know, are translated into increasing employment and creating income, two things which are of major importance for the development of our economy and for the well-being of our society. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, important trademark regulations are introduced. The delay in obtaining a trade mark caused many problems and suffering for the parties concerned. At the earliest in six months, this procedure could be completed, as the Minister for Development pointed out during the debate of this bill in the committee responsible. We are dealing with this particularly critical problem. Under this bill, the competence of trade marks is now transferred from the General Secretariat of Trade to the Industrial Property Organisation. This decision will take place at a faster rate, as this agency and as a public private entity can more flexiblely respond to the management and closure of these procedures. For those who know what the delay I have just mentioned was, as well as the suffering that this delay caused, they understand the size and the great economic importance of these arrangements for a large number of our fellow citizens who want to deal with the business in our country. Finally, I would also like to dwell on the so-called postal lockers, which are a modern method of delivering postal consignments. In the pandemic there has been a common finding and a tangible reality that there has been a huge need for transport services. This great demand has caused de facto and great delays. Today we come and give a very good solution. Whether the municipalities will be able to open tenders in order to rent space for courier companies, or those companies themselves will be able to place automatic delivery and reception machines outside their shops. This is an opportunity which, in fact, can actually give even greater impetus to e-commerce, which we understand is how much extra substantial support it can give to retailing in general and to trade widely. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, this bill gives concrete and important solutions that touch the core of economic activity and facilitate its start-up and development. For today, but also for the next day after the pandemic, the road to work and sustainable development should have such institutional reserves - guaranteeing growth, increasing employment, income and prosperity. The New Democracy Government has not stopped and will not stop either in the present or in the future to work and achieve this. The objective of the prosperity and development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u202	It's kind of stuck, Mr. President. I don't know what's going on if you hear me. I'm listening. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u203	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I should like to briefly refer to the articles relating in particular to the issues of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. In relation to Article 5, the legislative improvement that has come and which we have pointed out, I think improves the conditions. However, in the case of Article 6 and next, concerning sea recreational means, there is no fundamental change in the existing framework for the licensing of sea recreational equipment. I have been informed - because the link unfortunately did not allow me to hear exactly what the Minister said - that the Minister said a moment ago that he would make some legislative improvements acceptable. However, I insist and would like to put forward the proposals as they have been made in the debate with the maritime recreational media operators, and these have to do with substantial amendments to the Ports General Regulation of 20 2018, as we had updated it. In accordance with the opinion of operators, the right to object should therefore be granted and it should be clearly stated that in any case of rejection, it should be documented at both stages of authorisation. Also, with what is described for the citizens' obligations, an activity permit is requested and, in particular, between the approvals of the first and second phases, an investor’s legal uncertainty is created. You understand that even if there is a possibility - because the investor is expected to move on with his own responsibility in the second licensing phase - this means that he should buy the equipment, which is a very big cost and eventually go back to the approval and examination of the space and then not get the permission. So you understand how important a financial blow that would be to the investor himself. There should therefore be a clear separation of the first and second phases with the final approval of the placement of the first phase and then the adoption of the second stage and in any event there should be a procedure of objections in order to enable the citizen to know why the authorisation is not approved. With regard to the activities already authorised for leasing, we think that renewal should be made and that we should not go again to the authorisation procedure. A good thing is the legislative improvement which says that all the documents in force do not need to be re-examined. But this does not change the obligation on the substance to go to a new process of approval from the outset, which is both time-consuming and cost-effective for investors and businessmen of sea recreation. Therefore, an improvement should also be made here which provides for renewal. From that point on, I think that, as is the case with permits for sea recreational means through the granting of the use of sea hay and the possibility of a three-year licence, this should also be the case where permits are issued at sea. Therefore, these two procedures should be assimilated. Amendment No 842 and Article 6 once in the ability of small boats to carry out their professions. We have to say here that there has been no consultation with the operators such as SKAPLAS who are the manufacturers of these vessels. Therefore, it cannot be opposed to the regulation of professional rights, but there is particular concern among manufacturers who have the necessary know-how that such expertise will be imposed on them, and in fact they do not need it because they have such craftsmen in their business. At the same time, it should be ensured that small vessels do not yet have such a raisin on board. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the juncture. I have heard my dear colleagues, especially in the majority, speak with disgraceful words about the proposal that we have tabled to regulate private debt and relaunch the economy. What we must all understand is that today business and, in particular, seasonal enterprises in the tourist regions are on the verge of bankruptcy. They're in danger, believe me. Many publications have already started for sale to investors abroad. We must ensure the survival of these businesses and the working relationships of the seasonal workers. So the proposals we have tabled have that logic. We should be able to keep small, very small, small and medium-sized enterprises up and go to a rationale for subsidising insurance contributions. Since last April we have tabled this proposal. I have heard that this proposal is in force and we will have to see it again. Should we not in an overall proposal table such a proposal, subsidisation of insurance contributions? You are telling us that debt write-offs, especially of pandemics, are not possible. Is such a proposal not possible that it comes as a pan-European request from all actors in entrepreneurship? Do you think that today companies will be able to stand by if they continue to have these debt burdens? Don't you think that's necessary? You did it half the way, and you did it wrong. Your repayable advance was said from the outset not to be a repayable advance, and now you say that 50% of this will not be repayable. Should we not exempt these businesses from the burdens of this period? Should we not, then, go to an attempt to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises? Something's been happening these days. The results of support for small and medium-sized enterprises come out of the regions. I would like you to see this, Minister. Particularly in the South Aegean Region, the pandemic support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises is one of the three companies. This is a very serious issue, because many of the entrepreneurs had invested in the survival of their businesses in these programmes, and unfortunately these programmes prove to be genocide. So you should look at these programmes and possibly support funding to integrate even more companies into these ESDP programmes. Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope I didn't get over time much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u205	We're finishing up with Mr. Loyadis. The rapporteurs will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment "Simplification of the framework for economic activities" complements SYRIZA's Law 4442/2016, which is an essential Memorandum. The Minister said on 8 April in our committee: 'These have been submitted for approval to the institutions which, with their own legal advisers, have checked these articles and have arrived here today'. Remuneration and indulgence I would add. And keep going. "After we really continue a monumental obligation of the SYRIZA government, what can we now fight about things that have been solved?" He continues below "I'm not saying this to blame the services of the Ministry of Development. They're subordinated. They're very few employees. They have not advanced their digital upgrades.’ And I'm asking. Who's responsible for this? This subsidization of the public sector leads to its degradation, the dangerous and falsified investment facility, and essentially leads to the privatization of the public sector. And public administrative law is transformed into private law and then the privatisation of public affairs - needs are regulated by private law and not by public law. The irreparable economy, after almost everything has been privatised, will put aside the law and replace it with private contracts as Mr Anastassios Tachos says, professor of law. Finally the Big Brother is watching you! SYRIZA and KINAL criticise this draft law and then vote for it from the first moment. This is what we call a hunger of common sense and philosophicalism. I would stress that all the public property has come for ninety-nine years to the institutions through TIAD from all three Memorandum governments. And because here you may say that it's all the fault of Varoufakis, we always say, bring the file of bankruptcy to the parliament. I do not need to go into details of the draft law, nor do I need to go into detail the intermittently contradictory views of operators such as the President of the EBEA, the Legal Adviser of the Panhellenic Automotive Repairer Association, the Mayor of the Panhellenic Federation of Fuel Traders, the Director General of the OBI, the President of the Ministry of Trade, the President of the Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Development, the President of the Panhellenic Association of Installed Enterprises and others. The philosophy of this draft law is to move from the ex ante control of the business activity to its first freedom of exercise and then to its ex post audit. But better heals it. That is how it has to function, to do a well-organised state with a clear distinction of powers as Mera25 points out. We know that after 2010 everything goes from evil to worse. When private debt to taxi, insurance funds, banks are EUR 250 billion and the country's total GDP is EUR 165 billion, what are you waiting for? What do you expect? What development should there be when, on the one hand, you allow the malls, the stores, and on the other, you have closed down the small shops? As for stores and supermarkets, it should also apply to small shops. How did the Greek state reward the businesses and workers who in the last ten years have been destroying the memoranda and increasing unemployment have supported the Greek economy and society? With the overtaxation it imposed on them, with the 100% advance tax payment, with the highest VAT in Europe, at a high interest rate, when zero and negative in the European Union respectively. That's their reward. How do you reward the businesses and workers and those of tourism that last year worked at risk to the health of their workers and to the huge risk of those who did not open up at all? And these businesses that don't have a turnover greater than 30%, how do you reward them? You're actually pushing them not to open this year. In conclusion, as an MEP from Heraklion, I would like to denounce and condemn the unheard, provocative and insulting action attempted by the European Union of Paratroopers next May, eighty years after the Battle of Crete, to allegedly honour the bravery of German paratroopers, this chosen group, as they announced, which, however, was degraded and never used again by the Third Reich. Of course, that was not the juncture at all. Finally, I would like to condemn in the most emphatic way any actions to appease and insult both the memory and the burial monument of our great national benefactor and leader of the Cretan revolution Antonio Papadakis. The state must respond to its obligation and stand up to the circumstances, because this monument must only honour the memory of this benefactor and must not refer to anyone else, much more to a convicted dosing family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. We will now continue with the rapporteurs. Mr Katsotis has the floor, then Mr. Katrinis, Mr. Sarakiotis, and we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as this debate reveals, the Memorandum Laws will come and will be supplemented or amended, depending on the requirements of the monopolistic and business groups, the prerequisites for evaluations, such as the law of SYRIZA, which is now supplemented by the New Democracy, by expanding the activities that are even in areas of crisis, such as daily care centres for the elderly and the WIPOs, such as vocational training of seafarers, drivers of dangerous goods, etc. Of course, there are few drownings in our country. And the responsibilities are huge and time-consuming for all the governments of capital. You are wrathful, Minister, with the delay of consensus, with the consent of 55% of the owners of the oenophitas, and you are abolishing it by facilitating industrialists who perish and are responsible for environmental crimes in the region. What are you doing? You create a closed park deporting the small owners of the land. On the other hand, you are obviously in favour of increasing the number of members of a trade union organization which decides on a strike, '50+1', an electronic vote, and so on, where employers will intervene, as will any other mechanism. Here you are pursuing the difficulties. You're wondering: But is it possible you can disagree with simplifying the operation of a business? On the other hand, you support the banning conditions for the establishment and operation of union workers' organizations. On the one hand you stop all controls, abolish fines on businesses and, on the other, criminalise all the trade unions' activities, blackmail with super-famous fines, as you leak, for employers to participate in an illegal strike, which, of course, is 95% illegal with the legislative framework in which the courts are judging. It is not enough, along with incentives, tax exemptions, financing, but you accompany the demands of the employers with the abolition of flagships, such as the eighth, the fixed daily time. You've been returning young people and young people in particular, our children. Young people and young people with flexible forms of employment, poor pay, who have to accept the worsening of their lives than their parents and grandparents. This attack, these anti-popular anti-popular abortions, demands of business groups must find against all the workers of the whole family, because family and social life are getting worse. It'll get worse than the already ugly situation that every people's family lives. The commemoration of the Day was decided by the trade unions on May 6th, but the government, in consultation with the majority of GFCM, transferred it for May 4th to continue Easter holidays. That is where the people, the working class, the business groups and the government need to give a mass universal response. It must give an answer to the "Minister of Special Missions", which has provided exams with PPC, "Larco", earlier with the "Olympic" and now with the ten hours of work. The story will write him in black letters, like whoever votes ten hours of work. The Prime Minister in his statements on labour, the bill of employment - abortion, among other things, provoking anger said that he is implementing a timely demand of the JRC and the Left by extending the staff allowance and the workers, while the New Democracy, the PASOK and SYRIZA effectively abolished the allowances, since the workers' trial period for two months made it a year and then they are made redundant not to cost in the future for compensation and hire others in an empty space. On Amendment No 841/57 we are voting against. Article 2 is not only that it redefined the framework for the evaluation of research centres and their institutes, describing in essence that the process will be used to promote further adaptation to the capital strategy to serve the needs of their competitiveness and power, but also not even to mention the process as a prerequisite for their funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u210	I'm not done, Mr. President. I refer to the amendments that have been tabled so far. With regard to topology 842/58, I would say that we are in Article 1 because it perpetuates the status of immunity as the processing activities are currently working, but also because of a change of use if they are removed, the criterion will again be profit-making with an intensity of exploitation and not respect for the environmental conditions of operation. In Article 5 for specifications for the operation of escape rooms. We believe that the opinion of the Committee on the Protection of minors should be mandatory, not to go beyond this obligation with an opinion after 30 days. It is about children and minors, and I do not think that this regulation should continue. Article 8 provides for the declared aid by the NSRP to focus professionals as duty-free, irresponsible and irresponsible. We agree, but we would like to note that the government is responsible for the inadequate measures it has taken on the situation of concentrators with the long-term lockdown.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Colleague, you will vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u212	I shall conclude, Mr President, just a minute. We shall vote 'at present' in the overall amendment because we do not want this regulation to be rejected. On Amendment No 849/59 we are voting 'at present' because we believe that AMKA should not only concern vaccinations and self test, because overall the health of our people must be protected for the whole population. We are voting against Amendment No 848/61 because it strengthens transport companies, airlines, shipowners and so on. Article 4, if it were separate, we could vote on it. We are also voting in favour of 849/63. It has arrangements at the expense of forests and in favour of strengthening and continuing business activity in forests. In Amendment No 848/62 we are voting against, because the amendment itself deals with an unscientific separation of the field of food safety from that of protection of public health, and I think that is a very dangerous whole for workers and their safety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u214	At the end of an interesting debate I think we have made it clear that in principle we are obviously in agreement with any attempt to simplify the procedures for entry into work. Moreover, it was PASOK that, with Law 3982/2011, introduced the notification procedure for the first time instead of an approval, as a precondition for the business start-up of any activity. Of course I have to stress that in the first 13 articles we have not seen any changes in substance, despite the fact that there are objections from us and from Article 9, concerning car workshops, which we consider to be too many dangers on the basis of notification rather than of approval, because it has been made clear that unreasonable workshops are operating to a large extent, as is the case with the article on lubricants and we have specific reactions. In Rule 32, for the Oinophitas, I think the government and the Ministry are in a hurry to abolish the necessary consensus of 55%. We do not think that the necessary consultation has been carried out, and it is something that opens the aisle of Halos and I think that there will be reactions and reactions, but I am afraid - I am afraid - it will also have legal consequences and delays further than those that the Ministry is in theory trying to solve. In Article 57 we consider it unacceptable that you introduced the possibility, while there was not in the original draft of a law, because you were asked to be heard by the BSE agency, to change prices during the day, supposedly now for information and averages. But we understand who is serving. On the subject of the OBI, Minister, I think that the transfer of public revenue is over-zealous, and you yourself know that this agency has a reserve that is currently in place and does not have the opportunity for the country to make public revenues available to an agency to make a further reserve. You know that better than we do. You say that there are no 'leaf trees'. We agree. As far as the amendments are concerned, we agree with 841 on the evaluation of research centres. Of course, for the DIAMEA, Minister, Article 3 remains your commitment - your promise here in July 2020 that in one year's time the controls will have doubled. I'm waiting in July 2021 and you tell me that the pandemic didn't happen. That's where you said it. We're waiting. You're the one who sets the targets. In Amendment No 842, we disagree with Articles 9 and 10. As far as Article 10 is concerned, because there has been a debate, we do not know on which criteria they will be classified in the relevant register and will be defined as appropriate for companies, if they are the big audit or simple vows, if they are aware of development law. Also where are they controlled from? By ELETE, which also controlled FOLLI FOLLIE? Don't tell me that because I think we're in agreement. Today we have the following contradiction: the investor should be able to choose his private auditor on the one hand, but if he is an employee of the Ministry he should be paid. That is not the case, Minister. And I stress that, in order to speed up and resolve the problems, the Minister, who said from the Step forward that, over a year and a half, he had delivered nineteen decisions from the thirty-nine, considers it a solution to another decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u215	You said so. You said that "in a year and a half I have issued nineteen ministerial decisions from the thirty-nine predicted" and for the speeding up of the control procedure you would like to take a decision again, and you yourself admit that all this means a delay. 843, we agree. At 847, we agree, as in Amendments 848, 849, 851, 840. Of course, with 884 extending to the AIA of Hearts, but not with 844 which is an extension of a parliamentary amendment which has also been accepted and which is so sketchy. I hope that the good intentions of simplifying procedures do not drown in secondary legislation, which, in every bill of law, is multiplying, putting in place, delaying and effectively cancelling what the legislator wants to do. And we say this really well because we and the large majority of the articles are voting in favour. But we express our reservations and our fear that there will be a very long delay beyond September, which you committed before the National Representation to be completed. So this law will be long before it is implemented and a blank letter remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA for four minutes, immediately after the Minister has completed the procedure. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot say in any event that during the sitting I was not extremely happy, as I heard the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, praising the legislative framework of SYRIZA, No 4442/2016, but too many Members of the New Republic praising it. They have said that the government's programme is developing in this way. "The bill will bring investment", "the state has reacted", "contributes to attracting investment", are few of these excellent words that have been heard about a truly shallow legislative framework that had come in 2016. From there, hearing the Minister speak of investment, growth, etc., I imagine that he remembers that growth was taken from SYRIZA's governance to 2.8% in the second quarter of 2019 and within six months, in the fourth quarter he dropped to 1%. From there on, he also mentioned some investments that have been made. And I wonder, this bill has an article, Article 32, which refers to an emblematic project, an investment that began on the governance of SYRIZA. Why didn't you come to list all the actions and actions you've done for the Oinofyta business park and you're referring to others? Because it has obviously been shown that for two years on this major issue you have done absolutely nothing. You made a commitment to proceed to Kalochori as well. You have done nothing about the Oinophilus for two years, all deadlines will be exceeded and you will also make a new commitment on another occasion. From there on, I cannot mention the fact that you have also praised the integrated IT system for carrying out activities and controls known as the OPS - AIA, which was launched on previous governance. For two years, and you have done nothing on that. But you praise it and you do well. I would also like to refer to the amendments. It is an indication of the poor legacy of what the amendment under number 841 contains for the evaluation of research centres and foundations. They were already running in 2019. With the paradox now being evaluated every three years, the institutes and every five years the centres will always be in a very heavy process of evaluation. There is no design, there is no reasoning behind this provision, and it is indicative that the research centres are already responding. As regards Amendment 843, I asked you again whether the participants in medicine, who will be involved in the process of carrying out diagnostic checks on COVID -19, will receive a fee or work on a voluntary basis. You report them as employees. Make that clear, too. I cannot comment on Rule 57. During the debate I had asked several questions about the fact that you are giving the Secretary-General the opportunity to decide without criteria whether to impose a fine of between EUR 1 000 and 100,000 on large companies with a turnover of more than EUR 90 million on the supermarkets and now you are going to make the provision worse by adding that after sending the information to the chain shops the prices can be changed. So they'll get them up, they'll be able to change them. No reasoning. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that they were asked to listen to the BSE issue and you implemented it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will have a short break of ten minutes so that the services of this House can complete certain procedures relating to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't think I need to get far now. In general, the climate at committee meetings and in plenary was generally constructive. We do not have to say the same, only two - three observations and we close. Firstly, I shall refer to the honourable Member, Mr Katrin. Mr. Catarini, I've told you not to provoke me because I'm curious. So you said that you were waiting in June for it to prove that from June to June we have doubled checks with the EMEA. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u221	July to July.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u222	July to July, okay. I bring you, then, April 2019 with March 2020 and April 2020 with March 2021, because I still don't have the new data. The audits of sixteen thousand eighty-eight in April 2019 to March 2020 became forty-eighteen hundred nineteen, a percentage change of 208% - I hold an eight ‘kawa’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u223	You're the only one who puts the D.I.E.L.D. on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u224	That's just the DEME thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u225	The other one that was embedded...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u226	I'm filing the data on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the reform of the WEU - and the whole market knows - has gone very well. That is why you will see that in all press releases anymore of the trade associations the complaints about the trademark are considerably reduced in their complaints. Because now they know that if they get a phone, they're all there in a few minutes. The political direction is very strong on this issue, and I must tell you that if we did not have COVID -19, we would also have launched a few projects. We're going with Panagiotis maybe - and with you - to some of the things we've made. You know, someone wants to open up, and we were all talking about the virus getting started, but it's not going through. It'll pass any minute. So you should know that the reform of the EMEA has worked very well. With regard to the reform of the law "I invest in Greece" which Mr Papathanassis spoke about, and which was also a criticism from Mr. Sarakiotis, you know the politics I always saw as applied art. It is a good thing that politics and ideological disagreement - very nice - and to go out and talk and fight. That's all I like, I'm not saying I don't like it. But when you finally rule where you're judged? From whether you solve people's problems. That's the criterion. Everything else is 'we had to say'. You have nothing but to ask your friends if, for example, with the involvement of private audit companies in the development law, many companies have been able to solve their problems. I assure you that too many companies have already completed their investment and have taken their money through this road. Now we're going to solve the service part, because there, unfortunately, has still not developed the same speed. We want that channel to exist. From the beginning we wanted to. Also, you can see the improvement of the business climate indicator. Even within the COVID - 19 was held. And if you read yesterday's 'CITI' exhibition - I have taken it up to social media - it is excellent for the forecast for Greece of 2021. Since September 2021, which they estimate the pandemic will be over worldwide, they are expecting a spectacular shift in investment - they are writing it. They speak of investment boom, precisely because they see that the reform effort has continued and what brings them as a reflection those who invest in Greece are that they do manage and understand and that things are running. You can't see this. You can see them. But ELSTAT read, the analysis of the results of the Greek economy in 2020, you will see that the piece that says it went better than all the investments were expected. You may call me "Minister of Investment" and a number of such "without competences", which I hear and laugh at, because I consider them to be insignificant parapolitical nonsense. But these are all measurable. The investments I mentioned before Mr Tsakalotos one - one - are not a theory. He's already bought land. Some fellow citizens who had land have already collected the millions of the investment they have started. Even to your favorite and favorite Greek, who constantly accepts irony, we will see you this summer that we will visit together. And that is where Mr Katrinis will tell me 'yes, but we should have gone from last summer', I will take it. We're going together this summer and we're going to admire it. So don't worry. I do not understand, do you not vote for the OBI reform on the grounds that public revenue should not go to the OBI? To understand the argument, what you're saying. What's the revenue of the Trademarks Service? The paradox that the man who wants to get the signal pays. The paradox is paid for a reward service. He's paid, because you're doing the job of enforcing the badge. If we transfer responsibility to the OBI without the paradox, our next decision will be to say that we give the signals for free, without any paradox. Because the Ministry of Development's Trademark Service cannot collect the compensation service and the OBI can do the job. I guess you understand that. The paradox must be rewarding. So whether or not we make the marks for free, a decision, or we will say 'the badge of the mark is made by the OBI'. There's no other way. So, he can't get the signals to the OBI without the paradox. I'll say it again, Mr. Catherine. You've also made an organization commander and a successful man. So if we can make it somewhere and give it to OkANA - to get a body you know - does that mean that because they took the money to OkANA, he lost the money to the Greek state? So if I give OkANA money and because I've given the money to OkANA, can I cut him 2.5 million from the OkANA budget that the Ministry of Health will give him, is he going to say that because they went to OkANA, he's losing the Greek state? Come on, Jesus Christ! I told you a hundred times. Every year, when the Greek state takes out its cash reserves, and on the basis of them its deficit is measured, the markets are counting, on the basis of them, what our state is is, and the general government's assets are summed up. So it's the money that the OBI has. What's your point? That in order for the OBI to get his money, he needs a decision of the Minister of Finance? He doesn't have to ask OBI. He does not need to ask the President-in-Office of the OBI State or the State-appointed OBI Board of Directors. Even that doesn't have to do, to say you might have an administrative board that's going to revolution. The OBI doesn't have to do that either. As a general government body, the Finance Minister says "this money will go there". Signature. That's it. Now we seriously consider this not to be the money of the Greek state and that is why you will not vote for the reform? I want you to believe me. You don't need your vote to pass. It'll pass. But it's not that opposition and it doesn't fit you personally, Mr. Katrin, but also in KINAL. I told you I respect KINAL. KINAL - PASOK, that is, I prefer its traditional terminology - has paid political costs for these things. You can't seriously tell me that you're not voting because the money is not written as revenue of the Ministry of Development but is written as revenue of the OBI. It's an argument similar to Critona Arseni. There, let's do it, it's okay. But not Michael Katrin. Excuse me! I really don't say it ironically. You can't seriously say that. The revenues of the OBI are revenues of the Greek State and the OBI reserve is available to the Greek State. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u227	Second one, yes. First one, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u228	In any case, I think you should vote. Now, do what you want. As to the article on Oinofytas, let us not say more. We've exhausted it. What is the objection in the end? Give more time, see if they can find it. That was the argument that was actually heard. I want you to believe me. If I thought there was one in a million chance they'd find them without the law, I wouldn't vote for him. That is why I told you many times that it took me about six months to decide to take the order. Because of my right-wing ideology - and that is my great ideological disagreement with Mr Katsotis - I believe in ownership. The property for me is a sacred thing. Because I believe in property, I don't want unmarried State interventions on the property of the other. It bothers me ideologically, and that's why I didn't bring it right away. I said whether they are wrong, and now that they are listening to'regional', 'association', 'organisation' and 'all asking for an amendment', and 'I go to Georgia' and 'Georgiadis said I will vote for it if they find no other solution', etc., if this pressure leads them to reach agreement. No one's agreed with anyone. Now that they understand that we are voting for the law, they are now sworn to agree. I do not believe them is the answer, which is why I shall legislate. I'm closing in on a bill. It has a broad consensus, there is no question of the substance of the bill, and I thank all my fellow Members for that. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General for this, Mr Giannis Kyriou, but also the previous Secretary-General of Industry, Mr Pelopida Kalliris, who worked enough to get to this bill today, as well as all the Secretary-General of the relevant ministries and all the partners, as I told you from the outset that this was a bill that had a lot of work behind it. In the next few days, we will have good things in public consultation and the next part of the bill, and after Easter the corresponding process for the next piece was left on the simplification issues of the Ministry of Health, some of the other of the Ministry of Shipping, some of the other of the Ministry of Transport, etc. This will also close our Memorandum of Understanding from the time of the SYRIZA Memorandum and we will also be consistent with our international obligation. But I want to be honest, I wouldn't need any obligation to do it. I think it is very right because this bill makes the lives of many people easier. At some point beyond our party confrontations and interests, we also need to think about these simple people, and if we can, in trying to create any trade with the public, make their lives a little easier. If every time, with every bill we make life a little easier, at some point we may even stop hearing that anyone who gets involved with the Greek state is afflicted and does not find their point. We dream of a Greek state where the citizen will soon find his right, it will not be troubled, it will all be done electronically, with transparency and with as little bureaucracy as possible. Any bureaucracy that can be abolished will be abolished. Every bureaucratic stage that is luxury and can be removed, removed. And I'm closing up with one thing, so I don't forget. Perhaps my argument was unconscious, Mr. Katrin. You can ask your PASOK colleagues who were Ministers. The fact that we've published in a year and a half the nineteen C.A. I said before, I didn't say it was bad. It's very good. Usually, as you certainly know, in the Greek state, most of the laws that have been passed have left all secondary legislation pending for many years. We're not just publishing them, but we've also put an end date in September 2021. The pace will accelerate, because as long as we publish, they all work. It's just, for some it's easier for the ministries to agree on, for some it's harder. That's the difference of rhythm. However, as far as we are approaching the maturation of the relevant law, all secondary legislation will be adopted. Besides, you may not know, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has also created a very specialised electronic system for monitoring secondary legislation, with extremely tight timetables, where it is checked whether the ministries have completed their obligations in this area. Ministries who are late to sign the agreement automatically and control the Prime Minister's office. I think it is a very excellent system and good for the Prime Minister, because that is why he has also helped to unleash a system in which there has been a huge problem over time with the Greek state. It is important that you notice it, but it was not very brave that you said: "You are not at all, you have moved to 40%". Thank you very much. Be well. Thank you for the constructive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is hereby concluded: 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of Ministries of Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks and other provisions for strengthening development'. We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-one articles, ten amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u230	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u231	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u232	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks responsibilities and other provisions for strengthening development’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u234	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-15-S1-commons.u235	With the consent of the House at 20.38 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 16 April 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
