ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-10-2021, the Minutes of Thursday 21 October 2021 were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund on New Arrangements to Borrow - NAB.']] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on today's topical and urgent debate, let me make the following announcements: First of all, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday, 25 October 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 78-14-10-2021 by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Immediately the need for anti-military works to be carried out by Kifissos and Ilissos rivers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 90/18-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, entitled "To include all the settlements and earthquakes affected by the earthquakes on the platform of arogi.gov.gr - Payments of advances". 3. The Question No 70/12-10-2021 by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Marinos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The disastrous consequences of the flood in northern Evia and the great dangers faced by the people of the region." 4. The question by No 71/12-10-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary Seres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Residences and business of "real-runners" are being auctioned, despite the alleged "state guarantee" and despite the existence of "Support Fund" (v.128/1975) from which they should be supported." 5. The Question under number 80/15-10-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Exclusion of Philozootics from trials of crimes against animals". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 86-18-10-2021 by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Additional compensation to the Commander of the Civil Aviation Authority.” 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Animosism and immunization of the schools, restoration of damage and construction of new safe schools in Crete". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water and sewerage". 4. Under number 89/18-10-2021, a topical question by MP 2 West Attica of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Catholic Resentment of the Public Defence Industry through the vertical fall in production of all the factories of the NSA and the mass redundancies of the modern factories of Egypt". 5. The Question No 83/18-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on "Direct measures to support the affected and compensation 100% of the earthquake in Crete". 6. The Question No 84/18-10-2021 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on "The redundancy of thirty-six workers in the Greek Arms Industry (EBO) in Agios". Secondly, I would like to inform you that the honourable Member, Mr Harris Theocharis, is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 25 October 2021 to 28 October 2021. The same applies to Mr. Ioannis Vroutsi, who will visit Cyprus on 24 October 2021. Also, the MP, Christos Dermenzopoulou, seeks permission from a short-day absence from 23 October 2021 to 24 October. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Finally, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organization and operation of rural trade, arrangements for the pursuit of leisure activities and for the simplification of activities in education, improvements to the chamber legislation and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the topical and urgent questions that are scheduled for today. In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that the topical questions under No 74/13-10-21, 69/11-10-2021, 76/14-10-2021, 79/14-10-2021 and 72/13-10-2021 will be discussed today. We will begin with the first with number 76/14-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Chios - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The need for studies and work to restore Byzantine and post-Byzantine monuments of Chios". Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u4	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u5	Minister, first of all, as a Member of Parliament, I would like to express my pleasure at seeing you in a natural presence through parliamentary control. I hope we will soon have a chance to meet in private to transfer your portfolios to you. My question is about the situation in which many Byzantine and post-Byzantine monuments of our island, Chios. First of all, I refer to the historic monastery of the New Monastery. You know that it is preached as a monument of global cultural heritage by UNESCO. In this monastery, in this complex, in addition to the other loose ends that exist, is the restoration of the cells of the southern side of the monastery. The Monastery of Mundon is a great monastery, the second in importance after the New Monastery, with a possible chronology of the founding of the 15th century, with a great mural of the Catholic, with excellent originality in its theme and with the condition of all the settlements of the Monastery in a ruinous state. It is the Byzantine temple of Agios Ioannis Argentine, with an excellent wooden icon, which unfortunately the wooden columns that have been placed to support the wall of the temple have almost collapsed and the archipelagos are likewise devastated. There is the Monastery of the Small Taxiarch, too, of the 15th century at Mesta with an excellent wooden icon, unfortunately damaged, while the masonry inside of the Catholic is in an unacceptable state. There's damage and mold, unfortunately, on the walls inside. The series will be endless to mention all the monuments that are in a very serious state at the moment in Chios. In any case, however, reference must be made to the church of Saint George in Presidia, which, as you know, has collapsed into one part of it and needs immediate intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport by Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u7	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Good morning, Your Honor. Thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to present the care of our Ministry of Culture for the cultural stock of Chios. First, I would like to start by informing you that in July 2019 they had joined the NSRF 2014-2020 five restoration projects of Byzantine and post-Byzantine monuments in Chios, a total budget of EUR 3,725 000. As far as studies are concerned, Chios’s Embassy had only mature studies for a monument, for the Temple of the Brigadier of Mestas, which were prepared by a private donor. Also, for the Church of Saint Willelo in St. Milk, the Escape had only a study of cadastral restoration. That was the picture. The necessary maintenance study of the decorative decoration of St.Wallery, so that the project is considered mature and can be integrated, prepared and approved in 2020. Apart from this, today the Ephesia goes on to the following studies: The whole of the studies - architecture, static and maintenance of the painting decoration of Agios Georgios at the Presidiums of Iron, you have just mentioned - has been completed. Within the next few weeks, studies shall be introduced for the statutory opinion of the Central Archaeological Council. So, in the two years 2020-2021, we fully matured this project. Secondly, all the studies - architecture, static and maintenance of the iconographic decoration of the Church of Agios Ioannis Argentis in the settlement of the Old Cataracts, a significant monument in very bad condition - have also been completed. Within the next few weeks they are also introduced into the Central Archaeological Council. For the Monastery of Mundos, an important monastic complex without a fraternity, has also been launched here to finance the restoration studies from the Region's Public Investment Program, in order to mature and allow its integration into the next Programming Period 2021-2027. Also, a study is being prepared by the Egos to restore the defense tower and the fortified pavilion of the New Monastery, which is expected to be completed in 2022. The architectural study is also under way with sponsorship and care of Metropolis for the northern wing of the Monastery of Agios Minas in Neochori. The wing is younger, it is not preached, so it does not fall under the provisions of Law 3028. Nevertheless, the Egos are willing to assist Metropolis with a great deal of joy, given the importance of the Monastery for the events of the 1822 Slaughter. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] Give me a second and a half more, Mr President. Based on the above, we have proposed to join the Recovery Fund - and it is a matter of time for them to join - the project 'Showing the manifestations of the monumental painting in Chios', which includes the works at the Temples of the Brigadier of the Messengers, St. Willis and Agios Georgios in Prasia, a total budget of EUR 1650,000. The proposed project includes work on fixing and restoring the temples, maintenance of their decorations and wood carves, as well as the creation of digital browsing applications and educational actions. As you can see, the project includes the Brigad of the Messians, which you refer to in your question, so the carved icon that you say is in poor condition, although since 2018 that study was mature, as it was paid by a private person, to have joined, had not been made. Also, with regard to the work of restoring the defence tower and fortified environment in the New Monastery, the New Monastery is an apparently UNESCO monument whose restoration is constantly funded in all financial periods. We are now putting this into the Recovery Fund with a budget of EUR 700,000. For the next programme period of the NSRF 2021-2027, we propose the restoration work of the Church of Saint John of Argentine in Cataracts with a budget of 450,000 euros, the restoration work of the Genuine secular building and the completion of the development of a fortification project of the Genuatile domination very important on the island, a budget of 2,900,000 euros. In your question you refer to the monastery of Rojuniotissa and the Monastery of Osia Matrona. Both important post-Byzantine monuments have been subjected to huge further interventions, so that they are not preached and not included in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Culture. With this very brief presentation, I think I've answered you on the substance that since July 2019 the Ministry of Culture has developed important projects that have already been put into financial programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Here, Mr Michaelides, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, you have, in principle, provided evidence of the projects concerned, although I think one could justify this, since the form and text of the subject obviously needs a serious scientific study - we must point out the unacceptable delay, which is happening and which we have identified in most of these projects, particularly in the study section, as well as in that part concerning the approval of the studies. I would like to point out to you, as you mentioned in the study prepared for the Monastery of the "small" Taxiarch, that this study - which they made known at the beginning of my parliamentary term, about 2015-2016, if I remember correctly - was "carried" to the Ministry for a very long period of time and was sought by painful and time-consuming procedures, anyway. As far as I know, this study has already been adopted and, as you have said, further implementation of the project is also taking place. Another important point, which I would also like to highlight is the submissiveness of the Archaeological Service in Chios. I would like to say to you that very important efforts are being made by this agency and, admittedly, it is doing a real, painful job, with a great deal of supply from all the officials and the administration of the service. But, as you know, basic skills are lacking in both technical staff and scientific staff. As far as I know, there is, for example, no architect in this service, whose contribution I think I do not have to make to you. We therefore also look forward to a substantial contribution to the level of staffing of this service, which deals with a very large subject. There are now serious projects in progress, such as the restoration, for example, of the Castle walls that are a very large project, which obviously requires scientific executives, which will supervise the projects, such as the ones that you have told us, to some extent, are on the way. I would therefore like to point out that, for some of these projects, the procedures must be speeded up, especially for those which are currently in collapse, such as the Saint George Temple in Prasios, which you understand is also seriously damaged every day. There are, of course, other projects and I think that we need to prioritise those which are currently in an extremely serious situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. Here, Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to agree with you that the study on the "Master of Messors" was indeed finalised in 2015 and after an effort that took place, it was approved in 2018. In May and June 2019 - before the elections - the then leadership of the Ministry of Culture proposed and incorporated some monuments into the Northern Aegean Regional Programme, but not the "Mesos Brigade". That is my question too, because such an important monument was not a priority. From that point on, we had no possibility of further membership. That is why, now that we have the possibility, we put the three monuments into the Recovery Fund, which we fully agree is a priority. As I said before, in the five-year period 2015-2019 the taxiarch had only one mature study. In two and a half years we matured at least five studies. It's what I mentioned. These projects will be integrated and their integration is already assured. What I would like to say to you - it is happening throughout Greece - is that in the five years 2015-2019 the lowest rates of absorption of the NRP in cultural projects have been noted. It was less than 10%. Just to reverse this picture, I repeat that we have started a struggle with cooperation between our services and local and regional government throughout Greece, so that we can mature as many projects as possible, so that we can integrate them into the programmes that are now under way by the Recovery Fund and the next NSRF. I have to tell you that, in addition to the Byzantine monuments in Chios, we are already going ahead and very soon, and will be approved in the first few months of 2022, all the studies for upgrading and extending the Archaeological Museum of Chios on the Michalon Street. The financing of the project is already guaranteed by the Recovery Fund and is a budget of approximately 10 million. To sum up, the total budget of the projects of the projects that were integrated into the NSRP for the five years 2014-2020, as I said, was 3,725 000. So far, the budget for works on Chios monuments and the next NSRF is EUR 5.250 000 and will obviously be increased and increased, as we mature studies of new projects, because the monuments do need it. Moreover, it is the 10 million for the Archaeological Museum. So, today we are talking about providing 15 million more resources. Responsibility constantly matures studies. This is the direction that we have given it in order to integrate as many projects as possible into the financial programmes. There are, of course, the phenomena of hypotension, which you have pointed out. I have to say that those posts are covered by fixed-term contracts. So there is such a service. It is not the permanent nor the right one, but I must tell you that through mobility, such staff subsidies can be made, but there is no interest in Chios. As far as engineers are concerned, we have already asked for the recruitment of architects, civil engineers, electricians and engineers throughout the territory and with the Ministry of Interior, the respective competition is being launched. It's a total of course, it's all about the whole territory. What I want to tell you is that the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture today stands abundant in all the efforts of the services not only in Chios, but throughout Greece, to mature projects and to join the next programming period as much as possible. This is our direction, because we know very well that, apart from the protection, promotion and promotion of the cultural stock of our country, which is our job, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to contribute decisively - there is a large number of statistics on this - to create jobs, so to increase employment and, in fact, to strengthen local economies and that is of great interest to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following topical and urgent questions will not be discussed in consultation: The second question, under number 73/13-10-2021, of a second question by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece, George Marino, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "No involvement of Greece in the imperialist designs, the closure of US bases, the non-shipment of Greek armed forces in Sahel, Africa, return of the Patriot platoon from Saudi Arabia and all the military departments by imperialist missions abroad." The fifth under number 77/14-10-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papanastasis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Let the prosecution be stopped against journalist Nikos Boyopoulos". The first under number 75/14-10-2021 topical question for the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Proclamation as a preserved monument of the PPC plant in Keratsini". The third under number 81/15-10-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archeological sites in western Athens and its history abandoned by the state". The seventh question, number 87/18-10-2021, is a second question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Political Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, a crime against the environment and biodiversity has been committed". The eighth Question No 88-18-10-2021, by Mr Socrates Famelou, President of the European Parliament, on the subject: “The problem of fire protection in Sheikh - You are raised by the controversies of unauthorized and responsible.” The second question under number 74/13-10-2021 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: "The exodus of the implementation of approved investments is seen by small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers from the refusal to borrow banks and the significant increase in the cost of investment from the serious appreciations of equipment and raw materials". Mr. Constantinople, good morning, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm going to go into this because, I think, you know that. In particular, I think we need to respond to this issue, which is about investment, but not a big investment, it has to do with people who live in the region, keep the region alive, and because they have a lot of problems with schools, all of this is getting a very big deal into the way the banks operate today. I'll tell you in particular, so we won't get away. In a mountainous area of Arcadia, a young man who lives there with his family, with his children, wants to build a cheese house. He filed his file - I will file him in the Minutes - and gets a grant for the whole 100%, 110,182,52 euros. Man goes to give these 110,000 euros that the state gives him to banks so that it can function. The banks ask him for guarantees, VAT 25 000, i.e. this man has to put 50 000 euros in addition, while he has signed a contractor and all the undertakings that he can carry out the project. That's not how it works. Something has to be done. And since you understand - I saw that you also wrote it on Twitter - that, because of the crisis, the materials have been taken up, it means that this man - while he has been approved - could develop the region, give life to the region, unfortunately because the banks do not accept this, and while there are financial tools from the Ministry of Development, which guarantees about 80% of this, banks do not enter that logic. In the end, big customers really can't help themselves, but small investors can't. So if we do not seriously intervene, for this Dimitris from the region of Kontovazana, who wants to make a nice cheese house, give life to his area and whose children go to school and keep up the area, we will also drive out a family, we will not be able to produce quality products, and in the end, we will again end up with the big chains that they need, but we also need the primary sector that is combined with production and that exists, that it can function and build its own product. Minister, I think that you should answer and answer all of us together. It's about everyone and everyone separately, giving this young man a chance to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantinople. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, thank you very much for the question. Before I reply to you, I must say that this is the first time that I come to the House after yesterday's announcement of the agreement at Elefsina Shipyards, to say a few words about this so that this House can be informed. Yesterday we reached a historic agreement, since the largest shipbuilding group in Europe, the FINCANTIERI, the fourth largest shipbuilding group in the world, with tens of thousands of employees and more than EUR 6 billion annual turnover, decided to co-operate with the company 'ONEX' and together to table a proposal for resolution to the court for Elefsina Shipyards, in accordance with our Banking Law and Article 106. The aim is that by the end of December, the court should have requested the court to ensure that, in the spring of 2022, the project was approved by Greek justice to proceed with its implementation by paying workers and serious investments in the shipyards to enable them to be quickly operational and productive. Yesterday's news, which has caused very great joy to the workers, but also to all those involved with shipping in Greece, is the completion of a responsibility which we took on at the Ministry of Development and Investment at the beginning of our term of office. When we came to our office with Nikos Papathanase, we had three shipyards closed for decades, Syros, Skaramaga and Elefsina, and with yesterday's agreement, a great effort is complete and when the time comes to leave and everything will have gone well, we will have three shipyards that will work. This is the Greece that we dream of, Greece of jobs, Greece of investment, Greece of production, Greece of success. So I want, Mr President, because I know you understand from this, to share with you this really great success and the great news that such a group decides to invest in Greece. For its own part, the news that this group decides to invest in Greece is a very large vote of confidence in the Greek economy, in Greek workers and in the Greek people. I am going to your timely question, which actually has two legs. One part is the problem itself, the core of the problem of how the bank treats small customers. We had yesterday in Parliament's Committee on Economic Affairs with Mr Stakoura, the Greek Development Bank, banks, institutions, chambers, a debate that lasted too many hours. I must tell you that at the end of this debate, the President of the GCSE, Mr Kavvathas, set the goal national to achieve, in one year, one of the forty thousand businesses currently considered to be capable of borrowing to a hundred thousand. I would remind you that the total business in Greece is eight hundred thirty thousand. So when the president of GATT himself acknowledges that it is a great success if we manage to get to a hundred thousand of the eight hundred thirty thousand, you understand what the real situation is and that has many interpretations. However, I would like to say to the friend you mentioned that when you actually have the approval of the development law to implement a project and it is unjustified not to grant the loan - because this is not a loan, it is a discount for real expenditure that you will receive from the State anyway - all that the bank could possibly do would only be a partial payment of the loan in the course of the project so that it would be sure that it would receive the money, that it would not lose it. You have my word that this is why I will be holding a special meeting with the banks, because maybe it would be worth it in some way to explain this point of view. Be careful: I say a meeting and explain to them why an institutional way by law is to impose it on them, as you know, there is no. What can we do in the law, however, and what have we already done? We have already introduced an increase with the completion of the investment project of the increased cost in the category of expenditure on machinery from 10% to 25%, precisely because we see that there is an increase mainly in machinery, but also in raw materials, what do we say? In the whole amount the amount they get is the same, but for what you justified on equipment or what you justified on materials, instead of the committee blocking you and saying to you "but your plan said so much about the equipment, why is it 10% more?", that's acceptable. I do not hide from you that in the proposed draft law on strategic investment we also propose an article in which we further increase this in order to make it easier for businesses now making their investment not to block the investment from - I wish to wish and appreciate - a shorter increase in all these prices so that prices do not have to be expected to return to the earliest level so that they can again match their previous investment plan. I'll tell you more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Georgiadis. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister, I would like to say that as an exception, because in the difficult years we have fought for homeland to remain, we are happy about this with the shipyards, since we have also seen the final agreement. We are happy when such agreements are made for the country. We're not the people we're talking about breaking up the country so we can politically win. We have done this as space and have paid dearly. So from us you will hear about this agreement - we are not petty - and congratulations. We are pleased that we have made great efforts for the shipyards. When the deal comes, we'll see it all definitively. So we have another culture, another culture. We want our country to move forward, we want there to be new jobs, we want production to be possible here, because it will have great benefits for the country itself for the shipyards to operate. We know them. We have fought, we know what has happened in both Syros and Scaramaga Secondly, I understand that the banks - and quite rightly so - after the latest recapitalisation made - and unfortunately the banks were given by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL at a very small price in large funds - must work with new rules. But there is one issue here, which is also a signatory, but I think the banks should understand it, and you should call on them and give them concrete examples. This example I am giving you today is a very good example that you can send to the Association of Greek Banks. It is even about regional development and whether we want to keep production and people in the region and to be able to give a different meaning to what it means that we support these people who are close to the primary sector and can help. I expect you to send them this request. I'll give it to you in detail. I testify and we'll come back after a month. [[At this point, the Member and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Let's see if the bank can say no to these people and refuse, with what you say, which, in my view, can - because we give them solutions - go and get 80% of the project of the Ministry of Development, which is guaranteed with the Greek State. So the bank here decides and says that I do not want the small investors who, if they do not survive, will not survive the economy, even when it comes to production, Minister. He's not a transctor. He's a producer. He has his livestock and wants the livestock to process it, to sell - what all Greece wants - a quality product in and out of Greece. This is the success. There's nothing more to be done. The rest is another thing. We bring cheese and all that from the Netherlands. So they're for the national benefit. It will create wealth production, new jobs, support production. I give you the example today, which is specific. We need to send it to them and get them back to us, and we need to know which bank they will be able to support. You know what? We must give the good examples. If a bank is found and finances this project is a bank in the national interest. The big guys will get it, the more than two and a half million. We're inside the market, we know it. Over two and a half million big customers will figure out the end, give money, get anything. It is also a question of banks supporting a small number of people without taking a risk. There's no risk here, Minister. So please, on this basis - we will bring this back - and send you to the banks as well. I will also send it to local banks to tell our debate and send the Minutes to see if there will be someone who will be mobilised towards the national benefit. I am talking about systemic banks and those that have funds abroad and those that may still be under public control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u19	Let me repeat, Mr Colleague, because I want it to be heard clearly after you get the Minutes. I fully encourage banking institutions. And I find it incomprehensible that the investment programmes approved by the development law should be financed under terms and procedures that they will choose to be guaranteed, but that is what I mean, and not by further safeguarding - as this money is absolutely guaranteed by the state. Secondly, if we need to design a further tool through the Development Bank specifically geared to it, I have a good idea coming out of today's debate and you have my word that we will explore it and build it. I have to tell you this. If you remember, I made a statement that was misinterpreted by the Civic Opposition and fell to present me about as an enemy of small businesses. Who? Me representing small businesses. But I'm concerned about this as a man of real work, and I'm telling you. By my own intervention, when we saw that in our large publishing programmes the money was rapidly being used up to the big customers, but that the banks were not going to the small, with my own decision, I made a EUR 450 million programme where I put a limit on the fact that each loan could not be more than EUR 50 000 guaranteed at 80%. I did this to force the banks if they want to get that money to deal with the little ones. Mr. Colleague, I have to tell you why you need to know the truth. It was by far the most failed program of the Development Bank. One thousand five hundred loans were granted. A few days ago we voted on the Governing Council to increase the limit from EUR 50,000 to EUR 250,000 to keep the money from sitting. In other words, even with this treaty, the loans have still not been given, with 80% guarantee and pressure to go to the very small ones. So I tell you that the problem is more complex than we think in a debate in the House. That is why the law we have voted on to bring business together and the tax incentives for this is, in fact, aimed at creating businesses whose volume will allow them to take such loans more easily so that we can have a multiplier effect on the Greek economy. In any case, I would like to thank you, because your question is a real problem in real circumstances and you have my word that we are working as much as we can for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. Now the third question will be discussed, under number 72/13-10-2021, by Mr.Athens I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Garyfalias (Lianas) Kanelles to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Centre for Education and Rehabilitation". Mrs. Liane, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u21	I'd be grateful if you corrected my last name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u22	Candle, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u23	No, Mrs. Liane, you said. It's very old. Check it out in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u24	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u25	It was a comfort. You missed it. I'll take it. It's totally gorgeous. Mr President, Minister, the KEAT is an institution of educational, healing, supportive, advisory, and a pioneer for the country. Well, right now, it's an institution that operates on privatization criteria, out of every control and has twenty years to do an intake. Twenty years! And in the establishment of this thing we have reached a KEAT today which has two subsidiaries, the "PROTOPORIA", which has entrusted most of the work and the CDEP the creative employment centre of disabled pupils, the disabled children, which are financed at 99% by the CEFT and 1% by the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association. And we have the phenomenon of people being made redundant with twenty years of experience from the "Prototeria" and from the CSR, being put in the fridge and not being recognized by the administration. That administration! If there were any way, Minister - and I am speaking quite well of course - to present to the House or to any body, somewhere in the state, a motion of censure for administration, it would be for this administration of the CECT at the moment, which the workers were welcomed as administration with the best intentions. And Mrs Hamonikolau came in - if I'm not mistaken - and left nothing standing. When I say anything up, nothing standing up! He replaced people with experience. Do you know what it means to be blind and have a man who knows him and knows you? Do you know what it's important to create personal relationships, ties and experiences in such circumstances? And to be replaced by people on the sole criterion that they were in the Blind League or somewhere else with a year and a few seminars? No places were opened to say there was a competition. Because if they wanted a blind man in this position, there are also blind ones with doctors. Not even posted. These people are not recognized, Mr President, either by the public service that meets the fixed and regular and permanent needs of the public by this body. And the 'prototype' has ensured that I have been allegedly financed - underpinned - by the advertising of the mass media. And you know with the last crisis where the money went and there are no other things in this area than I do not want to open up the debate here and pluralize the issue negatively and the part of the CSR from the CSR and indeed the 'ERASMUS' programme. And this commander, who may have wanted to be permanently and has not been legitimized and who has done so by the Lord, does not even let people have molecules, does not give them a certificate to participate in CSCE competitions in public competitions. These people suddenly disappeared. There aren't any. They've never worked in the government, they've never met standing needs. They belong to a company. It is literally - I will dare to tell you, I do not do so in this House, I very much look after my words - madness, they are deceivable, they are rampant, they are personal and they cannot be the government's policy. I don't think so. I do not think it can be the government's policy to create such conditions in the JRC. We don't have much like the KEAT in Greece for this sensitive area of the disabled, the people who have exceptionally special needs. We don't have one! It's not a renewal. In an area that has not been recruited, and which you make two subsidiaries, which are precariously financed by a privatised process, and people who have no status and who have no status and who have to reduce their educational staff, lose valuable experience, lose relationships, and slow down the CEFT can not have wanted it. I don't even blame you. I'm telling you, honestly. I'm asking for your intervention. And if you'll see our questions arise from the needs of how many need to be re-employed, how many have to be hired, how the procedure to be done. And you know it better than me when something is covered by the NRP not covered, no needs being met. In this sense, a climate has been created within the CEAT, which is a slow death, a rotten downwards without any prospect of enormous insecurity. This cannot be even innovative and above all does not open eyes not only horizons for the blind, but it does not open society's eyes on how we can deal with these things. I sincerely would like an answer to what the government can and must do in our view on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou. Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kanelles, with all due respect for your parliamentary experience, I would like to point out that the excellent adoption of complaints about the functioning of historical bodies does not help the public debate. I really do not question your sincere intentions in bad texts and what you think may be bad texts. I also respect the general policy of your party, which is absolutely respected, is a historic position and can be broadly contrary to that of the government. Let me say that all policies are judged on the result, and even if ideologically your party and our party can be intermittently in contrast, the question is the proper functioning of an agency such as the CEAT, the education and rehabilitation centre for blind people. Today, the CEAT, as in all previous years, is a decisive and indeed the only public body to pursue policies and actions on social inclusion and the independent living of individuals, our fellow citizens with visual disabilities. It is and was a renowned body in this regard. Its main aim, which today is reflected in its actions - and I am imprinting it, so that we can see that in any case this body has not been devalued - is to train children so that they can, with much greater ease, monitor the formal education of the public school, cultivate mobility and guidance skills and provide children with hospitality and care from more economically vulnerable families. I would remind you of summer camps that with creative activities children are hosted every day. At the same time, the Centre has the very essential competence of writing and certification in Braille, i.e. it is responsible and of course still responsible for publishing all primary, secondary and higher education books in Braille, but it is the only certification body. So every year, and this even the hardship of the pandemic, it gives certifications to more than two thousand people - say - to get their extradition out in Braille. These are just some of the services provided by the CEAT, and this is important to say that there has been no deterioration, but not any deterioration and especially in the pandemic, which was even more difficult to operate, as was all the bodies who daily host disabled people and have actually done what goes through our hands to keep them open. I think that on the one hand we have a centre that manages to pandemic and stands at the height of circumstances and can and can provide corresponding services with all the services it has provided every year and at an even higher level. And why am I saying on an even higher level? I would remind you of the European Commission's 'INSIDE' programme, which is actually trying to train children with visual disabilities in STEM, Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, that is to say, positive and technological sciences, where the skills gap is too great for all Greeks, and how much more for people with disabilities. But here I'm going to get a little bit of the reviews I've heard. One criticism was that it's down. The other criticism is what it does with the "Initiality" and what it does with the ADAF. I would remind you that the "Initiation" is an AME, an urban non-profit company which the CEAT set up together - as you quite rightly said - with the National Blind Association in 1999, when the "Initiation" has been operating since then. The "Initiation" is different from the JET, i.e. when one works for the "Initial" one cannot obtain a certificate of experience from the State. In other words, a certificate of experience can be obtained by the "Guidelines" and by the CEFT, which is a legal person governed by public law. So, in this case you referred to, institutional and legal, one cannot obtain a certificate of experience and thus mobilisation for someone who works in an AMD, which was founded in 1999. Good or bad there's this AMD. Well, for me, there's this AMC because it's helped. Historically I cannot tell you that I have found her extremely helpful now and she has not needed this, but historically she has given, as far as I know, flexibility in the functioning of the Education and Rehabilitation Centre. This AMKE that we inherited, which operates, which in time and historically and empirically has given functionality solutions to the organisation, is hiring some people. These people, because they are AMKE staff, a certain period of time, cannot obtain certification from the legal person governed by public law, i.e. any administration - to say it very simply, even if we are in Parliament - would find her trouble if she gave certification and moleculosis to someone who was working on another legal person rather than to one. One is AMKE, the other legal person governed by public law. They couldn't. If this man, the lady in this case, was working on the legal person under public law, i.e. in the CRL, he could of course have obtained that certification. With regard to the CSR with disabilities - and that is perhaps the ideological differences we have - I cannot share the problem of operating with NSR resources. What I can do and do, because I have been called to manage the allocation of resources for the next programming period, is of course to do what is going through my hand - and especially to the nurses - so that we can pass this funding on to the next programming period and to the next ESDP so that these people can continue to work there, the service that we find extremely useful, productive and necessary to continue to exist on the other hand, to make the best distribution and use of the European resources that we have in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Michaelidou. Mrs. Canelle, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Did I tell you I have a problem with the N.S.R. money? That's not the problem, Minister. When I talked to you about maladministration and substance, one should explain to me whether it is good administration to fire a man with twenty-year experience of the CRL and replace him with a man of one-year experience. It's just. If it's good administration, you know what. I am referring to pre-service. Maybe there's something magical about the new recruit. There's a case inside the KEAT that was fired by a man and replaced by three. I mean, the work he did now is three. Unless we share a payroll at three o'clock. Then you cannot tell me that it is a well-established institution and, for this renowned institution, without any intake for twenty years, will not be attributed to those who have worked in this institution for twenty years. The institution of its own has decided to build the 'Guidelines'. Possibly for the sake of funds? For reasons of privatization of public needs, which are fixed by all governments to a very significant extent and proved practically tactic? I won't stand on this. I'm going to stand up to the point of the matter. I'm going to tell you this, so I can give you something to understand about the hammering of the process. And I think if you're gonna listen to me, there's no way you're gonna disagree. Do we agree that ASAP is valid, Minister, and that it is a valid institution above? Do we all know that the AACC is an independent authority - literally - and an independent institution, which is controlled only by parliament? The AACC approved two recruitments to the CEAT of workers already in the CEAT to simulate them. They put their papers, the contest was opened, they met the conditions. This has happened unprecedentedly in the history of the workers, the trade unionists and the attitude of the public we all have on the perception of work, which I think is not so happier. Do you know what the CEO did, Minister? He asked the AACC a question: "What right did you appoint these two?" And I have - I imagine you have read it, too - the overwhelming answer of the AACC: 'Who are you to check on us for approving the appointment?' I've read it. Haven't you read it? The AAP is coming and says that "these two people were fulfilling all the conditions for the competition. We're judging. The only person who can judge us for recruitment is parliamentary control, i.e. parliament.' So when a director goes and messes with the ADP, why did he do two simulations, why should I trust her and you? I don't care who the manager is. I just don't like talking unfounded, and I said her name. I don't care. I'm interested in the attitude of such a director. Maybe because it's third in a row to simulate in the ADP? I don't want to imagine this thing, that the whole KEAT is hanging by an administration that has personally. I don't want to believe it. That is why I have told you that there is a question of reasonable and political and essentially administrative reproach against this policy. Some place that has not been permanently appointed for twenty years decides to appoint two permanent ones, the rest of them have been out there, working orthodox - orthodox in this area where you need to develop and relations and exist there and use your experience, knowing people and being able to offer - and this thing went for a walk. In my questions, I would ask you very much to bear in mind the last of my questions on COVID, which are inadequate and need to be lifted to the extent of the circumstances of the CECT and its subsidiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Three things to say. One is for redundancies. No dismissal has been made from the CEAT. None. What has happened - and I specifically asked for numbers and numbers and everything - is some fixed-term contracts that were at the AMKE 'Initiation' within the pandemic have expired, stopped and no renewal has taken place. Now that the evidence's changed, the pandemic's over, there's going to be economic activity, and so the children are already back, these recruitments are going to be reinstated. Now, as far as this part is concerned, I do not want to stand either with the lady who is director or the other gentleman who has become director at the post of director. However, if we consider these to be semantic and symbolic for the functioning of the institution to be the following: Today the CEAT, the legal person governed by public law, which is the main and only pillar that we have for the implementation of social policy and the integration of disabled people, employs twenty-two permanent officials. With the 7K, which we have discussed before in this Parliament, one of the twenty-two JCCs takes twenty-three more. I would remind you that the 7K notice is a process that ran with us in this ministry. It was a process which had been legislated a year and a half before our government took over. I understand - not because of a huge straight line, because of the need - that it is a huge need for these positions to run. I took over in July and August the notice was running. So they're twenty-two permanent at the CEAT, plus twenty-three of the proclamation we ran, where for some of the specialties people have already gone. In the case of this lady now. This woman does not even belong to people who have left because of fixed-term private law at the "Initiality". He's still working in the "Initiality". Even if her experience, her molecules were from AMC and not from the legal person governed by public law, she is one of the twenty-three of notice 7K who will go and work normally in the CST. In other words, from where this lady has been in the "Growth" AMKE, she is one of the young twenty-three permanent employees of the Education and Rehabilitation Centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u32	I'm not talking about a case. I've been talking all this time about all the workers. They can't prove where they worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u33	But we've been talking all the time about this lady who was in the address and she's no longer in the address.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u34	I'm talking about the principal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u35	You tell the President, not the CEO. The lady, however, at the address, which we have all heard here, will go as permanent not because Domna or Mrs. Kanelle decided that she is doing her job well, but because the AACC decided that she has the criteria that can be made permanent. So he will go from AMKE to the legal person governed by public law, he will be a permanent employee there. And say that. I don't know and it's not my responsibility to know if he'll go back as director of the Centre for Creative Employment. What I know is that now is a director at the Centre for Creative Employment, who is younger, yes, but for me and for me I am new to that government, I do not think it is a disadvantage. In other words, I cannot say that I have replaced Mrs Fotou or Mr Kegeroglu, and her own age is a presumption of disadvantage. On the other hand, he's a philosopher and he's already with visual disabilities. So the division of management positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u36	It's not a matter of age. Don't twist me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u37	No, I'm telling you my opinion. I'm not twisting anything. I'm just saying that they have the same standard, they're both...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u38	It's a matter of service. It's not a matter of age.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u39	So we disagree, Mrs. Canelley. Because I, too, have my administrative experience before I take over this ministry - and I think I am responsible for my work - was very low.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, the debate is distorting. There was no question of racism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u41	Never. I didn't say that was the case. However, the question of pre-service cannot be the only criterion for the management to be allocated. That's what I'm saying. It was not my Prime Minister's criterion, it was not the previous Prime Minister's criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u42	Criteria can't control them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Canelle, please. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u44	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u45	In any case, I have the impression that Mrs 'will take her ear'. And I know you're sensitive, Mrs. Michalidou, on these issues. Have a good day at both. We move to the fourth with number 69/11-10-2021, a top-stage question from MP B1's North Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dues to the blood bottles". Mr. Gregoryde, good morning. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Minister, since I thank you for coming here myself for answering my question, I read it to you: "It is with great regret that we are aware of the tragic situation in blood transfusions of the multitransfusion patients served daily at the Mediterranean Anemia and Drepanocyte Disease Unit of the "Agia Sophia" Hospital and the other hospitals on the ground. Minister, for over a year now, tragic deficiencies have been observed in the system in the blood-groups, which have disastrous effects - I assure you - on the health of patients, on the quality of their lives and on their families and on their daily lives. These shortcomings, Mr Minister, are not, of course, the truth - today's phenomenon. In the last year, however, the problem - helping the coronary - is getting worse rapidly. In the past, however, the deficit was covered by imports of blood from Switzerland, which - as you know - has a great deal of cost and does not ensure that all needs are met, as missions are reduced whenever needs increase. In fact, we are hearing - and here is the crucial issue - how these markets from Switzerland, within the framework of the country's Memorandum of Understanding, must, from now on, stop - a little tragic, Minister - because of the costs and the needs of this country, just beyond. That means that the needs are not met, because that is why we are going to Switzerland for so many years, because the needs are not even covered in 50% internally. The consequences of these deficiencies, Minister, for patients are very important, as I imagine you will have already been informed as they are being subtracted. Eight hundred, approximately, patients actually receive 1/6 of the necessary amount of blood, resulting in a visit twice a month to a hospital, now being forced to visit the hospital eight times as they do not take the necessary blood, with what this entails for their health. At the same time, Minister, the haemorrhage units are under-represented, as are the entire HSH, of course, with workers unable to meet the requirements. Just listen to the number, I know you've read it, it's written in the question you've already read - four people, Minister, for eight hundred patients - and children! - "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital. Think of what a tragic number that is! Four people for eight hundred patients! Moreover, the vans of the hospital's mobile hemorrhaging units are allowed to rot, as the campaigns on the need for blood donation are not carried out by the Ministry of Health, in conjunction with the fear of COVID -19, so that the ESS cannot exploit the Greek citizens' blood supply. In view of all this, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister: First, is it true, Minister, that there is an obligation on the blood bottle markets from Switzerland to stop and what exactly do you intend to do in order to directly cover the lack of blood units so that the necessary transfusions can be carried out? Second, what initiatives do you intend to take? Will you be recruiting permanent staff so that no corresponding deficiencies are repeated in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Gregoryde. The Minister for Health will answer Mr Athanasios Plearis. Mr. Florie, good morning. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u48	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr Gregoriadis, you are really raising a very important issue and you are giving the opportunity of the National Representation to refer to it precisely. Last week I met with the Panhellenic Association of Persons Sufferers from Mediterranean Anemia, and they took me as well as their position and the full state of problems that exist. Indeed, that is why we have started, if you have seen it, and in the COVID updates, we need to report on the need for blood donation. Because the reality is that at the moment, over the last year, global blood donation has been reduced by 20%, because, unfortunately, there was no world turnout in the COVID period to give blood, because of the fear there was. In our country right now we need five hundred thousand units of blood, 56% of which are covered by voluntary blood donation and 36% by the related environment. It's a well-known thing, when someone goes to perform an operation and needs blood, they're asked for their relatives to give blood. The rest, about twenty thousand units, is covered by the introduction of blood from the Swiss Red Cross. The agreements that were in place provided for a reduction in these quantities of blood that will come. They'll be driven to 15 thousand. For 2019, it was planned to be eighteen thousand and for 2020 to be fifteen thousand. However, they have been amended, Mr Gregoryiadis, and at the moment there is no reduction. We can now receive twenty - one thousand. And any reduction has nothing to do with the agreements that are being made. We have returned to the numbers that we want to introduce. There may be deficiencies due to the global shortage I'm telling you. There is no question, therefore, that the quantities of blood that we will introduce will be reduced because of any agreement. This reduction, if any, is clear for reasons of weakness because of a reduction in global blood donation. So while your question is based, not because of the memoranda but because of the forecasts that existed, this will not be implemented. It continues for 2022 as well. And, in 2022, there will be a new agreement that, after the meeting which I held, and I was fully informed, as I said, by the club, I will try - as far as the Swiss Red Cross and the Swiss institution can do - to increase that amount. Especially for the "Saint Wisdom" you say, for about eight hundred adults who are served, they need forty-five thousand units. There was a very big problem in the past period because of not coming. The services inform me that last month this situation has improved, because the volunteer donors are now returning slowly to blood and there is no such great fear that there has been a previous period of fear. There has been a great problem between 2020 and 2021. We believe that this problem will improve. In my dentext I shall refer to the initiatives with the staff you say and how we will serve the people who are in blood donation. The problem is, however, a problem. It is a big problem. In addition to the positions to be expressed, there must be a joint message from all of us to volunteer donors who exist to return, because one of the side-effects - but very important - of COVID -19 is a reduction in the turnout of volunteer donors, resulting in worldwide - and especially in our country, which is in great need - not to have the quantities we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Plori, I am starting at the end of the answer you gave me. You know, the major problem is exactly that. It is the culture and education of voluntary blood donation that the country has. And it is a dramatic, confusing fact, as people are being lost, especially from Mediterranean anemia and from other reasons, the fact that we have not succeeded in post-Civilisation at least and, on the other hand, we have achieved a consciousness to the Greek people that this is part of his life. However, I have to tell you that it takes altruism to become a volunteer blood donor. He needs to take some time and give some of his blood, which in twelve minutes has been replaced. But this is about how he puts himself in this universe. It is about how absolute an end in his life is to become a success, to gain money and power. In short, it is a bit inconsistent for you to tell me where you represent neoliberalism. Liberalism is his doctrine I will step on bodies in order to gain strength because I was born as excellent. And I do not say it personally for you, I say about the ideology you share. In short, your ideology is against neoliberalism in every idea of sharing or mainly offering our blood for free. In neoliberalism logically, like all, blood becomes a trade. That's parentheses. I read to you, Minister, from 'THE PONTIKI', from 23-9-2021, from Ms. Argyro Morou is the article: 'If you are in Malakasa or in the Sandali settlement, evacuate now to Ororro'. This message, like everyone else, received, among others, Mr Panagiotis Vathis, whose difference between others who were at risk of burning is that he is one of about seven hundred people with Mediterranean anemia transfused daily in the Mediterranean Anemia Unit of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital. But even though it is necessary, Minister, two units in the fortnight, for the last one and a half years Mr. Deep receives only one because of the tragic shortages of names. You know, they're numbers, they're human. Mr. Vathy's life is under threat. We may lose him and we will all be criminals, and I am opposition, and even the smallest opposition. We'll all be criminals. We must hurry. Minister, I won't be long, I'm gonna need some more time. In short, and because I am more concerned with your answer, although I have listened with caution and feel that you are interested, I hope that you are really interested, because we have nothing to break up with, these people must live and be able to work, they must be decent, they must have a normal daily life from children to older people. So the most worrying part of what you have said - I hope you will cover it in your dentistry - is that we have not committed ourselves and have not spoken of the necessary staff recruitments at the "Agia Sophia" hospital so as not to treat only eight hundred transfused four people. They hear it from Greek TV people and it'll be written somewhere. You need to do something about it urgently and, above all, this poverty arises. If there's a division, there's going to be a tragic denominator actually. Therefore, and I am closing with that, Mr President, if I understand you correctly, you are committed that blood imports from Switzerland will not stop. You are bound, if I understand correctly, that temporary will be any reduction and will only have to do with 20% lack of global haemorrhage right now in the world. What you left me, and a little blurred is what will happen next. You said we'd fight it. I wanted to hear from my Minister not only that he will fight it, but that it is certain that the same quantity will then continue from Switzerland. I want you to say that, Minister. I want you to make a public commitment that, as soon as what is going to last for a few months, as I imagine - in fact, except for Greece and some Balkan and African countries, the coronary has ended - that you will find a solution. Secondly, please commit yourself to recruitment, as I said before, so that we do not face four of our fellow people, health and doctors, eight hundred transfused. Finally - and this is very important - how do we find the blood? We'll find it with external hemorrhaging units. He has such units in the hospital. Do you know why they rustle and rot the hospitals? Because the few, the four possibly doctors and the sanitaries must leave their position, Mr Minister, and this shows our monumental poverty and lead the mobile units to carry out haemorrhage. There are no other people, and I don't say them, they call them articles in three different newspapers. It says, Minister, and I will close with it, the Director of the ESS in the blood lab at the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital, Mrs. Ioanna Myrilla. It is said by Mr Svarna or Mr Svarnas that I do not remember exactly what his name is like, and also by the Director of the ESS. It's the experts. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u51	You're welcome, Mr. Gregoriadis. Minister Ploris has the floor for three minutes, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u52	Mr Gregoriadis, first of all, let us make it clear that the changes that have been made and the agreements will not reduce and I have, on the contrary, told you that I will try to see what potential there is to increase these quantities, not because of the Greek side's desire, but because we are able to obtain more. So there will be no reduction or, as I have said, any reduction will not be due to our desire or agreement, but to the inability of the body to give us blood. Of course, as you can see, the large mass of the five hundred thousand units comes from the haemorrhage that is being done here. These particular factors, which are very limited, mainly concern, and that is why they are very important, specific genotypic factors, and that is why it is often wrong. We don't buy blood, as it is called. We're paying for the blood treatment. It's all this process, but it's blood treatment. So, to finish the first issue, although the agreements provided for a reduction in the previous period, they have been amended. We are in the quantities that we have been and to the extent possible - that is possible by the body - we will also look at increasing these quantities. It is very important what you said and I will come back. By 56% the coverage is from the donors here, and this needs to be increased, because 36% that is from relatives, you understand - to be honest - that it is, I would say, to the limits of the blackmail process to go to the hospital and say "send some relatives". We have to. It is a time-consuming task because, unfortunately, it does not exist to the extent that we want and you said culture. Of course, I am not going to be tempted because I do not want to confront what you went to ideology a little bit. In other words, we too are the people who are centre right and liberal doesn't mean that we have no altruism to go and give blood. That's not a prerogative of a party. That concerns everyone. It's about every man who can give blood. With regard to the staff, to which you referred, the previous Deputy Minister for Health, and precisely because the problem, as I have told you, remains intensified, but it was much more intense when we had no donor attendance - the peak of COVID -19 and the lockdowns, when there were - so it was very difficult to get out of the house to give blood, with a mandate given to the RES, there was no employment in the world that was blood donations in another area. There was no move of them. They remained there even for the needs that might have existed in the ESS. It took the mobile units and the afternoon hours. Especially for what you refer to with the service, I switched to the information about the Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia". All the recruitments requested from the Children's Hospital "Saint Sofia", were made. It is eighteen different branches with notice 2K/2019 and fourteen with 6K/2020. Already in the new notices, which are intended to come out, there are also places for this. The distribution, of course, is about the hospital itself. On the occasion of your question, however, I also contacted so that we could serve this process with the staff hired by the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital, although the big problem, Mr Gregoriadis, is to have enough blood. There is no malfunction or, anyway, any malfunctions that may exist are handled with the staff. The point is to have a bigger turnout. To finish with this message in your question: It is important, even at this time of COVID -19, people who give blood to return to donate blood and people who can give blood - because there are too many who cannot give blood - to take the altruistic message that we say and go to give blood. Furthermore, another issue - and I conclude, Mr President - is that I would like to inform the Greek delegation: as you know, I have taken an initiative to change the forms, which were totally forbidden by anyone who has a homosexual relationship to be a blood donor. There's a scientific processing. I have said that this must be completed - because it is all the documents that need to be done - in this year, so that - I hope - immediately on 1 January 2022 - if possible and before - there are new forms in total that do not refer to the 1980 forms and the problems that were at the time. To be 2022 forms that do not exclude anyone from giving blood, only if there are reasons why they should not give blood. But not for some other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Plearis. Have a good time, Mr. Gregoriadis. Let's go to the sixth under number 85/18-10-2021 on a topical question from the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The hospitals of Edessa and Giannitsas are subject to the collapse due to the dramatic lack of medical personnel". Mrs. Jackie, good morning. You have two minutes to address the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u54	Minister, when I tabled this question I had in mind to convey to you the intense concern of the people of Pella for the attempted merge of the pathological clinics and the gynaecological clinics of the Edessa and Giannitsa Hospitals. But it seems that your political decisions run faster than parliamentary procedures. Already this action is considered to be outdated. The ITH of Edessa closes, as the two of the three intensifiers were already moved to the Yannitsa Hospital to fill the gaps. That means down, Minister. Your announcement that you will become an increased care facility in Edessa recommends mirrors and beads to natives. Honestly, my question is what kind of ΜΜΜ will be that of an intensifier and what incidents this intensifier will be treating. Of course, it also follows on from the fact that it will also follow the closure of other clinical and parts. The doctors of both hospitals have been denouncing these unacceptable movements between hospitals, the four health centres and the vaccination centres and the generalised hospitals - I would say - a lack of staff. And you, of course, are trying to cover it up. In fact, let me say that your announcement to upgrade the Giannitson ITH is a disguised nerve, because you hide from the citizens of Pella that there are huge gaps in doctors, equipment. And honestly, Minister, tell me: Do you believe that machines without proper human resources can make a difference in themselves? So when the Ministry of Civil Protection buys this patrol, it does so without having in mind the policemen who will be responsible for this? Also, Minister, this supposed upgrade is being attempted at the expense of the brother hospital in Edessa - I would say, cannibalizing it - instead of making the obvious, that is to say, giving serious incentives not all the notices in my border region are being given, finally lifting the unacceptable measure of the suspension of health care and restoring health peace in the area that is preparing to fight hard, much more so, when your ministry has not strengthened and has not shielded these infrastructures at all, and indeed has caught his nest. I would remind you, Minister, that this is a staff who, when the fight against COVID started -19 gave the fight without even resenting it, without even knowing how to protect it, because in the first year you said that he did not have to wear masks, offering help to anyone in need and having even paid very serious blood tax, since thirty sanitaries have lost their lives. Minister, as you can see the closure, the abolition of the Edessa intensive treatment unit and the start-up dismantling of the pathological clinic now make the Edessa hospital entirely complementary, which cannot stand alone. In fact, Minister, I am saying this at a juncture in the middle of the fourth wave of pandemic in which the citizens of the permissive Pella and, above all, the capital of Edessa, expected you to strengthen the infrastructure and not weaken them. In this case, Edessa serving the Almopia region and, as a whole - I would say - is mountainous, becoming healthly disadvantaged, Minister. I think the people who did this plan are ignorant and reside around Cologne Square. For, Minister, if something needs to be known about Pella, it is that it has two urban centres at a significant distance between them, over forty kilometres, with a significant inland area behind these cities. So far, there have been two hospitals operating equally, with equal infrastructure, with equal human resources, with equal equipment, and that is now overturned, as you can see, irresponsible. Honestly, I don't know which logic and what the criterion you want to degrade the operation of the Edessa Hospital. Honestly, I don't think you're doing it because the whole county has the same color. Of course, we had to suspect it when we heard the Prime Minister talk about rationalization, false rationalisation and economies of scale from the summer, apparently unnecessary for nursing establishments in the same region. The next step that is left by you and the government, Minister, is to tell us that we do not need to have any nursing establishment in Pellas Prefecture, since it is forty kilometers as soon as Thessaloniki from us and to abolish all the nursing departments. After all, I think that the great anguish of the New Democracy is how it will get back the conquests of Transmigration. And I want you to give me two questions I'm really going to ask you. Minister, what do you think is the worst health situation for the regions from Thessaly and above? What are the measures you have taken to deal with this situation? I would also like you to tell me if you know what the differences between IF and MFN are. I expect specific answers from you, because the issues, Mr Minister, are of particular critical importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jackie. The question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u56	Mrs. Jackrey, the Yannitsa were running six ITH beds and in Edessa three ITH beds. With the transfer of doctors, there are 12 ITH beds in Giannitsa. So in the total of two hospitals we have an increase of three beds of IFO and in addition the three beds of Edessa's IFO are operating as a MAF. Because you're making a connection to the suspensions, the staff associated with Edessa is absent not because of the suspensions. Two of them now came out to the "Hippokratio" in Thessaloniki to serve the ITH beds in Thessaloniki and there was resignation. So we have no connection to the inhibitors, because sometimes some people want to show that IF beds do not work because of the inhibitions. ITH beds operate at the hospital as a whole above, they are plus three ITH beds and in Edessa, where a contract has already been awarded to cover positions above, at this stage they will function as ΜΜΦ beds, i.e. mild postoperative steps that want increased care, increased surveillance. Technically there's all the support. Because of the staff they operate this way. So you should include in your position that at the end of the day we have three meth beds above, twelve in the Yanchas developed. That is why, precisely because they are facing COVID incidents - the ten beds in Janitsa are facing COVID incidents - should have been in a single space, because precisely functionally it is much better for all these patients to be there together. There can be no common IF beds with COVID and non - COVID incidents unless special conditions allow. So all the design was to transfer patients with COVID to that particular area and be able over there to hospitalize and be in this single space. Since you have already referred to what has been done in the recruitment section in general, however, I give you the data for this hospital: thirty permanent U.S. branch posts in the notices 20 and 21 - fifteen for Yannitsa, fifteen for Edessa - seventeen permanent recruitments - nine for Giannitsa, eight for Edessa - 14 supplementary doctors - eight for Giannitsa, six for Edessa - one hundred and twenty supplementary nurses - fifty for Giannitsa, seventeen for Edessa - eight hundred and seventy other ancillary staff, eighty four for Giannitsa, three for Edessa. And in total, the New Democracy Government - which you say wants to lower the ESS - has recruited ASK 12 000 people, which has renewed its contracts and, of course, two thousand permanent doctors - and there have also been five notices for two thousand eight hundred ninety-two, when in five years of the SYRIZA government - for permanent posts now - two thousand seven hundred and then another one for medical staff, permanent medical personnel. Because if you say we're in CoVID conditions, we'd tell you we're being covered by an assistant. These are permanent posts and we have already exceeded the number of posts you have taken in the five years of your government. It's more than doubled, IF beds, and they'll stay in the system. Of the five hundred and fifty you handed us over are in the thousands of three hundred IF beds. And at the moment any gaps created by the suspensions do not cause a problem in the ICMs, but they create a problem and malfunctions, which we are trying to solve with the quarters that exist. In fact, with an amendment that will come next week, there will be additional incentives for private doctors in this critical period to come to the system to provide services to fill gaps, most of which concern gaps that were in existence, which are not covered. You saw, I told you now from Edessa that we just got out of a proclamation. They chose certain doctors to go to a hospital in Thessaloniki. This is a problem in general terms of notices, that when notices come out, doctors - who are obviously unable to ban them - they choose to go closer to the place they live in. And the announcements from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are already coming out to cover the gaps. So staffing, empowerment is a priority of the government. And with reference to the ICUs you said, tell me too, as you asked me, if you are happy that there are three more ICU beds at the moment, these days with the act that took place or if you wanted the previous regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. Here, Mrs. Jackres, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u58	Minister, we are both lawyers and obviously to put ourselves on such a subject, we are both asking our doctors, who are the best consultants. Look, I will reveal the truth and you will cover it in this case. I'm explaining: The comfort if you have MAFs, I told you before that they are mirrors and beads for natives. This turns my region not in 1985 where there were no infrastructure, Minister. You turned her back to the 1950s where the respirators hadn't even discovered. You know, you don't give intensive treatment, but you don't even give a decent treatment. What does MFF mean? To explain, MAF means an increased care facility to supervise the patient when it comes out of surgery or any other intervention action taken or to welcome a patient coming out of the ICU or in any event during their crisis, unfortunate people in areas where there were no intensive treatment units. What does the ITH mean for a hospital? ID's kind of like the steam engine in the hospital's operation. Therefore, its abolition means a headline for its overall operation, as well as its establishment today, as you can see, in the overall upgrade for all the services of the hospital. The citizen of Edessa now, Mr Minister, who is seriously ill - and we must say this clearly - needs a long-term process, a particularly precarious process that puts him at risk as any negative development of his health must be tackled along the way. It is also a negative development for the very operation of the Edessa Hospital, because four nurses or four sanitaries during this process should be absent from the already weakened staffing potential of the Edessa Hospital. We know very well that this is a total deterioration, because in conditions of poverty, as you can see now, each hospital is looking at its own priorities. So, Minister, don't try to make things look good. You took over the head of the Ministry of Health at a time when the masks have fallen, because you still have behind you your neighbor, Mr. Georgiadis, who does not know if he also declares right-wing and liberal as you have told us before, but when he says "Soonly don't save them and slowly care" about the inconveniences, he makes you look like you are the natural author and this moral engineer. You spoke earlier about recruitment. What recruitment, Minister? That was the intention of covering the permanent doctors at the hospitals in Edessa. I want you to know that all the competitions for critical specialties, i.e. anesthetics, pathologists, pneumonologists, etc., have been fruitless in recent years. And that's what you know, Minister? Because you haven't given them serious motives. So I will tell you what we are asking you to do. I must stress that this is the worst time of the north, I think the worst part of the pandemic. We have right now from Thessaly and over 60% of all-Greek cases, when this corresponds only to about 1/3 of the population. And the measures you have taken are more than zero, Minister. Tell me if in the previous two waves - of course, now we have 50% vaccinated, which means morbidity will not be so high - we had five thousand dead per wave. Now where do you put the exact cubit? With how many dead, Minister, will you think you've achieved the previous one's cubit? In any case, I find it absurd in such conditions as pandemics - we are talking about a battle to be fought now - and poverty in intensive care units, you to reduce existing infrastructures and instead of increasing them, leave an entire region to be completely uncovered, such as the one in Edessa and Almopia. From there on, Minister, we have told you that the solution is a concrete one. There are no magic wands. You should finally give serious incentives to intake doctors into the border regions, because all competitions from here and thereafter will become barren, at the same time as we have human medical potential that exists abroad and we should somehow turn it back. In any case, you should immediately reinstate the sanitary staff on parole, Mr Minister, who is the victim of a policy which - let me say - at a personal level, you also consider it a failure, as the press who now considers it to be a failure, from 'KATHMERINI' to 'VOLUTIONAL TYPE'. Minister, if you don't get too many suspended seventy-five employees at the Yannica Hospital and the sixty employees at the Edessa Hospital, what else can I say here? I think, Minister, that this is a comprehensive plan for the degradation and devaluation of public hospitals, and most of all those in nearby areas that, if you like, are being worked out by some paperworms with which you have worked closely and have even been found in old stories. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u60	It is really a challenge, while you have done nothing really to strengthen the ESS - and I have shown you now that there are many more recruits of permanent staff and twelve thousand subsidiary staff, that is to say we have four thousand more doctors at the moment if we put the permanent posts and the posts of subsidiary - to go up, to come here, to sit down and say about pathogens that you have not solved five years. The barren areas didn't exist? Now did you discover the barren areas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u61	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Jackie, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u63	We are the government that comes and gives incentives. We've already motivated. But I don't understand from what you provoked from this Step here, something. You actually wanted to make me responsible for everything that's going on, you referred from Step to the dead - these things you said - and to cases. What's your proposal? You're talking about measures. Do you want your area to enter lockdown? Get up here and tell us to take steps to get the area into Lockdown. Are you suggesting that? Are you proposing to limit the economy, or if it goes to containment of the economy, then will you remember the economy and criticize it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u64	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u65	So listen. Now you'll listen. I listened very carefully. You came back and told me I was responsible for the cases and I didn't react and you react. You'll learn and hear from the position of counterpopulation. Mrs Jackson, there is a huge effort from this government to get the population to be vaccinated and the population of your region is also being vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u66	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u67	Mrs. Jackie, please. He didn't interrupt you. Six minutes you were talking and she didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u68	I understand Mrs Jackson's stress, but what I'm going to say will hear it, to see her responsibilities, as a party to see what she's done for them. We are making a great effort started by a campaign that started with a system that anyone with a sms can have the vaccine and start with mobile units to go all over the province and in areas where there is a problem, as is the particular area in which you are referring to, to convince people to be vaccinated. Mr Chiodras comes out yesterday, with a chart showing and demonstrating that at the moment in terms of people who are in danger of dying and surely entering ICUs, they are inconsistent with 90% and he says that these people if they are vaccinated will be saved, and your former Deputy Minister of Health renounces Mr Chiodra, who has taken the charts and said that thanks to the vaccination we will be rescued. These are responsibilities, Mrs Jackson, because the government's choice is as follows: we have a thousand 300 beds. These IF beds separate them equally from people suffering from COVID and non-COVID patients, because there are these incidents that need to be served. We are strengthening these structures, but we are saying in a clear way that, where they are vaccinated, they will return to the freedom regime and the economy and society will not close. We are addressing all our fellow citizens. Measures are measures to protect the invaders. The fact that in the small areas we do not take any more freedom measures is that the invasive person is more at risk of being seriously treated in ICUs and dying. So this risk must be highlighted in order to reach the percentages in areas where you are at least on the average of Greece. And it's no coincidence that the pressure is not distributed, Mrs. Jack. It is no coincidence that the areas that have more vaccination coverage will also be pressed, but will be gradually pressed on winter, precisely because there is the vaccine that protects this world. And I didn't hear you say anything about that, and I didn't hear you give up on the former Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, not on the criticism but on the fact that he attacked a professor who said that the vaccines saved lives. And you didn't answer the other one. There are currently ten COVID beds. Would you be pleased if the ten COVID beds were seven in Giannitsa and three in Edessa? Patient COVID needs the ICU.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u69	..................................................................................................................................................................... You're going back to '50.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Jackie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u71	Ms. Jackrey, because I see you're here to tell us about both ITH and MFF. The MAH, the care unit, works with the equipment of the ICU. If he had the staff, it would work as an IF. It could come out of a proclamation. Your dear colleague, who knows health issues, will tell you that the ΜΑFs are also very important beds are not negligible beds. When there is a staff, they will also work as an IF. The design, however, right now increased the beds. With what you say we did, in total, about the two hospitals, in Giannitsa there are 12 beds and in Edessa plus three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u72	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u73	Finally, for the suspensions. The government has said that there is compulsory health care, and there is compulsory health care, medical care, because an oncological patient has the right to not be dangerous to glue to COVID from the fact that someone who is vaccinated would stick to him. So this is an option that is constantly being reviewed with the data so far, that option continues, because there is still an increased risk of people who are inconsistent with other people's illnesses. But at some point make your decisions and make a real campaign for vaccination. Because you're going back to all the hospitals in Greece, your staircases, and well they do, they're looking to find out if they're missing anything and good they do. If the same tiles, however, were going to convince the citizens to be vaccinated, you might in the area you are elected and so as a Member you have an increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u74	We'll get Georgiadis too...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Jackie, should I go? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u76	Mrs Jackson, in the area where you are elected as a Member you also have an increased responsibility. So, as an increased responsibility, make a serious initiative as a party to convince people to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u77	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u78	Yesterday was my party in Edessa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u79	You're getting Mr. Polakis to do an anti-infectious speech yesterday, when Mr. Chiodras proved...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u80	Yesterday Mr. Paulakis was in Edessa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u81	Minister, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u82	...with charts on the need for vaccination, and on that day you chose Paul...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u83	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u84	Mrs. Jackrey, we're not in a square to have a dialogue. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u85	Ms. Jackrey, take a look at the need for vaccination. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Jackrey, you challenged and yelled. If it is, I'll go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u87	But it's causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u88	You didn't respect me at all. The truth is that. And we go to the fourth with number 79-14-10-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP, SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mass mergers of school departments against any educational and healthist logic". Mr. Philly, you have two minutes to start. Good morning, you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u89	Have a good day, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your understanding in advance, because it is a big issue. In the pandemic, when we see the fourth wave coming at us, as all scientists say, and while EGEY has said last year to the Ministry that he has to dilute the number of children in each department, that is to say to increase the number of departments, this year the Ministry started mergers of departments, that is to say, increasing the number of children in each department to twenty-five, twenty-seven and twenty-eight in a room of thirty square meters, even in container and pre-cactus. This is an educational pandemic within the pandemic of COVID. I am sorry, but the Ministry of Health, as we have heard, is fighting to open up more spaces to deal with the pandemic, the Ministry of Education is fighting to close spaces and create a crowd of children in schools. Why are you doing this? Apparently why there are large educational gaps. Instead of hiring staff, you do abbreviations of schools and departments. Look, it's not just us. We have thirty questions and reports from all over Greece that SYRIZA Members have submitted. It is here, and Mrs. Jufi who has testified for the continent with the other SYRIZA Members. Mr Digalakis, who is the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, went to Mr Vorides yesterday and told him to stop mergers and to find credits to be hired alternates, after forty-five days when the school started and even that. Miss Kerameau, who is the Minister responsible for this project, and she's not here, she's sending you. He treats you like what? I don't understand why she doesn't come here. We are calling for the Committee on Morphic Affairs to meet and discuss this issue. It cannot be the subject of the behind-the-spot consultations of the parties in the New Democracy when we unfortunately have a situation at the expense of the health and education of our children. There must be a transparent debate in this House. Mr President, we have, I repeat, dozens of questions and reports showing its dissolution are in our country's schools, in relation to the merging of departments and the downgrading of schools. Indicatively, in Evia, which was hit by fires and floods, we have schools which are degraded, in those places where the pandemics pass. In spite of what you say here in the House to Mr. Apostleu that this will not be done, the service actors, the training director there goes on to the downgrading of the schools. In Patras, close the deaf and heavy school. In Candano’s testimony, the vice - district chief tells us that you are closing schools. Where's that thing going? Have you undertaken in the pandemic to unleash education? Parallel support: about half of those approved by the Ministry, the CEDY, are missing and go to a model that instead of being an instructor with a student for parallel support, as the law says, you go to the "halfs", an instructor for two and three students, that is, you are actually turning parallel support into inclusions. It's a big mistake. Also, children with rare diseases that need education have been enclosed in their homes. Incarceration instead of distance education. School nurses and other assistants: nothing. Fortunately, the SYRIZA government has been able to proceed with the tender for the five thousand five hundred staff recruitments in special education. A signature was needed for you to put in this contest that SYRIZA had found, with ASAP procedures, etc., a signature and you made a year to put it. How many teachers are missing today? The regional director of Attica only speaks of a thousand blanks in Attica and without the parallel support being calculated. Throughout the country teachers are counted as missing about six thousand teachers plus four thousand missing for parallel support and special education, i.e. there are about ten thousand gaps. These gaps were not suddenly presented, nor were they due to pregnancies and educational diseases, as you say. It's bad planning, it's the ultimate state of awkwardness, but it's also a dogmatism you have, a dogmatism neoliberal to shrink the school. You exiled from the service councils the teachers who knew the issues of education and put party subordinate people there and proceeded with your plan that is a shrinking of education. Minister, the Ministry of Education is now the Ministry of War. You drag teachers into court with the Hatzidakis Act to erase what is in place, the flame for better education that fuels the mobilizations involving 70% of teachers. Leave the schools uncovered in front of the pandemic. You're shrinking departments and schools. At the same time, what you are doing is taking measures to the detriment of our children, to the detriment of teachers, to the detriment of society. I repeat the questions soon. I want evidence and not ideas reports. How many school mergings have been requested by the Ministry and how many have been carried out since the beginning of the school year? How many sections in the middle of a pandemic have over twenty-five students? How many requests for parallel support have the competent bodies been approved and how many have they been satisfied? How many parallel supports are allocated to one, two or more children? How many alternates have so far been recruited as a whole and by level of education and what is the number of pensions this year? What was the total number of alternates hired last year? I want evidence, not conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I think, Mr. Philly, I've never answered you with conversations. In your objection that the Ministry is hiding, you and Mrs Jufis, who is present in the debate today, are very well aware that our response to parliamentary scrutiny, as we owe it, is immediate. We're not hiding. It's something you're wrong about. I now come to answer a question you have written in quite rightly Greek, but with very wrong findings. You start by saying we make mergers because we don't want to hire substitutes. I'll remind you of the numbers. Last year we had four thousand five hundred in special treatment. Are you accusing us that it took us a year to sign it? Let me give you a reply. It took you four and a half years to open the competition. Because you have not taken advantage of this time to implement this commitment, since you believe you should do so. Almost twelve thousand permanent appointments this year, over thirty-one thousand alternates have already been hired. And I tell you today, on the day we speak, and I answer your question, two and a half thousand alternates will be hired. In the next ten - at most - days, more than two and a half thousand will be hired. So, when you support your reason that we are merging, why do we not want to hire substitutes? And that wasn't all on their own, Mr. Friend. They were because the Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, with very well-built proposals, documented to the Ministry of the Interior, highlighted the needs of education and we also achieved these additional recruitments. So we're just doing proper manpower management. I imagine you, too, as Minister, won't want to have a school of thirty children and six teachers and a school of a hundred and fifty children with three teachers. Staff, Mr Philly, must be used where absolutely necessary, where there are educational needs. This is proper management as well as proper use of the money paid by Greek taxpayers. The taxpayers' money must be placed in education as well. So as far as these questions are concerned, I will answer not with words but with figures and numbers in each of them, and for that, Mr President, I would also like your tolerance in time, because the figures must all be said. Apart from the two and a half thousand more than thirty thousand deputies who will be recruited today, to which most of the next few days will be added, in the current school year 2021 and 2022, there have already been twenty-six thousand five hundred sixty-one recruitment of primary and secondary teachers and five thousand seventy-seven recruitments of assistant training staff and special assistant staff, more than 12 thousand mion. In your question, I would mention that according to the data available to us in a total of seven thousand per cent eighty-fifths of general education in public schools, only 4.53% has over twenty-fifths and students. In particular, 2.62% twenty-six pupils, 1.57% twenty-seven students, 0.26% twenty-six students and 0.08% twenty-nine students. Do you want me to tell you and remind you of the percentage of your own governance? I will only take the school year 2018-2019. In a total of seventy - nine thousand six hundred forty - three - five students, almost 7%, that is, 4.5% today, 7% on your days. In your third question, for parallel support, in the current school year 2021-2022 we have twelve thousand hundred and fifty-eight approvals. Five years ago the parallel support for children with diagnosed learning difficulties was in five thousand five hundred children. In other words, we have a vertical increase of 125%, which, because you are genuinely interested, like us, must give some thought to us and face up to, giving parallel support, but also to consider the reasons for this vertical problem - you will allow me to say - an increase. The total number of recruitments for parallel support amounts to seven thousand six hundred fifty five during the first and second phases and will increase during the third phase. Specifically according to our data three thousand two hundred fifty one parallel support is distributed per one student and student, three thousand seven hundred four parallel supports are distributed in two or in a few cases to three students or students in unweighted cases when support needs allow. Contrary to SYRIZA - Independent Greeks co-government, the approval rates of parallel support were extremely low. For the teaching year 2015-2016, approvals to parallel support for primary and secondary were four thousand eight hundred, for the year 2016-2017 were five thousand six hundred, for the year 2017-2018 were six thousand six hundred ten. In the election year 2018-2019 there were seven thousand five hundred twenty-nine. But nowadays, approvals were launched, in 2019-2020, in nine thousand four hundred forty-three, in 2020-2021, in eleven thousand four hundred eighty-seven and in the current school year in twelve thousand fifty-eight. Equally low and disappointing were the percentages of educational staff recruited for parallel support in the years of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. Recruitment was less than half the approvals that existed. And, for example, for the year 2016-2017, the recruitment of teachers for parallel support was two thousand six hundred forty-five, three thousand ninety-six, for the election year 2018-2019, six thousand three hundred sixty. How many are now in our governance? For the year 2019-2020 seven thousand eight hundred sixty-eight, the school year 2020-2021 nine thousand eight hundred seven and this year already - and they follow another - seven thousand six hundred fifty-five. And there are subsequent recruitment phases. The rest, Mr President, in my dilemma, and I thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. The State Secretary with the information she has mentioned confirms what they denounce, not only the SYRIZA MPs, but also the New Democracy MPs. I am referring to Mr Digalakis' call for an increase in appropriations and no abbreviations, mergers and divisions. Furthermore, the State Secretary confirms that one in two of those who have been approved to have parallel support will not have parallel support, even with the recruitments he says will be carried out. While things have been well known since the beginning of the year, it has been a month and a half since the beginning of September and education is falling apart and they are now thinking of making new recruitments. Is this planning, in phases, to deal with known gaps from the beginning? I would also like to stress that it is very positive that the government compares itself, its policy, with what SYRIZA has done to governance. It is a high comparison measure. Because we received dissolved education - remember them - schools were not open, there was no special treatment in fact until April, Mr. Loverdos, the Minister of Education at the time, asking the retired teachers to come and teach them why they did not have teachers, they did not hire teachers, Mrs. Diamantopoulou did not bring books to the schools, send photocopies in November and so on. And since September 2016, we have put the cubit high. All schools can open up, with all the teachers, all books and special treatment on priority, as was shown by the competition that we started where a signature was missing and made a year to put it. It is obvious that we feel twice as much that we must control the government in the field of education. SYRIZA has done a job, the community knows it, the parents and the students know it. And all this without money. Here you have a river of money, Mr. Petsas everywhere, you buy Rafalis, you give to the Golden Boys of PPC money to sell PPC and money for education you can't find and beg the Tsangakis now, because he sees the pressure of society, he sees the pressure in Chania that exists, for example, to find credit and to recruit. And what are you telling us? Part of the recruitments. You don't say how many. Now, two thousand, we'll see later. When later? When the school year is over? With meals, you can do the same. You started out and said you were going to give, illegally took off the Court of Auditors, and what are you doing now? They're on their way to lunch. Nothing from school lunches. Is that an official state planning? No, it's not. Obviously, it's not. Is it just a government clumsiness? Oh, no. It's also an option, the deterioration of public school. It's also an option, the downgrading of the right to education for our children. It is also a governmental option, which is all about the social state. Citizens understand that and they'll pay you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Philly, for keeping time. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u95	I am not going to collect this compliment because I still think I am going to break the time. Obviously, the citizens understand, Mr. Friend. That is why you are opposition and we are government. Obviously, the citizens understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u96	It's time to shoot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u97	But to tell you something, and allow me, it is not an observation because I am not entitled to comment on you, but it is a point. Each time you table a question, you use it as an opportunity to extend your opposition position to all issues. You even involved the Ministry of Labour for school meals. You say and do not have a public speech or a step or you do yourself apologise to the very serious questions you are asking, because questions are serious and need an answer. There's only one other thing I'll tell you that we don't compare ourselves to SYRIZA. However, since you are asking, it is good to remember what you have done - you have also been through the position of the Minister of Education - what the government has done at any rate - because we are all conducting a government policy - when you were in this position. And the numbers are revealing. If they bother you, it's not our responsibility. The numbers reveal your own inertia and our best deal. As far as recruitment is concerned, I obviously did not understand. I shall say this once again: four and a half thousand have come to special education, almost twelve thousand appointments, over thirty and one thousand educational assistants, two and a half thousand today and over two and a half thousand in the next ten days. And this is not the result of Mr Digalakis' right concerns, it is the result of the coordinated effort made by Mrs Kerameos to the Ministry of the Interior. I'll say it again at risk of getting tired, because it's obviously not understood in my prototype. To your second question, you have to ask your surrogates. On 26-8-21 and 27-8-21 in the first phase of recruitment twenty thousand five hundred sixty-seven teachers were announced. I'm analyzing thirty thousand. In primary and secondary general education and special education as temporary substitutes for full-time or reduced working hours of a fixed-term private law at primary level, fifteen thousand forty-five teachers were recruited in the secondary five thousand fifty-two. In the second phase of recruitment of 27-9-21, an additional five thousand nine hundred forty-four recruitments of primary school teachers were announced in special education and education, general education and music schools. In particular, four thousand, thirty - seven, and eight hundred, eight hundred and seven teachers were dropped in the primary school. In addition to these recruitment numbers and by a separate process, two recruitment phases of five thousand seventy-seven overall alternate members of specialist and assistant staff have been completed. Not to mention the two and a half thousand, the most to be hired in the next few days. Likewise, last year in '20-21, a total of forty-six thousand seven hundred twenty-six replacements, of which sixteen thousand five hundred seventeen in the secondary year, twenty-eight thousand six hundred and fifty-four in the primary year and thousands of fifty-five five under a three-month contract. As you know from your term of office at the Ministry, a significant number of teachers are leaving the service for reasons such as retirement, resignation, self-justified dismissal due to the completion of an age limit, death or some are absent by using legal permits. Do you want us to deprive them of that right? I do not think that is something that you would like or would support in public. For example, the departures of teachers and members of special educational and auxiliary staff in the year '20-21 were seven thousand four hundred fifty-two. Last year, Mr. Philly, it was four thousand, and last year it was two thousand. The numbers also have their meaning and strength. And during the school year until 19-10-21, we still had ninety-three school leaves. There are also, in the current school year, about seven and a half thousand teachers, who are absent using legal unpaid leave, sick, upbringing children. Do not deceive them because you have also referred to pregnancies in a way that I am sure they do not express you. Covering gaps is a dynamic process. The gaps come daily. We have an eighty-eighty-three thousand teachers to manage. There are problems of this kind throughout the public sector. This area that is our responsibility, and it was your responsibility in the past, is very sensitive and there the gap has other consequences, other significance and obviously another projection. And a word, Mr President, about the proliferation of pandemic and its anguish and anxiety, Mr Friend, as to whether the schools will function smoothly in the way in which we have implemented experts' recommendations in political decisions. I will assure you, and you know very well that what experts recommend is the denial of a political decision, we do not act on it, we do not exaggerate, we do not omit anything, otherwise. They say, then, experts say that less efficient are the reduction of disciples and disciples, their density. In fact, with the universal testing once a week, we do it twice and more if case occurs, a 70% reduction in transmission is achieved and evidence proves it. The September figures say we had three thousand fewer cases in children four to eighteen years of age in September that the schools, which became millions of tests, were open, while in August they were closed and became much less tests, were increased by three thousand, significant numbers. That's what matters. A second element which also matters is that cases at the ages of 15 to eighteen have been drastically reduced. We have two and a half times less cases in September at these ages and, of course, also due to vaccination, but also to compliance with the health protocols for which we thank very much teachers, parents and students. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Makary. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-22-S1-commons.u99	With the consent of the House at 11.09 p.m., the sitting on Monday, October 25, 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
