ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Friday 25 June 2021, tabled by the Secretary-General of Legal Affairs and Parliament, Mr Koutnajis. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 879/17-6-2021, a topical question by MP SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: ‘What criteria has the Government set for the purchase of new wells? Has it changed our defence strategy with regard to the capacity to defend our sovereign rights in the Aegean and in the Eastern Mediterranean?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 872/16-6-2021 by MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Exceptive transcriptions - movements of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". 3. The Question No 883/18-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To withdraw the vengeance of workers at JUMBO in Heraklion, Crete". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 885/18-6-2021 by MP B2 'West Sector of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Union for the payment of retrospectives for thousands of pensioners'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 884/18-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Integrated coverage of the needs for children's registration at nurseries, Creative Employment Centres (CEDEFOP) and Creative Employment Centres for Disabled Children (CEDEFOP)". 3. Under No 886/18-6-2021, a timely question by MP Rodopi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Demetrius (Takis) Haritou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Your commitment to the reopening of the industry has been made to the Komotini Industrial Area'. 4. The Question No 889/18-6-2021 by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Protection measures for professional and residential leases". I should like to inform you that today only one topical question will be discussed, namely No 873/16-6-2021, the first-round question of the Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Four and excessive injustice for the substitutes for theatrical and visual theatrologists'. The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first I would like to thank you for being here today. As you well know, the permanent recurring practice to fill the real gaps by hiring substitutes is downgrading the educational work produced and creates serious problems in the functioning of the school community, while building up a contradiction of educational relationship in the sense of the incomplete consolidation of the interaction of students and students with the under-representatives of artists and theatrologists, much more so when we talk about courses, which enhance the psychosomatic maturation of pupils and students and the multi-level culture of their artistic skills. In addition, these teachers, apart from experiencing the hard work insecurity every year, live every day the suffering of a kilometre of travel to various schools in order to complete the working hours and this often far from home and their families. Taking into account the fact that they cover the fixed and continuing needs of education, it is imperative to establish permanent jobs, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to equalise positions in the light of the planned appointments. For, Minister, apart from law, it is also worthwhile to reduce the chaotic ratio of permanent alternates of these specialities. I ask you in a direct way will you make public an image of the exact number of organic posts, which correspond to substitutes for theatres and visual lessons in the light of the forthcoming appointments to primary and secondary education, while at the same time sharing and reducing the proportionality of permanent and alternates of these specialities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the political leadership of our Ministry, the permanent appointments of teachers from all levels are an absolute priority in the planning of the proper training process. In particular, it has been said, but I will repeat it for you who are interested in our issues and we thank you for that - we have provided for the appointment of tens of thousands of permanent teachers for general primary and secondary education, and in this way not only extends and strengthens the public school with human resources, but, above all, the learning process is based on the teaching process and, at the same time, on our teachers and teachers, the stability, the prospect and the opportunities of professional elevation, which you are asking for in your question. It should be stressed that in the four and a half thousand permanent assignments of special treatment made in 2020, which were the first in the history of the country in this sensitive area, these ten thousand five hundred I mentioned are added, thus covering important needs of our educational system. Our ultimate objective is only the simultaneous satisfaction of two contingent needs: the creation of a sense of security and of employment for our teachers because of the dynamic nature of education itself, but also the coverage of our students. This year, as every year, our effort will focus on the realization of appointments and the placement of our teachers, who will serve the school units before the start of the school year. I would like to stress that appointments are part of a series of reforms implemented by our ministry. The reforms that have begun and will be completed shortly concern the qualitative upgrading of the public school and indicate to you: the two-year pre-school education, the education skills workshops throughout the country, the primary and high school activities in English in kindergarten, the supportive teaching in secondary schools, the support structures of education, the integration of vulnerable social groups and refugee workers into the relevant process, the specialized and personalised support for the integration of disabilities pupils and pupils, the support of schools by psychologists and social workers, and the distance learning of our teachers. At the same time, it is digitally upgraded the public school and the school network and it is worth mentioning that within a few months approximately one and a half million teachers, pupils and students were integrated from primary, secondary and lifelong learning in distance education, which have been transplanted for the time being, the future by crushing stereotypes and seals. An amendment by the Ministry of Education and Religion was already passed at L.4807/2021, where Article 55 entitled "Structuring for organic positions in primary and secondary education staff sectors" stipulates that there are now seven hundred twenty-sixteen organic posts of primary education staff at the same time as the abolition of equal numbers of posts from secondary to different branches, including the branches and specialities of PE artistics with three hundred and ninety-sixteen posts, theatre studies of theatre with a hundred and seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-st-sixth-s. By decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, the positions in the case of (a) are allocated once to the training addresses per transfer area and to school units. Organic positions by industry and specialisations, which are created and allocated, are available for the final placement of teachers at the disposal of the regional services councils and for the examination of forwarding applications for the school year 2020-2021, which have not been satisfied with any choice. Organic positions that remain vacant following examination of applications for transfer are available for appointment. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have indeed heard you very carefully. But I did not hear anything specific about what I asked you. These people in the past twenty years have initially served as mature and mature and then as substitutes and substitutes for schools, both in the urban centres and in the most remote parts of our country, away from home, with what this implies, that is, elastic working relationships, work depreciation, economic insecurity and forced on continuous journeys, and constantly changing school units. You'll know, I think I'm very well. Of course, you don't answer anything specific, as I said before. The Greek public school needs the establishment of organic posts by both permanent theatrologists and visualists, not by nomads of education. The nine hundred thirteen candidates are substituted and the seventy-five are permanent teachers, appointed through the last SAP competition in 2008. This demonstrates that for many years the same people have been covering the fixed and continuous operational needs of the school units. Of the one thousand five hundred seventy-four artists who served in primary school in 2020, the organic position is only one hundred and twenty-two, transformed from secondary to secondary in 2013. This proportion of permanent to substitutes for all primary school teachers is 73% to 27%, with 7.7% to 86% of the corresponding proportion of undergraduate teachers. In other words, a concrete answer is needed on your part, regarding the organic positions and the planned permanent appointments, concerning theatrologists and visual teachers. I would remind you that the non-recommendation of organic posts and the supremacy of over ten years in combination with pensions - transfers have created huge teaching gaps, while the repeated practice of covering real gaps with the recruitment of substitutes along with the constant conditions of their movement and changing schools reduces educational work and creates serious problems in the functioning of the school community. Of course, the government is consistent with its ideology, i.e. with the deterioration of public education, the facilitation of private schools to increase their profits and the continuing hostage of teachers. However, the restriction and indirect eviction from the public school of cultural art and the consequent expulsion of parents to privately seek the possibility of expressing their children are excellent and uneducational and anti-social. The existence of these courses contributes to the multi-faceted psycho-emotional development and maturation of children and to the creation of their personality. Even more today when we experience a triple health, economic and social crisis, which comes to be added to the major crises of our time, such as the hospital, Madam Minister, it needs an ITH, so the school needs its own ITH: music, visual, theatre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you obviously did not listen to me at all, because if you listened carefully, you would have listened to the numbers I gave you. I talked to you about ten thousand five hundred assignments, I told you about four and a half thousand in special treatment, which took place for the first time in history. Ten thousand five hundred appointments have been the first to take place in the last few decades. I mentioned organic positions, a certain number of organic positions. I told you where they'd be distributed. So you probably didn't listen with care. In any case, I will only agree that we are consistent in our ideology. Yes, we are. We have an ideology known, which has also been ratified by the Greek people. If I do not, in my dentistry - as I have told you - I will give you details of the organic positions, the procedure under which they exist, and of the number of substitutes for theatrical and artistic education. According to Article 7 of Law 3848/2010, as is the case in Article 15(3)(d) of Law 1566/1985, the appointments of permanent teachers are made on the basis of existing organic gaps. They shall be subject to the procedure for the transfer of permanent teachers staff and shall be carried out on the remaining posted posts. Subsequently, with the allocation of appointments, a joint ministerial decision is issued by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and the Minister of Finance, which determines the number of vacancies for teachers, to be covered by industry, specialisation or specialisation. For teachers of primary and secondary education, including the qualifications of teachers of artistic and theatrical education, the provisional evaluation tables for rankings 1GI/2019 and 2GI/2019 were published and the adoption of final evaluation tables will carry out the appointments of permanent and then the recruitment of alternates. Until the final version of the evaluation tables, temporary alternates shall be recruited until issue. I will also refer to the recruitment of the assistants of theatrical and dramatic arts in the school year 2020-2021 to general education, to special education in both primary and secondary terms. These, my fellow Member, have been made at different times depending on functional gaps. In addition, over the five initial different time periods and recruitments were carried out in two other periods, by issuing a special invitation for specific schools and in two periods following three-month recruitments due to COVID -19 to cover gaps, with the possibility of extending the contract. Until 5 March 2021 they were engaged in the primary substitutes for theatrical and dramatic art of general education, the reception and education structures of refugees and the special treatment of nine hundred and fifty-eight, to cover gaps under a three-month contract due to COVID - 19 thirty. At secondary level, they were recruited for general education, reception and education structures for refugees and special treatment for nineteen, to fill gaps due to COVID -19 total of four. The new organic positions, which I mentioned in detail and in numbers in my prototype, were considered necessary in the light of the forthcoming appointments to general education and, as I understand it, the theatrical education and artistic courses are necessary, and that is why we have also recommended organic positions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We shall be adjourning for a moment, so that we can then enter the agenda for the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Economic restoration of concessional airports due to the consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic of 2020’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 17 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives should participate. A circle of priority is proposed, which will include one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from MERA25. With a teleconference service, Webex platform or also physically present, another 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u11	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that the time be respected by all the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we will vote for the draft law of the Ministry of Finance entitled 'Economic restoration of concessional airports due to the consequences of the COVID Pandemic -19 for the year 2020'. The draft law is composed of two unique articles. The first article ratifys the contract signed on 31 May 2021 for the compensation of ‘Fraport Regional Airports of Greece 1 S.A.’ and ‘Fraport Regional Airports of Greece 2 S.A.’ due to the measures taken to deal with the COVID pandemic -19 for 2020. The second article grants financial aid to the Athens International Airport S.A. because of the consequences of the exceptional event of the coronary pandemic. There has been a very good discussion in the committee, which has also been asked by fellow speakers, and then an effective meeting was held with the Minister in response to all these issues. For these reasons, I believe that today's bill will be broadly accepted. On December 14, 2015 - hold this date, ladies and gentlemen - the Greek State, the concessionaire TIADED and the concessionaire "FRAPORT" concluded the concessions for the upgrading, maintenance, management and operation of Aegean, Crete, Continental Greece and Ionian airports. According to the above-mentioned concessions, the concessionaire was not obliged to insure himself and his work and is not insured against operating risks, loss of revenue, loss of profits from an epidemic or related cause or measures and orders of public authorities. The concessions were submitted by the State to the Greek Parliament and ratified by Law No.4389/2016 and in particular Articles 215 and 216 thereof. Since the beginning of the Koroni pandemic and for the year 2020, the public, in the context of the measures taken to protect public health by the European Union and globally, has adopted a number of regulatory provisions setting many and varied restrictions on the free movement of aircraft and passengers, thus making air travel almost prohibitive. I quote some indicative statistics from the recent EUROCONTROL report, the European Agency for the Support of European Aviation. According to the May 2021 report, a few weeks ago, traffic across Europe in May 2021 was 61% lower than in May 2019. And the most prevalent scenario at the moment, which has three important prerequisites - the continuation of vaccination at the same rate as '21, the further relaxation of measures and the increase in large flights - is that we will return to 2019 levels in 2024. This scenario is the optimistic scenario, and it concerns the whole of Europe and, therefore, Greece. Specifically, in May 2021 the move was at 39% of 2019, but is always expected, according to the optimistic scenario, to reach 69% in August and 79% in December. I would very much like to table the relevant table on what I refer to in my report in the Minutes for colleagues. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Greece, some eighty-four thousand flights were made in 2019 and in 2020 only three hundred and three thousand flights, a 56% drop. And while from 2014 until 2019 there was a steady upward trend. Germany, France, Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands had a corresponding fall close to 55%. While countries such as Cyprus, Italy, Spain and Great Britain touched 60%. I would like to submit the relevant tables in the Minutes - Tables 3 and 4 - for the information I am referring to. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In our fourteen regional airports, passenger traffic was limited for 2020 to 70.5% compared to the corresponding period of 2019 and the Greek State considers that the public contribution provided for in Article 3.1 of the concessions has been met. It follows from the same contract, namely Article 34.1, that if, during the concession period, the concessionaire, namely ‘FRAPORT’, proves that, because of a public liability, its revenues have been reduced, the State will compensate the concessionaire with an amount equal to the difference between the revenues made during the quarterly period in which the event in question arose or during any quarterly period in which that fact or effect continued to exist on the basis of the income forecast in the economic model for the same period. However, for the purposes of calculating the damage compensation, which has suffered as a result of a public responsibility, the payments to the concessionaire will be taken into account and offset. However, after the contractual provisions, the concessionaire’s compensation amounts to EUR 177.8 million. In particular, EUR 98.7 million for the ‘Fraport Regional Airports S.A.’ and EUR 79.2 million for ‘Fraport Regional Airports B.E.’. In this context - and to keep this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is important - no cash will be paid by the Greek State. It has been agreed that the non-payment and offsetting of the annual and variable concession fee for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. If the passenger traffic in the year 2021, that is, the year we are spending, remains below thirty million eight hundred passengers, this discharge will be extended in the year 2022. The estimate of this amount, that is, seventy-seven million euros, was carried out by a specific clear rationale procedure. It was also carried out by an independent audit house of international prestige following the assignment of the GOI. Such compensation shall constitute a full agreement on the loss of the concessionaire in the year 2020. Following its legislative ratification, the concessionaire will resign from any other claim for the year 2020 due to the measures to address the COVID -19 pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the second article of the draft law, which provides financial support to the Athens International Airport SA, according to the case-law (b) of paragraph 2 of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, due to the consequences of the exceptional event of the COVID -19 pandemic. The financial assistance shall include the direct grant to the company of up to EUR 51,6 million and the non-payment and clearing of liabilities to the Greek State up to EUR 78,4 million. Up to EUR 48.4 million for 2020, up to EUR 15 million for 2021 and up to EUR 15 million for 2022. The total financial assistance is up to EUR 130 million. It should be noted that the granting of the financial aid to Athens International Airport is subject to the prior adoption of the European Commission’s approval decision, specifying the period during which the aid is authorised and its amount. For the purpose of granting the aid, the company ‘Athens International Airport S.A.’ shall apply with the necessary accompanying documents and the certified checks for the exact amount of the damage suffered, in order that the total amount of the financial aid does not exceed the loss suffered by the company. The application shall also be accompanied by a written declaration of resignation from the Greek State for the same period. Relevant State aid measures in the context of airport operators compensation for damage caused by exceptional events have been taken or intending to be taken by all countries in the European Union. It should be noted that ‘Athens International Airport S.A.’, in response to its crucial role as operating and managing a strategic infrastructure for the country, continued throughout the year 2020 the operation of the airport, ensuring the service of the minimum remaining commercial traffic as well as national needs in the context of the crisis. However, the continuation of operations with almost universal revenue shortages has had and has a particularly prejudicial impact on the company’s business viability and job maintenance. The current status of flights to and from Eleftherios Venizelos airport is four hundred and eighty-three flights per day on a weekly average. The figures are from 8 to 14 June 2021. This figure corresponds to a 35% reduction compared to the same period of 2019. The reduction, however, is even greater in the rest of the country. For example, at the airport "MAKEDONIA" we have a 43% reduction and a hundred and twelve flights were made per day on average for the period mentioned above. The airport ‘N. KAZADZAKIS’ in Heraklion Crete for the same period of time shows a 51% reduction compared to 2019, i.e. a hundred and twenty-six flights per day. While Rhodes Airport has a 55% reduction. I am tabling relevant tables on information for colleagues in their minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government, recognising the strategic importance of these infrastructures, which affect the entire population of the country indirectly or indirectly, brings regulations aimed at preventing effects with significant economic and social implications, in particular by supporting air transport and tourism workers. The aim of the Treasury bill is: first, to restore the damage caused by the measures taken to deal with the pandemic in the year 2020 in the companies mentioned above, concessionaire and airport. Secondly, the continuation of the smooth operation of the airports in the country. We can all understand how important this aid is, because how many branches and how many thousands of workers depend on the operation. Finally - and this should be noted in any case - the ratification of the concessionaire's compensation contract is for the benefit of the Greek State and serious financial turbulence is avoided, as I have already pointed out, by offsetting annual concession fees for 2019 to 2021. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I call on the Vice-President to vote in favour of this bill as rapporteur. Let there be no reservation, because it is a bill that primarily works for the proper functioning of airports, for the financial support of our airport and, above all, for the support of dozens of employees and of course for the support of tourism, which is a pillar of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you too, Mr Spankee, for keeping time. I would like to make a statement from 23-6-2021 to this House. The Ministers of Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Health and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Civil Protection and Culture and Sport submitted on June 18, 2021 a draft law by the Ministry of Health on the subject: "Strengthen the amendment of the Law of 24.3.2021 to the 3.2.220 individual Donation Convention on Work [Annex 5 of the Act]. 4564/2018] and its amendment from 13.5.2021 of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade the health infrastructure and its annexes, arrangements to deal with the COVID pandemic -19 and other provisions. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Trif Alexiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a simple matter to discuss today. We have a simple topic in the sense that the SYRIZA Government has entered into a contract with this company and we are now coming to see this company's demand because of the COVID pandemic. Starting from this point, Minister, I make a request. I have been reading the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament for years. I think that you too should study it and that the corrections should at least be made in the second article on the subject of the COVID pandemic must be made. There is no need at all - because people are kindly saying so, because apart from scientific competence, they also have a very good diplomatic language - that there should be reference to a specific disease and, as they say, they have reiterated in previous reports. It is not possible for the Scientific Service of the House to repeat and repeat just things and for the Government not to want to take them into account. We are discussing today a simple matter for which we have taken a clear position. However, because, as in committee, despite my warning and here we will hear various criticisms, I would like to point out something. In 2015 we did not inherit heaven. In 2015, we inherited a specific situation in both the economic sector and the country's obligations and the country's finances. I wish that at some point the government's party dares to dialogue either in its most favourite mass media, where every day you have the monotonous monologues, whether in the House or anywhere else you want. Have a friendly institution to organise a conference, a conference on how we got to the crisis, who was responsible. In 2015, therefore, we received a specific situation and one of the many problems that we received, one of the many hot potatoes, were the issues of public property, where both the issues of ports and airports and the question of private roads and on a number of other issues, we inherited a situation. What we will judge is what we did, not what we inherited. For there are many of us who are blatant and criticized for what SYRIZA inherited. Let some be careful as to which governments participated and who had alliances in previous years and not now as repentants come here and criticize us. They should be careful which governments they supported and where they participated. Let's come see this one. What was SYRIZA doing in this contract right or not? We will be judged on that. And since we are talking about contracts with large companies, and we Piraeus MPs have similar problems with another convention that exists with the company 'COSCO', once again we say it from the Step of the House - and the SYRIZA Secretary Dimitris Janakopoulos said yesterday - we support and accept only what the contract says and do not dare anyone trying to get drunk, move shares or other strange situations, contract reviews, etc., beyond what the contract says. We will defend the public interest, we will defend the contract, we will defend the interests of Piraeus and the port precisely in that logic. That's what we do here. We realise that the pandemic issue has created a specific situation and we want this situation to be resolved within the framework laid down in the Convention. That is why we have come to the committee - and we believe that the debate that is taking place in the committee is not a debate to tire out the record, and that they are doing a great job, or to lose hours or hours, and those who are watching us are to have a real debate - that of course we must address this issue. We are very interested in it, which is why we also made progress in the pressure we had and in the problems that we had in 2015 in this convention. We are interested in giving a solution, but on the basis of what we have all sworn to, on the basis of the interests of the Greek State. That is why we have asked for concrete information. That is why we have said that we cannot accept a convention which has sixteen - seventeen points, which refer to some other documents and these documents to the effect that we do not have them in mind and ask to vote on the convention. So who's gonna sign a contract or anything else that says that on the basis of this document or the topographical basis or on the basis of that decision I'm buying or selling without knowing that thing? That is what you ask the Greek Parliament to do. We have therefore tabled this request as a SYRIZA parliamentary group and a good one, Minister, for you to be informed of one representative from each party. I would like to give my parable here, which concerns the Bureau of Parliament, on how this will work. So are there going to be legislation to which representatives of the parties will be sent to study the evidence and will the whole House not consider it? I don't understand, is that personal data? Are what films does Alexiadis see, or what websites are he watching, or what football team is it, or what does he like to eat, drink? That's not personal data. It should be in public dialogue, especially when it comes to public money. Because I told you in committee too, I am telling you here. I do not see him coming, the responsible "Decree Minister". Because from what I learned, the remodeling began and you have defined a competent "Declaration Minister". When you came out as a competent Minister - and you did right - you have rightly signed it - responsibility, not in terms of content - to increase the objective values. Another Minister came in, who is unreserved of both the objective values and the rents and said, in the joy of the owners and not the tenants, who are mainly the middle class, which you once said you would protect, that the rents must now also be increased because the value of the property has increased. Because, therefore, this Minister said that every money, every euro that wastes the public is loans for the future, so we are very interested in seeing exactly what is being done with these contracts, which concern the Greek State. That is why we have asked specific questions in committee. That is right, therefore, for you to accept - and one representative from each party was made - the presentation of this data. We have sent a competent and experienced official from the Ministry of Finance, who has experience in these matters and studied all these documents. Sit over three hours, man. It could be three days there to study them. From what other party representatives have informed me, they have not even sat in half an hour. But they may also have a rapid perception of us not taking them too quickly. But, as he amazed me, only the reasoning of the Legal Council of the State has seventy pages. Seventy pages of reason! How many hours does this take to study? For all these documents you had there to see, how many hours did it take? There is therefore an issue here, which also concerns the Bureau of Parliament and all of us, as to how we function and what is going on with this issue. It is true, therefore, that the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance has shown the documents, in my opinion, problematic that there was no representative of the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance there to discuss with the representatives of the parties, but that is your political choice and we are moving forward. But, Minister, answer us a few questions, which were born from this meeting. It's probably because of some of my own reduced perception or anything else. First of all, there is one observation. I see you going often and giving interviews to a channel, which is my friend Mars and before was my friend Babis. Tell my friend Mars, who was anxious if the house that burned on the last fire was secure, that the deprivation unit would ask if it had insurance, and the company would answer that it hadn't secured it! Because such a question might come up, let them know that no, it wasn't insured. However, as regards points 14 and 15 for the studies of the audit companies and the financial data of the 'FRAFORT' etc. First of all, we do not understand why you have shown us only the perfect summary and not the whole study. So, you're referring to a study, we're asking for a topic to see the study, you say, 'Come see it' and go there and you only have the perfect summary? For what? Explain to us something else, because I may, with the reduced perception again, fail to understand it correctly. Has the company signed a contract with a specific audit company on 23 March - not with a tender procedure or anything else, by delegation - and this company had such a mechanism, such skills, so many people, which it delivered next day, on 24 March? What miracle is that? I might make a mistake on the dates or have been misinformed. I'm sorry to have to apologize right now if something has been wrong. But please, Minister, make this clear to us, because we will shortly be called upon to vote and we must have information. I say again: On March 23rd, a company was assigned, without a competition, to do a specific job and the delivery was delivered the next day. And we read that this company, which delivered this study, does not take responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the information and states that no primary data has been collected, but for collecting published data from ‘FRAPORT’ and various other companies and mainly from the GOI. These are all issues that cannot be overcome in this way. They must be answered. The issues we have raised in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the report from the General Accounting Office of the State must also be answered. The Deputy Minister is missing. But you are the Minister responsible here. Let's go to a report from the General Accounting Office of the State with several ambiguities, with a lot of variation and on some issues with a statement of loss of revenue, which have not been clarified what these amounts will be. It says in general and vaguely, "loss of revenues". I close, Minister, on the subject of objective values, an issue which concerns Greek society, concerns Greek citizens, mainly the middle-class, which you have said so much in election terms and concerns all these issues. I asked you in the Committee on Economic Affairs - because I am a good man and want dialogue both within the House and outside the House - something very simple. I saw your interview, on the same day, at the Athenian News Agency, where you said that, "We listen carefully to and consider any proposal that might strengthen this reform." I should like to accept all this because I, in particular on tax matters, have omitted from my political arguments what some of the extremes have said from the New Democracy - and even their names, I do not want to say again - for the twenty-nine 'unjust' SYRIZA taxes and that they would be abolished and all of this, but I would like to understand - which is why I have called you in the Committee on Economic Affairs - how will the House be involved in this debate, in this reform? Where is this dialogue going to take place? We proposed to the Committee on Economic Affairs that you set a 'comfortable' date and call social and productive bodies, call the Chamber of Economic Affairs - okay, you didn't invite them to discuss the Recovery Fund, but call them, at least for them - to call the PMIDA, to call bodies that have knowledge of the subject and to discuss the issue of the objective values, the HNVA and all that. You did a whole analysis, but you didn't give an answer. In view of this, the request is today to answer: will you take the initiative in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in plenary or elsewhere you want, to have a debate on the subject of the objective values in which tax burdens have been detached into medium-sized and popular districts and not just, why does it involve a number of other situations? We especially in the 2nd Piraeus have in poor, poor neighbourhoods, increases that reach 40%. And if the areas that were included in the town plan were studied, they were right to join, but we need to see what price they had before and what price they have now - we will see far greater increases. Please respond very much if you really mean that you want a dialogue and then answer whether this dialogue will take place and when. We have the parliamentary capacity to cause this, but we believe that on such simple issues there must be minimum understanding and minimal democratic sensitivity. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr Alexiadis, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of ministries of development and investment, infrastructure and transport, health and tourism, arrangements for productive activities and other provisions for strengthening development'. The reason is now the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr Kostas Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me to begin by way of exception. I feel a historical debt for a little mention of Andreas Papandreou, who for me was the enlightened teacher. It is now twenty-five years that he has left us, the man who has marked the newest political history of the country, the national leader, the strong governor, the progressive politician. Andreas inspired a people, united a faction that was always majority, made an incision in history by changing people's lives in this place. It has made a huge social change, strengthened the country, democracy, the economy, everything and brought prosperity to the people. They called him a folklore, called him a folklore. For decades they have tried and tried to rewrite the story, but twenty-five years later everyone still invokes it. No one has wondered how much more time-consuming and constantly present it is as long as it is removed from our time. He was the politician, who saw beyond the daytime, the temporary, the day after day. Twenty-five years later, it is good to remember, because the memory of the people and of the place is the one that leads things ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk very much about the bill in question today on the simple reason that I think we have discussed it in detail, and I just want to make a few comments on what I understood after the committee and what was followed. First, with regard to the international airport and the 130 million, I would like to remind you again that the PASOK Government of 1995 with Minister Costas Laliotis was renegotiated the contract, which the Mitsotakis Government had made, of the old Mitsotakis, and restored the majority of the public to the board and the possibility of extending the contract. This process was overturned by the 2016 SYRIZA Convention, which again gave the majority and extended the contract at such a price that, if the Competition Committee did not intervene, the State would lose 630m euros, as I said in my introduction to the Committee, bringing, for example, the statements made by Mr. Treasury and Mr. Voridis, where then they said that the criminal party or the benefit of the agreement should be considered, and if the case had to be referred back to justice. In fact, in the old contract, on the basis of the operational programme, its profitability would be escalated in 2022, so the State could make its choices from the beginning and win from this process. It's the typical example of how you protect public wealth. So instead, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will find an opportunity to recover part of the loss that you had denounced at the time, in essence you are giving money without any condition. Where are they going, what check? You could call for a speech on the critical decisions. You could demand an increase in public equity. You could finally set some conditions for protecting public money. You finally give the compensation without any warning. As far as the regional airports and FRAPORT and the EUR 177.9 million are concerned, we had reservations because we did not know the data. As we have heard, our reservations have been reinforced rather than answered, because the questions are clear. With strong documentation from the Legal Council of State, which declared ignorance of the economic model and had no knowledge and was not up-to-date, the Minister of Finance with signature refused the right to compensation the company for a period of time. And while this happened until the middle of 2021, which the Greek State refused compensation with the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance turns us into a contract to give the amount, calculated by the two audit firms, of EUR 177.9 million. We don't want to question the business of companies. Irrespective of the procedures and all of this, I believe that our subject is not there today. The question is why the government changed this attitude, how does it justify it? Here too, we do not have a substantial response. In addition, we do not understand the logic in this case, which is, in fact, a business. I do not understand the logic of full compensation, without any condition and condition. It is a logic that can't agree on us. It has the right or rather the duty of the government to strengthen companies, businesses and others, but through certain procedures, which are transparent and have specific criteria and measures. There is no measure here, it is an overall compensation for an estimated loss. So we have said the same thing to you in the case of AEGEAN. We asked that you bring us the model of LUFTHANSA and the German public. You didn't bring it, we don't know. But we know that there is clear intervention by the Greek government or rather participation in the company's course and its shares. We went to the completely opposite model and arrived here where we arrived. Minister, I would like to reiterate with emphasis what I have closed my position in committee. I fear that every time damage is done, socialised, the Greek people take it back and whenever profits are generated, it will benefit those who have been compensated for the damages. I do not understand that logic. And if it was a European, if you would like, support or European funding through some European procedures, I understand that. But for the money of the state budget and national resources we cannot come and agree to this process. I hope that by the end of the meeting today we will have some light on the basic benefits that the state will have from this process and from the Greek public and the Greek people so that we can finally place ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mrs Diamanto Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u18	The previous government of SYRIZA even went through a fast track process to privatise - concessions to fourteen gateways of entry of state-owned regional airports, ‘fillet’, in fact - to the consortium of the German ‘FRAPORT’ with the company of the Copelossos group. Of course, they had ensured that the concessionaire, namely the 'FRAPORT', was incorporated under Decree-Law No 2687/1953. What does that mean? It provides for privileges with the soula, such as full safeguarding of funds, with the exception of HNVIA, from municipal fees, from any requisition or forced expropriation operation. Furthermore, there are also other provisions, such as a free seven hundred firefighters, which are removed, are out of business planning - to serve, manage, provide services at the private airports of 'FRAPORT' and 'Eleftherios Venizelos'. You deprive them even of the anti-nuclear period and protection of the country since there is no replacement. Free services from the EAFRD and other services. Finally, capitalists will only receive profits, since even the public services are provided free of charge in the group. However, in the concession agreement for workers there was no commitment to the maintenance of civil aviation officials and those who agreed to work for the concessionaire would have to accept burdensome working conditions. Of course all of this was passed together by the then-individual opposition of New Democracy, which also came out of a communication, welcomed the signing of the contract, but also the accession of SYRIZA to its own logic after signing, as was said in the communication, an extremely profitable concession agreement, which the Government of New Democracy as a whole worked out. That's the bourgeois state. It's all the time, and now. Of course, there is in the contract and Article 30.4 where it stipulates that in the event of the concessionaire's revenue being reduced, i.e. 'FRATORT', due to a public liability, there is compensation paid by the State. So the capitalist company will never have a mess, because it's guaranteed. That's what you're doing. Indeed, the Minister presented to us during the debate in committee that he followed the 2015 contract and did better to manage it since, if he followed the contract, the Greek State would have to compensate "FRAPORT" in cash. But it doesn't do that. It follows the setaside with future revenues from the GOI and even caused us to weigh the two options, as if the revenues were not to be deprived of the budget. Minister, you have no complaint. He's helping. SYRIZA's backing up. After all, you have the same strategy. And his rapporteur's words were to be solved in the framework of the Convention, as he has already told us, but also in his position in the committee, regardless of whether it has been reserved. He said to us: "We are, anyway, in the positive direction with regard to this bill, because we are defending the very serious work we have done on both airports and ports and in many other areas" - he repeated them in one way - and he said, "we think that we must of course go ahead with this bill, but also the Ministry of Finance should respond to specific issues". You've answered some of them. But what are these matters? The letters and documents mainly in correspondence between the concessionaire of "FRAPORT" and the Greek State for the compensation bazaar contained in the privatisation contract that you voted with and with friends in 2016. Of course we do not underestimate them, but the main is the chain, very thick, of the concession of the fourteen airports in 2016. Because in the end you are simple and galantic when it comes to indemnification, to make up a loss of profits in business groups, such as "FRAPORT", gypsies, but until inhumanity, when it is intended to strengthen the survival of workers who threw them off like a lemonopoly of terrestrial aircraft service companies, collaborators of "FRAPORT". It's classic and unfair to your policy. And here for the record is the question tabled by the JRC's parliamentary group for months and has still not been answered. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Intensification of the anti-popular attack, the pitfall of billions of euros and privatizations to increase the profits of business groups. That's what you're doing. And when the profits fall, then there is a state budget, people's money to squeeze the groups to make up for losses, financial aid, exemptions from the annual concessions and set-offs contained in this bill - contract. But when they have crazy profits, then you're not asking for anything. Of course, exceptions and set-offs do not apply to popular households. On the contrary, you have long lists of thousands of first home auctions. And it is revealing the evidence published today by all the newspapers, the research elements of the Hellenic Statistical Office, where one out of five children in our country are subjected to the torture of material deprivation and are unable to meet these and their families basic needs in goods and services. These are the results of your policy. But what cannot be concealed is that, on the one hand, capitalist growth is the poverty of many, because that is capitalist barbarism, but especially in the areas of air transport infrastructure management and the intensity of the exploitation of tyre working hours, the rotation of mispaid work and unemployment, all together with the new labour law is at the disposal of business groups. That's how they win. As it cannot be hidden, and the fact that tourism is being opened this year with the well-known capital protocols, which create additional risks for workers, visitors, tourists and not just tourists. At the same time, the implementation of the FAFORT investment programme, following the privatisation of regional airports in 2015, had as fuel the low price for the concession, low wages and smuggled rights of workers in the construction sector, who carried out these projects, of course, new packages of direct and indirect funding paid by the people, such as this bill, i.e. the provocative exemption of the group from the concession fee for the period of three years, perhaps four years on the grounds of the pandemic. Eventually, during periods of pandemic and speculation, you compensate richly for the groups, not only "FRAFORT", as you do with today's bill, but also boat shipowners, toll dealers, "AEGEAN" and other mercenaries. At the same time, you make sure that their expenses are almost zero, since the workers are suspended and you don't care how they live, when you lower their wages or their contract ends much earlier and is not renewed. Of course, there are all these things at regional airports in these cases too. They follow the completion of the EUR 440 million investment project to upgrade the fourteen FRAPORT management airports, which has set up a series of major portals in the country. The truth is, thousands of regional airports are still on parole at the moment we're talking. It is mainly in aircraft groundhandling companies, with work contracts which are hostage for workers. They work for years at airports either at regional, these fourteen or at the "Athens International Airport S.A." and now it's literally in the air. This is also evidenced by their wages and by their insurance information. And yet, these workers have remained apart from any support mechanism. How do you guarantee the income of these workers, who have so far been without any income? Those of them who were in the Unemployment Fund who were in receipt of their subsidies are now over. They haven't worked this year at all. I am always talking about regional airports from March 2020 onwards, and they have not joined the support mechanism. Why don't you at least ensure their insurance cover with free medical care? Have all governments refused to become these workers for an indefinite period, since they have at least fifteen years of work and meet standing and constant needs in these companies? Nor have you made sure that they are part of the reasons for public responsibility, so that the redundancies of these workers, working under these conditions and taking place within March, are invalid, i.e. with continuously renewing fixed-term contracts, which are shown by their wages and badges, so that these workers too can return to work. I would like to stress that I am always talking about the terrestrial aircraft service companies, which are also working with the 'FRAPORT', and which we have repeatedly put forward and answered many times, we are not getting from the Ministry of Labour. Instead of giving solutions to such problems, you have merely, economically and privileged to support the groups, as is the case here in the case of the 'FRAPORT'. That is why we are voting against, as we voted against the concession - privatization, because it is against the people, but also against the country's security and interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou for keeping time. Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we want to make it clear that we have nothing against the 'FRAPORT', as is the case with the 'Athens International Airport S.A.' or Germany. They do their job as best they can. Our governments don't do their job by wasting the Greeks' money. In the one and only committee that has now been set up, instead of the usual four, obviously not to ask critical questions and not to call institutions, the current scandalous agreement, in our view, prepared by the GOI, which is part of the extravagant foreign office, which was founded in 2016, was a precondition for the third memorandum signed by all three parties of the Troika domestic, New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK or Change Movement as one says. The Supreme Court shall not be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. The conclusion of the agreement was made in collaboration with the concessionaires, while in Parliament it is simply for ratification by the party majority, hoping not by the opposition parties. We have naturally stressed that we are more generally against all these abusive claims, whereas we are committed to doing all we can to change the present conventions for the benefit of the public. Continuing, we believe that it is not the public's responsibility because of the pandemic, since this is an event of unfavourable or forceful violence against the definitions of the convention. In particular, the closure of airport operations is due to the pandemic launched by China under conditions that have not yet been clarified and also to the suspension of flights from the European Union. As regards the government's mistake in lockdown, with the lockdown, it could, for example, be allowed to fly by test, it is not about the months of high tourist traffic. While even if he did not make this mistake, the traffic in airports depends on other states. So why is it the responsibility of the Greek State? In particular, as regards the insurance of ‘FRAPORT’ in point 12, it argues that it is not compulsory for insurance, which is very important, since the same justification was applied to motorways. Fortunately, apart from the "MOREA" and the "ATTRIO" which were excluded because they had been insured, noting that for everything we say we will submit relevant documents in the Minutes, all together, because it is obviously too much. Based now on our reading of the fourteen airports contract in related references to section 24 and pages 170 to 180 - we like to be precise - and also Annex 16 with the types of minimum insurance in detail, we consider the losses to be covered by the 'FRAPORT' security obligations. The losses that the company had included in the ‘All risks’ category on page 394 in Annex 16, as well as ‘work disruption’ on page 395. Is it true that "FRAPORT" is insured but does it not want to claim the premiums because they are probably lower or have no reason to pay the sucklers? In addition to this, the Court of Auditors approved the contract of vindication. In addition, by this Agreement, the ‘FRAPORT GREECE’ claims compensation from the State of EUR 177,9 million, inter alia, through the non-payment to the GOI, of the annual concession fee for 2019 to 2021. Perhaps also in 2022, if passenger traffic is under 30.8 million, which will obviously happen. Furthermore, it says that there will be a next negotiation for 2022 and then, in good faith, with the Germans in paragraph 21, which creates many reservations. We would remind you here that last year it was said that the German company would claim compensation of 175 million before the financial year 2020 was closed, which at that time sounded outrageous. Does it not make sense to wonder about the coincidence of the present claim in the 'DLOITTE' calculations with that? Really what happened with the compromise agreements with the State, which were mentioned at the end of 2020, in which some of the payments of 22.9 million instead of any aid would be suspended for a limited period? We continued to do a little research to find out what happened in other countries with regard to airports. Starting in Frankfurt, the "FRAPORT AG S.A." had a 73% reduction, and was strengthened by the German Government through the "SURE". What we found is the support of all fifteen airports in the country with EUR 600 million, but of which 400 million concerned the three state-owned Berlin, Cologne and Munich. The rest, including Frankfurt, of 'FRAPORT', were given 200 million by Germany. Germany has given 200 million, whereas bankrupt Greece has given 177,9 million. Is that true? The companies "FRAPORT GREECE A" and "FRAPORT GREECE B" now, managed by the fourteen airports, had 71,4 % reduction in traffic in 2020 and 108,3 million losses, according to the financial statements of the mother's "FRAPORT AG" - there we did not find anything similar - without knowing how helpful they were from "SURE" like the airport of Athens, while they reduced their staff by thirty-five employees from four hundred sixty-nine in 2019. In addition, they benefited from the Civil Aviation Service’s facilities under Law 4757/2020, which was adopted in November 2020 for another independent authority, APA, with remote oversight of airports. We will submit to the Practical tables with the airports of 'FRAPORT' and their movement, with the percentage of FATOR' per airport and with various economic data, internationally, noting that it is a great impression that the government wants to compensate the company with 177,9 million for 2020 when its losses were 108.3 million. We give her 177,9 million when she was damaged only 108 million! The criterion was the promotion of the 'DELOITTE' for 2020 shown by the Minister to us at the Ministry with a source of 'FRAPORT' - if possible, the 'FRAPORT'? - because for some reason we do not understand it was forbidden to be filed in the House with all the documents? As indicated in the letter, the difference arises from the forecasts of profits before tax, interest and amortisation through a model formed by the ‘DELOITTE’, amounting to 187.825.004, 2020 and the realised ones. Did they really check the model of those who brought the contract? On the basis of our own calculations this is covered by the non-payment of fixed fees 2019-2023, of each of them 22.9 million, and the variable remuneration of 2019 of EUR 47.6 million - netting - and there is an unspecified balance of EUR 38 million. All this, of course, should be explained by the Minister to us, so that we can see how these 177,9 million are to be paid exactly. We must note here that at the 'FRAPORT GREECE A' and 'FRAPORT GREECE B' some EUR 440 million have been invested, of which EUR 280 million through the NRV Greece is entitled to the upgrades, so passenger charges will increase from EUR 13 to EUR 18.5 at all airports on the basis of the contract forecasts, while some of them have, of course, increased. Continuing, at the airport of Ljubljana, Slovenia, which controls FRAPORT by 100%, with a million seven hundred arrivals in 2019, the reduction was 83.3% in 2020, while it received 5 million euros of aid from the Slovenian Government. This amount is about 33% of the damage suffered by this airport in 2020, when Greece at around 165%. It was 33% in Slovenia and 165% in Greece. Why, really? Because we've become a debt colony and they impose on us what the Germans want with their governments in their hands? At the airports of Burgas and Varna in Bulgaria now, which are controlled by the 'FRAPORT' by 60%, while there was only one liquidity facility of 78%, an extension of EUR 4.4 million for an eighty-four days and only one year. That is to say, it will not be repeated in 2021. Of course, there was approval by the Commission. So the question that arises here is whether Greece has received a similar approval. Can you answer us, Minister? In Turkey now, despite the fact that the airport of Attalia, which is 51% controlled by the 'FRAPORT', had a 73% reduction in 2020, no aid was granted, although requested. The duration of the concession by two years until 2026 was merely extended and the annual compensation for 2020 for 2022 to 2024 has been postponed. Based on the financial statements of the Central ‘FRAPORT’, its loss in Antalya in 2020 was 64.5 million. It should be noted here that 2020 was granted a special authorisation from Germany for flights to four tourist areas in Turkey, although the country was a whole in a travel directive, i.e. it was banned, due to the pandemic, by substantiating the friendly relationship between the two states, which is clearly seen in all geopolitical issues. In view of the above, as well as the financial statements of the airport at Attalia, only one cash facility was provided for the annual compensation of 100 million for two to four years - an extension of the payment, the rent as we would say - and two years in addition to the contract, to cover the damage of 2020, which means, among other things, that ‘FRAPORT’ has a significant incentive to increase traffic to Antalya, in order to cover its losses, obviously at the expense of the Greek airports where ‘FRAPORT’ has no reason to increase traffic, since it will be compensated by a large amount of money. This means that we will indirectly be subsidising Turkey, which is in fact losing no money, but a further two years of using the airport, which would, anyway, be a loss without German tourism. In conclusion, then, the bill is scandalous from an economic, legal and moral point of view, whereas, as long as we assume that nothing suspected has occurred, it is the Greek Government's greatest proof of incompetence. If anything, we should demand a similar agreement with Slovenia, Bulgaria or Turkey. Under no circumstances should we pay almost twice as much as the damage, when Turkey and Bulgaria are paying absolutely nothing, and Slovenia just one third. We hope, however, that all opposition parties will vote against it, despite the fact that most of them ratified the scandalous agreement with 'FRAPORT' in 2016 - we will, of course, present an analysis of it in the Minutes - after fifty-five Members voted 'yes' and only thirty-six 'no'. If one were to say that it is imposed by the convention - the compensation - which was signed by the internal troika, which is extremely controversial, then it is even worse because it means that a crime has been jointly committed, which might be repeated constantly in the future. The pandemic isn't over. So we'll have similar situations in the future. The same logic applies, but without there being a similar contract with the "FRAPORT", for the "Athens International Airport S.A.", for which the bill mentions compensation of up to 130 million. When we asked the Minister's legal advisor "from how much?" he replied "from zero". If the House can ratify a law with such an unacceptable range, from 0 to 130 million. What are we signing? Isn't it a shame? Furthermore, the shareholders of the Athens International Airport are the excess fund with 25%, the TDIDE with 30%, the AviAlliance GmbH with 26.7% plus eight shares - German -, the AviAlliance Capital GmbH with 13.3% and the Copelosse family with 5% minus eight shares. The Copelus Group does not have 16.6% in "FRAPORT A" and "FRAPORT B" via the Cypriot company "SLENTEL", which certainly means something. In 2020, the airport had losses following a tax of EUR 41,9 million from profits of 174,4 million in 2019, with eight million passengers totalling twenty-five million five hundred thousand in 2019, while its movement so far is even worse than 2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need two more minutes, Mr. President. In what sense, then, does the government propose to compensate up to 130 million, in other words more than three times its losses? If that's not a scandal, then what is it? What Greek company has ever been compensated for three times its losses, such as the international airport, or almost twice the profits of before taxes, interest and depreciation, such as the ‘FRAPORT’? None at all. Why this distinction? Are the Greeks slaves? On the basis of the financial statements of 2020, however, it has been favoured by the ‘SURE’ programme. We do not know, of course, the exact amount, but the reduction in costs was EUR 47,743.438, and some of them may have been covered by 'SURE'. According to Article 31 of Law 2338/1995, this clearly appears to be a matter of force majeure, whereas extension of the contract to Law 4594/2019 does not seem to affect the original definition and treatment of force majeure. There is therefore no obligation to compensate the public authorities for the airport. So the debate is essentially about the government's intention to pay the 130 million it demands. In any event, both in the European Union and in the United States, when aid is granted, it is given as a consideration for share participation and it is also decided to limit the remuneration of high-paid staff as well as the income of shareholders until they are paid. There is no free meal anywhere unless something else has intervened, which we all certainly know about, and I mean what'something else' means. Finally, we think it is our duty to warn the government that if the bill is passed, it will at some point be confronted with justice, like everyone else involved, when the Greeks finally wake up and understand the crimes committed in our country. As we have said, all opposition parties must vote against it, because they have no reason to participate in the crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Mr Kriton Arsenis, a special speaker from Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, Members of Parliament and Members, it is really shocking that at the moment when the government opened up the country uncontrolledly to tourism in 2020, which led to this huge report of the coronary, because it has now been proved in practice that we have had little to do so, so as not to reduce the profits of tourism businesses - to come and take responsibility for all the citizens of the country for the financial loss of these companies, namely 'FRAPORT' by the krone. Because many of them will be mentioned and mentioned in the report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service, what does the House's Scientific Service say? That responsibility for the financial damage caused by the coronary is assumed by the public authority and therefore, if the public is responsible, the following amounts are justified. In other words, you take responsibility for the financial damage to the practice of any undertaking in the form of a coronary, since you do not accept the concept of such violence. Minister, what emerges from all the documents is that there was no obligation on Greece to compensate "FRAPORT" for a force majeure, except for the percentage in which the damage was due to policies in the country. What's the country's policy? The fact that he left a clear vineyard in Greece in tourism? The fact that he allowed everyone, after the multinational blackmail of tourism, to enter the country without any control? Is this the state option to compensate for the ‘FRAPORT’? How is it possible at the moment to make an accomplice to Parliament in an unprecedented service of interests against the Greek State? You are indebted to a company, 'FRAPORT', which has been given a loan from the highly indebted Greek banks, which has been redundant - these fourteen airports, makes its investments with the NSRF and almost does not put euros out of its pocket and now you are giving it, not only the Coronovirus allowances, which have been taken by other companies, not even its losses. You come and compensate for the predicted profits which the company itself and it alone predicted will have, as noted in the report 'DELOTE'. The report of the ‘DELOITTE’ that the estimates for the planned profits of ‘FRAPORT’ for 2020 are ‘FRAPORT’ and it will not be able to examine them. And you, these estimates, come to compensate them for for for evasive gains and you commit yourself to doing the same for 2021. It is self-evident to ask you at the moment for the legal opinion on which the acceptance of the public's responsibility for all the loss of the profits of 'FRAPORT' was based. What is the legal opinion? What public document do you have, a public service, suggesting that you take responsibility for force majeure? Give us a document, a public service document, which recommends that you take that responsibility, not only by administrative documents, by a public office by a lawyer. Show us your legal advice. But we know that this document does not exist. It's impressive, of course, SYRIZA's attitude. It is impressive, because I am sure there are SYRIZA officials and MPs who will disagree, but at the moment the SYRIZA central line is one, the vote in favour, and if not the vote, for the eyes of the world, the abstention, the 'parents' in these 177 million who give 'FRAPORT' and the 130 million in 'Eleftherios Venizelos'. And what did SYRIZA's representative say to us? "We don't disagree with 177 million, we just haven't seen all the documents." There was nothing strange about SYRIZA that Greece took the full responsibility for the evasive profits of "FRAPORT" in 2020. He'd like to see more details, but in general he agrees. The New Democracy blamed SYRIZA, saying it was the contract. The convention is indeed colonial, but you take it a step further. Of course, let's not forget that this contract in 2016, you and the Change Movement voted for it. What you are reinventing is the concept of business risk. For your business risk is the risk that a self-employed person, a small businessman or someone who has a medium-sized business, a risk of fighting inconsistently in the market and in the economy, when you give compensation, you pass bills and legislation which relieve all financial burdens of any major business, local or foreign, who buys our basic infrastructure. In AEGEAN 120 million, working capital and in practice. In the 40 million national roads, 'AEGEAN' 100 million, 'FRAPORT' and 'Eleftherios Venizelos' 300 million. Neither little nor much EUR 568 million is the account so far. And I'm saying so far, because you've created a precedent. You have, as a government, undertaken the financial costs for enterprises in the midst of a pandemic. And while the small and medium-sized ones are closed with the Banking Officer, you close them with repayable advances, you close them with the tax and insurance burdens, which you do not forgive them in the midst of a pandemic, in the big ones you only close the eye and say to them: "Come on, we will compensate you for the foregone profits you will set. Tell us how much do you think you lost 2020?’ Here's the big question: What hope does this place have with such a complex of government and officer counter-population? I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to thank him very much for the work he has done. In fact, you agree on Greek, you agree on mining, even though now multinational companies are leaving. You agree in the windy media to "NATURA", is also agreed by Mrs. Durous with Mr. Patoulis for the Phyllis, the perpetuation of crime, the burning of waste in cement, the Melissanides tanks, which SYRIZA was authorised in Drapetsona, for the port in Piera on ancient times, with a terrible deterioration in the lives of citizens, and in the first Piraeus and second Piraeus. Tell us, at last, what service of oligarchic interest do you disagree with? It is not just that Mera25 is voting against this reproach for damages, that the public should assume responsibility for the damage, for policies that it has not taken, for the damage of 'FRAPORT'. Other businesses will follow. It is time to discuss how these conventions will be abolished. We have to do this for the country. You have been tied backwards to this country and its economic future. This cannot go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr Arsenis, and especially for keeping time. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with some arguments that I have heard from the opposition parties and then I will enter the core of my position. My dear colleague and rapporteur of the Officerial Response has shown many that he likes to "explode" his cup for exactly three reasons. He's messed up what SYRIZA inherited. I'd prefer and I'd choose if we didn't dive in the past. If we dive in the past, I would like to point out: 'We will defend the public character of regional airports, because the sale of each infrastructure is neither progress nor development'. Alexis Tsipras, 15 January 2015. And then came the obsidian transformations, then came the regional airports agreements, which were signed in 2015, characterized by the press that are close to the idiosyncratic opposition as colonial. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The dear colleague of the Adviser's office said something about taxes, that we are badly accusing the previous government of the twenty-nine taxes and what we have done, if I understand. You always give me a golden opportunity to show both the committee and the plenary, as I did today at the Ministerial Council, what we have done in less than two years, the longest time of which has been within an unprecedented health crisis. I would like to explain that the permanent reductions in taxes which the previous government did not make. Reduction of HOPI by 22%. Reduction of the tax rate on natural persons, in the lower income ranges from 22% to 9% and increase the tax rate for each child. Reduction of the profit tax rate for all enterprises from 28% to 22%. Mr Colleagues, this also concerns very small businesses. Reduction of the tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. Reduction of the tax advance on natural persons engaged in business from 100% to 55%. Reduction of the tax advance on legal persons and legal entities from 100% to 80%, and especially this year at 70%. Reduction of insurance contributions, permanent, by 1%. Low rate of tax for all agricultural schemes 10%. And now, with the agreement of both the institutions and the Eurogroup, Mr President, the permanentisation of the reduced 30% VAT on five Greek islands: Kos, Leros, Lesvos, Samos and Chios, as long as the asylum seekers' structures in them are available. These are permanent tax reductions. We did more, though. Suspension of the payment of a special solidarity contribution to the private sector for 2021 and 2022. A further reduction by three percentage points of private sector employees’ insurance contributions for 2021 and 2022. Reduction of VAT on transfers, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, cinemas and theatrical performances for a period of time. Reduction of VAT in the tourist package. These are non-permanent tax reductions, which we hope will be in the budget area that we are going to create, and that will also be permanent. And we didn't stop at them either. We also granted tax incentives for investment. Reduction by 50% of the tax rate for start-ups for the first three years of operation. Adopt a 40% tax deduction for costs related to the reception of services for energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. Suspension of VAT on new buildings. Suspension of real estate gains tax for three years. Formation of a special scheme for the taxation of income from foreigners who make tax homes in Greece. My dear colleague, Mr Papadimitriou, has asked a parliamentary question, to which I could not answer Friday because I was absent from Greece, but you will soon have specific information for that too. That is what we have done in less than two years, in order to reduce, in fact, the twenty-nine new taxes of the previous government. Thirdly, you ask this government and this Minister, who has never refused it. You requested information last week on the facts of the 'FRAPORT' and you had it. You said, 'but the political leadership was missing'. The political leadership was missing, because I had explained that last week I had to be outside Greece. I had Eurogroup and ECOFIN. Your colleagues from the other parties have asked for the communication to be made earlier, so that they can have a comfortable time to study the evidence and we have chosen what other opposition parties have asked for. I didn't deny anything of that. I confirm that the representative from your party has sat most of the time than any other party representative, indeed, in order to study the evidence in depth. Anything you wanted to know about banks or the banking system you had and you will generally have full transparency of all the elements from the Ministry of Finance's political leadership, in contrast to what the previous government did, because I think you have increased objective values, but you have not informed Parliament. There was a member of the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, who did not answer any parliamentary questions for two years. He kept pleading a permanent coma. We inform and have full transparency on what is signed. Mr Colleagues, the figures have therefore been transparently taken into account. Anyone who wants to hide something doesn't figure it out in a deal hides them. We've got it in the deal. The auditing of the audit has been carried out on the basis of the methodology laid down in the course of its professional activity and in this capacity it has given a responsible opinion. The report of the General Accounting Office of the State is clear and the final summary is entitled ‘The Opinion of the Audit’ and is not a summary of the Ministry of Finance or of the GOI. Mr. Colleague of the Change Movement, the PWN documents you mention are the documents used in the process of technical dispute resolution. They are the claims of the State’s Legal Adviser with the then established pre-arbitration situation. Because we're perfectly transparent, we shared all this with you. The amount of compensation shall be the amount resulting from the implementation of the 2015 Convention. Mr Villardo, I am passing a few words such as 'dream', 'dream','scandal' and all that. Because I'm just going to testify to you, showing that the evidence you said you'd testify, but you haven't testified, was out of place and time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u25	There he is. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u26	I'll testify the evidence. I will submit the European Commission's official report, according to which compensation to airports in Germany is EUR 1.36 billion. Mr. Villardo, I'm filing them for you to be informed. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Court of Auditors has ruled that agreements which apply a contract which has already been audited are evaded, so it is unjustified. That's an explicit report. The company shall be compensated by applying the concession contract. The Greek State has committed itself to this since 2015 and you can do whatever scenarios you want, whatever economic analysis you want yourself. The Greek State, however, has to implement its commitments. As far as you are concerned, Mr MERA25, who asked why we did not invoke a force majeure and how that was the right choice. On 27 March 2020, by letter, the 'FRAPORT' to my office calls on us to go with a force majeure, that is, what you are asking for. And you're saying we didn't negotiate? Do you represent the interests of "FRAPORT" here and you don't know that? This is the reality as regards what the company asked for and we will now see what we have done. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today - and I think I have given you answers on all the open issues - there will be additional analyses in my place - the draft law of the Ministry of Finance on the financial support for concessionaires of the Athens International Airport and of the 14 Aegean, Crete, mainland Greece and Ionian airports, due to the restrictive measures taken to tackle the Koronovius pandemic in the year 2020. This bill is the government's balanced and proportionate response to the undeniable impact, which had the necessary measures to deal with the recent conditions created by the pandemic in the operation of airports. The imperative nature of the provisions introduced by this draft law is clearly obvious. These are key infrastructures in the country, whose well-functioning function is inextricably linked to normal living in the areas they serve and, secondly, they are specific infrastructures which have suffered a particularly heavy blow from the outbreak of the health crisis and the resulting limitations on the movement of aircraft and passengers. Appropriate forecasts of economic strengthening of the aviation space for both air transport companies and airport infrastructure have received other governments around the world in diverse ways, in the form of loans or participation in recapitalisation or exemption, for example from future tax obligations. For example, as I said before to have an image and to prove that we do not waste the money of the Greeks, as I heard, Germany has provided EUR 1.3 billion in the form of direct grant to its airport managers, while only recently, in March 2021, Finland gave EUR 350 million to the managing company of twenty of an airport in the country and at the end of April, I told you when we were talking about 'AGEAN', Portugal provided additional EUR 452 million to the airline 'TAP', after some billions it had given in 2020. And then a number of parties were criticised for what we give 'Aegean'. A further ECU 452 million was allocated to Portugal in April 2021. I would say more than obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that governments around the world are rushing to help support these key structures on which travel and, in general, business and trade are based. This fact is, moreover, reflected in a recent large study, about a hundred pages, in April of 2021 of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which I am putting at your disposal, by tabling it in the Minutes. It is all the aid that has been given worldwide to airlines and airports. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would say that it is even more obvious that each country is rushing to support the highly heavy industry. And as we all know in this Chamber, Greek tourism is inextricably linked to the unsolved and smooth operation of the air transport and airport sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the fourteen regional airports, the financial support for the concessionaires is being promoted, through the ratification of the agreement, which was concluded under the concession agreements of 2015 - which we supported, because the New Democracy's prolongation has continued and therefore does not make obsolete transformations - between the TEAD, the companies and the Greek public. This provision is deemed necessary because the company suffered a very significant loss of revenue as a result of the huge reduction in passenger traffic. In the case of airports managed by the company ‘FRAPORT’, passenger traffic was limited to 70,5% in relation to the corresponding period of 2019 and 72,1 % in relation to the forecasts of the economic model, as reflected and applied in accordance with the concession agreement of 2015. According to the review of the financial consequences of the pandemic at the fourteen regional airports in Greece carried out by a private company on behalf of HSE, the profits realised before tax, interest and depreciation of 2020 are less than the forecasts of the economic profit model of around EUR 178 million. This is the case for compensation under the 2015 concession, as the measures that the Government had to take to deal with the koruna pandemic fall within the sphere of risks to the Greek State. However, and here is an important element, I think, with the agreement reached with the company, additional objectives are achieved at the same time: firstly, the amount of compensation can reach a maximum of EUR 178 million, resulting in application of the 2015 concession agreement, but at the same time, it may be less. This is because by this agreement the risk from the incomplete recovery of passenger traffic is borne by the company and not by the Greek State. I'll be more specific. If passenger traffic and revenues of the company fully recover in 2021, then the compensation received for 2020 may not exceed EUR 178 million, agreed as compensation under the 2015 concession. However, if passenger traffic and the company’s revenues do not fully recover in 2021, the compensation received for 2020 is expected to be less than EUR 178 million. This is due to the fact that the variable concession fee, taking into account and fixed annual fees, netting the compensation obligation, will not fully cover the amount of EUR 178 million. Secondly, regardless of the recovery or not of the passenger traffic mentioned above, the concessionaire renounces any further claim regarding the loss of revenue, damages to project delays and any other loss suffered as a result of measures addressing the pandemic and its consequences in 2020. Thirdly - because I have heard what else - the amount of compensation under the 2015 concession is not paid in cash by the Greek State, as provided for in the 2015 contract, but is set by netting off debts of the concessionaire to the HSE. I repeat, there is no money coming out of the state budget as the 2015 Convention said, but there is a set-aside with liabilities due to payments to the GOI. In this way, they best defend, in spite of the 2015 Convention, public finances in a particularly difficult period of increased requirements. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need five to six more minutes. The basis of the decision is that when regional airports operate, they operate in normality, they make a significant contribution to public finances and to the country's economy. It should not be overlooked that in 2017 the Greek State received EUR 1,234 billion from the concession of airports, as well as that infrastructure investments amounting to EUR 440 million were completed - in the inauguration that took place in Thessaloniki, as I know because I was present, it was also a representative of the Anti-Population Officer - investment projects carried out with the use of private resources and which have public function. In particular, in the context of the management and operation of the fourteen airports, the ‘FRAPORT’ carried out an integrated plan for their development, including direct and in-depth work and infrastructure development at airports, which contribute decisively to increasing the number of passengers and improving their travel experience. This investment was launched in April 2017, along with the start of the concession for the management and development of eleven airports on islands and three on mainland Greece. These operations did not stop during the summer months during the first three years of high passenger traffic, while they continued in the midst of the pandemic, ultimately overcoming the difficulties and huge obstacles that have arisen. Finally, the projects at all fourteen airports were completed in January 2021, earlier than the contractual obligation set for April 2021. Overall, the impact of the agreement with the 'FRAPORT' on the GDP of the country only exceeded the EUR 300 million in the first year. It doubled employment and will significantly increase the traffic of visitors to very important Greek tourist destinations. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the International Airport of Athens, financial aid is granted to the company for the recovery directly related to the pandemic of the Coronal damage suffered in the year 2020. This amount may be up to EUR 130 million and shall be granted as follows: in the form of a direct grant up to EUR 51,6 million and in the form of a netting of payment obligations for the grant of allowances, in accordance with the airport development agreement, up to EUR 78,4 million for 2020, 2021 and 2022. The netting of both a year and a total shall not exceed those amounts. In the event that the remuneration payable is higher for one of the above years, the ‘Athens International Airport’ shall be liable to pay the excess amount for that year. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] In the case of the ‘Athens International Airport’, the solution was chosen and agreed, as far as possible, by offsetting the company’s payment obligations vis-à-vis the direct grant again in view of the optimum use and service of public finances. It is noted that the amount of aid is subject to the approval of the European Commission for the financial year 2020, in which the period for which the aid is authorised and the exact amount thereof will be determined. It is important to stress that, according to a study by IOBE in November 2018, the operation of the economic system of “Athens International Airport” is estimated to contribute EUR 3,4 billion in GDP terms in 2017, while in terms of travel receipts it is estimated that it contributed EUR 2,9 billion in 2017, a size corresponding to 20% of the country’s total travel receipts. In fact, the ‘Athens International Airport’, in response to its crucial role as operating and managing a strategic infrastructure for the country, continued the operation of the airport throughout 2020, ensuring the service of the minimum remaining commercial air traffic as well as national needs in the context of the crisis. However, continuing to operate at the same time as almost universal revenue shortages has a particularly prejudicial impact on the company’s business viability and job maintenance. The ‘Athens International Airport’ is required to submit until 31/12-2021 to the competent services of the Ministry of Finance and Infrastructure and Transport a full report on the operational revenues and expenses associated with the activity of the company for the period of financial aid certified by an independent company in order to confirm that the company’s environment does not exist. If the loss identified falls short of the amount of authorised financial aid, then no netting shall take place for the excess amount for the following years. Where there is still an excess amount for which payment or offsetting has already been made, this shall be recovered. The joint decision of the Ministers for Finance and Infrastructure and of Transport shall define the calibration procedure for over-excessive financial support of the company, the procedure and the recovery rate of over-excessed financial aid for the Greek State, the procedure for its confirmation in the event of a non-performing return, the service responsible for the above actions and any other necessary for the implementation of this detail. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the Ministry of Finance and overall the Government actively provide their fair and proportionate assistance to the country's strategic infrastructures, preventing consequences with significant extensions, economic and social, which directly and indirectly affect the entire population of the country, especially air transport workers, workers in the wider tourism sector, as well as citizens who make use of these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak. There has been falsification of my words by the Minister and I would like to make a correction under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u29	It can't be done. No falsification. I heard what he told you. There was no falsification. There's not even any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u30	I would like to substantiate the falsification of the so-called ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u31	No, Mr. Comrade. And Mr. Villardus beside you has complaints. I heard what the Minister said. There's no way I can give you the floor. Anything you want to tell your parliamentary representative. I'd like to make a little briefings. I will now give the floor to Mr Michael Katrin, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Three Members will then speak to Mr Amanatidis, Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Loverdos from the Change Movement and then ask him for the floor - and the Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my position before I begin to make a brief reference on the occasion of today's 25-five years since Andreas Papandreou left. In the very critical days that we live the memory of Andreas Papandreou remains alive for the people who lived for him, loved him and honored him, precious shield and consolation for millions of Greeks in the heart and soul of whom he spoke. The man who managed to unite the Greeks and to guarantee democratic freedoms. The politician who gave pride, dignity and opportunities to the non-preferentials whom he has consistently served and whose fate has changed. The leader who knew to fight against even international correlations and expressed the genuine patriotism based on national independence, determination and national unity. As much as some are trying to erase history and slander Andreas Papandreou their efforts fall into the void, because Andreas Papandreou spoke with history and his periods of rule are a point of reference for all citizens even for those who did not vote for it. His ideas, struggles and work are a valuable asset for us, but also a source of inspiration in a politically anhydrous and hard times. PASOK and the Change Movement were and will be the core of the new change that the country needs through a new social contract with the social forces of labour and production for a state free of control of the economic oligarchy, as he himself said. And I would like to link my position to the remembrance of Andreas Papandreou with the recent table, which saw the light of publicity, of ELSTAT, which recorded an increase in the index of social inequality, which he fought with PASOK and Andreas Papandreou, in order to alleviate social inequalities. According to this report, the deprivation of basic goods and services concerns not only low incomes, but also part of the non-poor population with 49.5% of non-poor households to declare inability to cover exceptional, but necessary expenditure under 400 euros. Over the last 12 months one in five households has been saying that its income has fallen, while only 5.5% have been increasing, and this year the GDP per capita has fallen to 64% compared to the European average in a steady downward trend in recent years. As I refer to ELSTAT's data, I could not, ladies and gentlemen, avoid temptation and ask for its opinion and the Government's opinion on the position of Andreas Georgios in the independent authority, which supervises the European Statistical System by the European Parliament, of man, who, for eleven years, has been afflicted by the accusation that he has raised the deficits of the five-year-old Karamanlis and has led the country to the memorials and despite the innocent speeches of the Board of Appeals, an appeal has been made three times by Arion Igos, which has been unprecedented for the country's judicial times. It is noteworthy indeed that forty-six Members voted in favour, two against and eight abstained in the committee involving a New Democracy MEP, a SYRIZA MEP and a member of the Communist Party. It would therefore be interesting to hear the view of the Government, but also of the New Democracy, of this choice that I think it justifies a man who has done his job very simply, has captured the vile governance of the five-year Karamanlis and has been on the political target and not just cycles for more than ten years indicted unfairly. And since the Minister mentioned before the tax policy elements, which he said were also quoted to the Ministerial Council with a number of options, which demonstrate the government's friendly approach to businesses and the direction of reducing taxation is of interest to look at the elements announced in the latest IMD report by Switzerland on the competitiveness of the Greek economy, where among sixty-four countries Greece is sixty-seventh in terms of debt, fifty-seventh in terms of credit rating and sixty-sixth in terms of the sixty-four countries - I say again, because Mr Georgiadis was celebrating, sixty-third in terms of fixed capital investments. In the area of government efficiency, which must be looked at by government officials in order to look at themselves in the mirror and to ask and answer whether they are doing well, Greece remains stagnant in 2020 in the fiftyth second place, such as in 2019. In tax policy - and here I come to link with what the Minister said - which is an indicator of the efficiency of government in Greece is the first sixty-four countries. I would remind you that, based on the Tax Foundation index in the Bank of Greece's interim report, our country remains in the 20th place of tax policy and the assessment of IMD staff, the third weakest point of the country is the tax regime. That is what I think, Minister, should give you some thought in relation to what you have been electorally said that you will do with fiscal policy and with regard to what your political opponents do, but the markets for the effectiveness of the measures in relation to tax policy. Indeed, the recommendations - and it is noteworthy to mention - mention the introduction of measures to reduce the financial consequences of the crisis, but also the facilitation of access for businesses to finance, which is also mentioned in the previous financial stability report of the Bank of Greece, which says in particular that financing to businesses could be stronger given the liquidity conditions of the banks. And since we are talking about the bill in which overall public contribution will be slightly above EUR 300 million, it may also be accidental, that, based on your recent communication on increasing the objective values, you seek additional revenues, ranging from EUR 200 to EUR 250 million per year, about what is currently under the contract directly or indirectly given to support regional airports and the "International Airport of Athens". The increase in objective values brings about twenty real estate taxes, but at the same time - and here is the important one - the risk of losing a number of many social benefits is visible: minimum guaranteed income, since the value of the total must not exceed EUR 150,000 to receive this allowance, so the number of beneficiaries will change. PPC's social invoice, where total value must not exceed EUR 180,000. A housing allowance with a loss for the beneficiary if it exceeds the limit of EUR 180,000, up to EUR 2,200 per year. And heating allowance with a maximum of 130,000 euros, with losses of up to 650 euros a year. The government says that they will finally pay the owners in areas that are subject to tax and have luxurious dwellings and properties. I'll take it. But will you, Minister, go ahead in redeployment of the assets so that a series of social benefits will not be lost that go to our weak fellow citizens? In addition, a parallel consequence of the increase of objective is an increase in the value of proprietary ownership, resulting in an increase in presumptions. Many will see that their income is no longer sufficient to cover the new level of ownership by applying the new objective values. Even the out-of-court regulation mechanism, which has been advertised so much by the Government, is affected, since for the same property the instalment to be paid by the debtor is higher in 2022 than in 2021, since the amount paid by the debtor cannot be less than the objective value of the property. In addition, we will have an increase of hundreds of thousands of additional tax debtors due to this increase. I therefore think that a number of our fellow citizens will see the adverse effects of this increase in objective values. As far as the bill is concerned, although our rapporteur, Costas Scandalidis, in detail and in detail, no one disputes that there are very large losses in all sectors of the economy, and obviously air transport has been affected with a multi-level impact on tourism, employment, trade and, more generally, on the Greek economy. Mr Spanakis has referred to this from New Democracy. On the basis of the recent Eurocontrol report, three hundred and fifty thousand flights less in 2020. In fact, he estimated that only in 2024 will the movement return to 2019 levels, given that we will have a satisfactory number of vaccinations and will not have a dynamic reappearance of the pandemic in the next period. Here, therefore, is the issue of the measures to support all air carriers involved. I've told the House again, Minister. I'm saying it today. I think that there was no uniform treatment for air transport companies. The Eurocontrol report on 'AEGEAN' says it makes two and thirty-four flights a day. This is a company that also received loans from the Guarantee Fund and has recently been supported by a law passed in the House. At the same time, another Greek company, the SKY EXPRESS, with half the flights a day, but not a hundred seventeen - very significant numbers - was not approved by the Guarantee Fund in the first phase at least, despite the fact that it met the conditions and had a credit rating. I also do not know whether there is any intention of you to support either this company or all the other companies - there are similar requests - that are active in air transport and have been affected. The way in which the government chooses, and the fact that it does not support or allow all companies to benefit, as you have said, and I have retained it, Mr Minister, 'the government's fair and proportionate aid' - I think we are also impressed by the convenience and the way in which you are going to help without calculations and by a procedure that should be more transparent from the outset. You did not deposit relevant documents. Only after the protests took place was this meeting, confirming the findings on the handling. What is it, anyway? Is it a personal record of private companies, the studies and economic models with which compensation is documented, which are now coming for ratification in Parliament? You remember what happened with the Ministry of Education contract with 'CISCO'. I hope that this is not the case. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] The State also accepts responsibility that it may not have and may not meet the company’s request to compensate it, with assumptions, methods and calculations, which correspond to the deviations from the forecasts of the notorious economic model, which cannot be confirmed after it was known after it was updated. And while the Government initially challenged the fact that there was a fact, public responsibilities, which are prerequisites for the implementation of the compensation clause, the case was nevertheless brought to the Technical Dispute Resolution Committee, despite the negative response of the State’s Legal Board of Inadmissibility to the notification of force majeure and that pandemic is not a fact of public responsibility. And an important element in the negative response of the Law Council of the State is the argument that the economic model is not binding, that it was not submitted for approval by the State and could therefore not be considered. Then, of course, there was agreement and full acceptance of the company's terms and claims for compensation with an amount that is quite high. I said before that estimates by Eurocontrol talk about a gradual reintroduction in 2024 at 2019 levels, so it is an open possibility, not only in 2021, but in 2022 and in the coming years there is a similar type of compensation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u33	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u34	... there is no spectacular improvement in air transport traffic, despite positive indications for the airports of Rhodes, Kos, Mykonos and Santorini. I shall conclude, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the fair and proportionate assistance which the government claims should concern all the companies affected by the consequences of the coronary. It is something that the next time, when the suspension measures from the banks, the tax and the insurance funds are to be lifted and any support measures by the government will be a crucial issue for the survival of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. And that will be the political valuation by us and not only by businesses and stakeholders, whether the government has been able to apply fair and proportionate support measures for all companies and has been treated in specific sectors since the beginning of the pandemic, always under the pressure of a number of factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr. George Amanatidis, Cosanitis, from New Democracy, is called in Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. You simply said last week about another colleague from Patras and you did not say 'from the beautiful Kosani'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u37	The beautiful Kozani, with the Serbs, with the lake, with Ptolemais, with the Vlast. Now it's nice in Vlasty. Whoever hasn't gone to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to analyse a few further elements, but the Minister has, as always, covered me in detail. Starting to say that with this draft law we are implementing what we have done so far for the economy and society, for the other sectors. We support the companies, but we also support the workers in it. At the same time, we support, and it is true, the economic activities that are directed around the air transport sector. First of all, one is a given that over the previous period, the long-term restrictions have had a negative effect on the movement of passengers with aircraft and therefore this has led to the air travel almost being forbidden and thus the burden on these companies. With this draft law we are trying, we want, we seek to restore the damage to these companies because of the limitations which the Greek State has imposed - I repeat - and then continue to operate properly, by strengthening tourism and transport. There is no discreet treatment because, as I said earlier, the economy and society as a whole. I begin with the first article in which the company "Fraport Regional Airports of Greece A" is aided and B respectively. And that's why? Why are we applying the provision in the contract which had been signed where it actually says that if public responsibility is to stop the company's activity for a period of three months or more? And when we say compensation, because of the loss of revenue, we certainly mean the net profits of these companies. As a result of the measures taken by the pandemic, the concept of ‘public liability’ is now in place and therefore it is agreed that the compensation should be paid to that company. As the Minister said, this compensation is not given in cash, i.e. it does not disburse the State budget money, but in substance the sums that the company should pay for the concession to the Greek State are being reduced. The figures were reported. I do not need to say them any more, and in fact they are the amounts of profits before taxes, interest and depreciation for the year 2020. Therefore, there is a certain way of calculating the amounts. I would also like to say why it is important to support the air transport industry and these companies. It is important because if we consider that the impact on the GDP of the country since its operation has only exceeded EUR 300 million a year. They were told by the Minister of Numbers like EUR 3.4 billion, added to the country's GDP, EUR 2.9 million, which corresponds to the tourist movement and so on, and I will not analyse them. Under Article 2, the company ‘Athens International Airport’ is granted financial aid. This is where Article 107 of the Treaty of European Union applies to specific cases or regions. The conditions for the application of this Article shall be fulfilled. And to say that the Athens International Airport company continued its operation, which means that it has continued to bear the fixed, flexible costs, and therefore suffocation conditions have been created for the company and should be supported. It did not, of course, have, almost universally in its actions and operation, and a huge gap arises and the need to strengthen it to keep the staff and support the country's tourism movement. For the maximum of 130 million, the Minister referred to. Although it has been heard that they are huge sums, I too should add to what has been said in Portugal, respectively, the amounts allocated to the other states of Germany, Belgium, Romania, Bulgaria, etc. In this way, we do not support the company "Athens International Airport", but let me say that we support the Greek economy and, indirectly, the Greek society, because there are workers in these companies and companies. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point you will either say a lot of things because you have to analyse the figures or you have to speak at policy level. I am content with what you have heard earlier and would like to say that through a systematic work, carried out by the government and, of course, by the cooperative relationship with the citizens and professionals, we have encouraged the continuation of the trust in the financial markets to our country - we live every day when we come to the markets - the continuation of the trust of the citizens of Europe, the world to our country for the security conditions it can offer, the strengthening of our country's image as a country for work and tourism, the emergence of our country's heritage and the emergence of our country as an area of green and sustainable development. In view of the above, it is expected that the arrangements, which we believe will be adopted, will strengthen the attractiveness which will be reflected by increased visibility in our region. At this time, which we wish to show that our infrastructures will be ready to serve the demand for transport services, the need to vote in favour of this draft law is inevitable and an action that should be done. It is regulations that I think most, all of us, should agree on why the expected effects of this funding will be multiplier in employment, in the national economy and in strengthening our country in the international area. With these considerations, as is normal, I am voting in favour of this draft law and thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u39	Be well, Mr. Amanatidis. Thank you, too. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to begin by saying that everything you have announced to us a moment ago and often communicates that you are doing everything for everyone, in no case is for everyone. You take the very high incomes and the very high assets, at the expense of the middle-class, which you deceived in the 2019 elections. How do you do all this? You are doing it because you found the country outside of memorials, the debt regulated, the country having come out on the markets, the funds full and even a pillow to sleep alone with 37 billion. You did not receive a country as we handed it over to us in January 2015, with permit funds. We hardly paid wages and pensions in February 2015. Also, two years now the Stability Pact of the euro area countries is suspended and will probably continue in 2022. So don't tell us about the tax reductions you have made and the tax exemptions on very high incomes that have been done on their own and with your own actions. Let's see the bill now. Today we are discussing a bill, which concerns strengthening a major transport pillar and hence the economy. I think that all parties - so it was heard at least here - regardless of their final position have asked for more transparency for the Greek people's money. We, for our part, asked for the contents of the letters between the company and the Greek State, as well as the results of the study of "DELOITTE". Our rapporteur, Alexiadis, has said so too. We understand that there are needs to be met, but these must be done in full transparency, as citizens will be invited to pay for these payments. Also, as the Deputy Minister of Finance says here, all this will be paid back by taxpayers. Therefore, whatever decision it takes will have to be taken, since they will be in charge of which these taxpayers, as you say, will have to at least take care of the workers and avoid phenomena which we have seen at the beginning of the pandemic with redundancies and, indeed, via sms. It must be stressed that it is not panacea that the government is trying to place all responsibility on the SYRIZA government. The Minister let it be understood that what is being done stems from the 2015 concession contract. No one finds that there is a continuation on such issues as public procurement, but the way in which it is handled is not stable. The rapporteur also stressed this in his speech. That is why we are calling for transparency and clear information. There is no doubt that after pandemic dystopia economic activity has been irreparablely affected. Unfortunately, however, the government seems to be one of ones. We are therefore discussing the bill which, in the view of the Government, is imperative. But let us see what happens with the rest of the business. The Minister will, of course, tell us the numbers here. He'll list backups, report the Recovery Fund and go ahead and say. The picture, however, is different for anyone on the market. There is enormous insecurity for the future of enterprises, for the maintenance of jobs, and for maintaining the income of citizens. At the same time, ELSTAT’s latest data on tourism and catering operations show a huge loss of turnover exceeding EUR 650 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared to that of 2020. Here I would also like to mention the problems that have arisen with the payments of the beneficiaries of the programmes of the regions through the ESDP. Those who have lost insurance or tax information within the pandemic cannot disburse, even those who are entitled to support from the multi-advertised NRP focus programme have not received a single euro at the same time. And that's what I imagine will be the same. Let the Minister answer us, if he wishes, in his place at the close. There are also many enterprises excluded from the respective programme for tourism. They are typical examples of accumulated debt and liquidity problems for citizens and businesses. We live an unprecedented pandemic attack on rights and data. The latest Hatzidakis - Mitsotakis Act affects the social majority. It directly reduces the incomes of the citizens, condemns the young people of this country to a future of permanent precariousness. In addition, along with the opening up of economic activity, we have the application of the new bankruptcy code while lifting the protection of the first residence. Professionals, households, workers are now faced with new debts, without protection and with the liquidation of property hanging above them. Every day the heavy political agenda of your government is unfolded. Your government refuses to accept proposals from the opposition, refuses to discuss the management of the pandemic debt. We have tabled our own proposal. The permanent response of the financial staff is the Recovery Fund, which, of course, was drawn up without consultation and, obviously, is not about the social majority affected by both the pandemic and the government plan. Unfortunately, it seems your one-sidedness. You don't work for everyone. You work on the basis of the restructuring of the economy and the shrinking of the incomes of many. And, respectively, work for reverse redistribution to the high income scales. This bill may be necessary as a government, but it is even more necessary to support the real economy and all citizens after pandemic. You need to see the Greek citizens' responses to the recent OECD study on the impact of pandemic on citizens' finances. There about 80% replied that more state intervention is needed. You promote state intervention, but in what way? You promote it for deregulation. Once again, then, we invite you to stop this deregulation. We will be next to the people who suffocate, we will be in society, we will be with them, and we will fight to prevent you, because that is the only way to alleviate social inequalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiu. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement, which is elected in the 2nd North Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, when such matters, such as today, come to the House, to the PASOK, to the Change Movement, we are pleased to learn from our memory relatively recent or recent events and many of what are said in this House and outside the House to put them in the minds of public opinion, that is to say, the citizens who listen to what is in the Chamber, in order that the citizen who weighs, the observatory citizen, can understand what he has to do with whom. What a fine subject today, especially the fourteen airports and their concessionaire A, B'FRAPORT' and fourteen airports. I don't have a picture of all fourteen. But I have a picture of some of them. Before, however, I transfer my experience to the National Representation, I consider it appropriate to remind those and those who said that they will not allow the concession process to be completed, that they will lie down on the runways to prevent the landing and take-off of aircraft, and that they will, of course, do things that they did not do when they became government. And then we were told that by weeping the relevant conventions, which Parliament judged as they were, and each party did what it did at the National Representation - we have so far been consistent - members of the government at the time of the concession, members of the National Representation as a party and at the time, signed by Mr Spirtzi - I do not see him in the Chamber. What has happened since? What is the criterion on which we judge not the inconsistencies, which is the rule in recent years of the Parliament, but at least the correctness of the choice in 2013, of the Samara - Venizelos Government? It is how the process of these fourteen airports has evolved. Is it a lifting? I am not in a position to say exactly, ladies and gentlemen, because I have the contractual obligations one by one for all airports. It is the government's duty to tell us and to inform us, too, that we do the proper control. As far as I am concerned, with the images I have from Chania airport, which I travelled in December 2020 and Samos, which travelled my partner yesterday - they are the most recent ones I have, noteworthy that we have had insensitive lockdowns - I can assure you that in matters that have to do with security - so crucial to the islands like Samos - with cleanliness, with reception areas, with extensions, etc., they are all beneficial. The Greek state is beneficial, the Greeks and the Greeks are benefiting, the tourists are also benefiting and therefore the country. I don't know about the company. I do not have these figures, but they concern me, other than that of that element, which relates to pandemic and to prohibitions on flights. So you come today to say yes to 177 million of the state budget, not subsidies or transfers in general from the Union, but to our money, to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And we would not have been so surprised by the amount - perhaps we would have weighted it out of the fact that we are not going to pay money, but the netting is - but we remember very well that the Greek State seemed to dispute this amount. And it is very necessary to tell us exactly what compromise was made, if there were any concessions to the sums required, how exactly this agreement was concluded, which Parliament is called upon to ratify with this legislation. You have not convinced us, especially when we specifically asked you for some texts which you did not give before the committee meeting, you did not give them before the plenary sitting, but as our parliamentary representative, Mr Katrinis, has now informed me, you have presented some information in plenary at the last time that we cannot control what the Minister has said. When we ask you for a so-called economic model - a model we tell you in Greek - what was concluded in SYRIZA and what has so far been evaluated as good and we do not have it, when we ask you for the studies of two approved rating houses and have not been seen, then nobody wonders why. So what's a secret, and we shouldn't have it? When you call on the National Representation to give with its authority and with the vote of Members of Parliament the approval and legislative coverage of a government agreement, the opposition must be held up, it must be asked, it must ask. And I must say to you that - I am not talking about the Civic Opposition, which is about changing attitudes and attitudes - but we have been criticising the previous period of the House. Do you remember what you were saying then? Do you remember how much you blamed the government at that time? Especially on the second issue - I don't have time - to support Athens Airport, remember what Mr. Dendias said - I was present! - and Mr. Vorides on the Finance Committee? We criticized. Your insinuation was for a special court. You were talking about matters that would be criminalised. Now what do you think? Because the loss of a recent memory is your rule, we must remind you of specific positions, which you have taken on specific issues, take a stand with a view to and responsibility for the National Representation and always be a PASOK, as a Change Movement aligned with our past, but also with the needs of the place for its future. We memory loss, recent or past, are not going to happen. But you do. There are other issues than economics, which are also related to our foreign policy, where you have suffered it completely from the loss of recent memory. So there we will have the opportunity to freshen them up in your mind and to make you say exactly how you think, to seek out the Greek people where the truth is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u44	I would like to add, Mr President, on a very sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u45	I'm one of those people I'm not ruining. You know that. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u46	I am obliged to speak today about Andreas Papandreou, the man who changed Greece in the years of postpopulation and was and is a leading political figure in the area of the centre and the centre. Not only will we forget him, but Andrew guides us. And yet, Mr President, a second loss of mine is that we all have to congratulate the Greek Police on detecting the crime in the Freshwaters, but we must ask ourselves why it is our colleague Minister, MP, and all of us - for Sage Valyrakis, who has been murdered for five months, has not yet finished the preliminary examination of his murder, and there is evidence of an eyewitness that the man has been murdered. We still say it, we say it, we say it in the House, and nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u47	You've said it many times. I've heard of it. Be well, Mr. Loverdo, thank you. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Dogman, that's not how it works. Mr. Stavuras is here to speak and leave. You will tell me that he has a job, but he said things that need to be answered and now we have to talk to you who do not know what was said, what he said, what the House said. That's not how it works. The Minister is accustomed to - it's not illegal what he did - talking at the end. To listen to the House, to listen to all sides, to the wings and to answer. Because if he were here, Mr. Brutsis, I would say to him that Mr. Stagiras is probably watching a lot of Euro because he has learned to throw the ball on the platform well. If I were the Minister, after the whistle of our rapporteur, Vassilis Villiardou, I would have bend my head and not committed to lies. Because at least what we say is documented and filed in the Minutes and made specific complaints and the Minister did not respond to any of this. And the Minutes say that Germany's airports were strengthened - but take note - from 4 March to 30 June - four months. That is what the European Commission says. You don't? Is that not even what we believe? Mr. Stakoura alone is the documents reliable? I'm filing it in the Minutes. Now get them and if you're kind enough to give them to the Minister to see them. Because when we testify here, he doesn't see them. They're ignoring us. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is where we file evidence. We don't do random work, we come in here reading for all of you. And we asked you to answer why, for example, Turkey does not compensate, just gives two years of extension to airports and does not give 177 million? Why in Bulgaria, also plus two years, have they extended the contract? Why does Slovenia pay only one third? Why are we in a bankrupt country giving millions as if they were a surplus? Because if the millions are exceeded, Mr Psilakakis, it is credited - as you said - that will be paid for by our children or not, you will be asked to answer a little and one topic - I will connect it - which the Greek Solution will show today for a shame that is taking place in our country. For crumbs, the issues are not solved at the time you spend millions right and left. But you never answered everything that we denounced you. And we said, but you're well not capable of those who have ruled to see a mere contract of a state, a state, a government with a businessman to see that you don't get a "cob"? But is that possible? Is that possible? Do you not know what you sign and what these contracts include and pays so millions of euros for the Greek State to a businessman? The businessman does well and thanks he does, little takes you. He could take 300, 400, he only gets 177. Tell him, and thank you! The businessman is doing his job. The businessman looks at his profit, his pocket, his business. We do not look at the nation, the state, the state and the funds of the Greeks. That's the big problem, the huge problem. And I'll tell you later about the most important ones. And Mr Pylakakakis, Mr Stagioras said - you are the object of this - as a success in reducing VAT on the islands. We decreased - it says - VAT on five islands. Very good, i.e. where there are KYTs with illegal immigrants, we reduce VAT on the islands. The rest of the islands are sloppy. You're really a government, common blackmailers. This is a common blackmail. In other words, where there are KYTs with illegal immigrants there we will reduce VAT. You want reduced VAT, you also have a KYT, or you'll have a regular VAT. Unbelievable things are happening. Why only in Chios, in Lesvos? Well, you did, but all the islands, the whole border, the whole acronym Evros, must have reduced VAT and be strengthened and help them. Why Chios, Kos, Lero, Lesvos, Samos? Why not have the Kalymnonians - will our Greek Solution and our President be found as early as tomorrow in Kalymnos, Lero and Kos - who have a huge complaint? Do we have to plant them there with illegal immigrants to reduce their VAT? It's raw blackmail. And this alteration of the population of the remote islands of the Aegean Sea by extortion is really tantamount to a conscious national crime. This morning we watched with great interest the Minister of Justice Mr. Chiara, with whom by subject we had many cooperation in committees and in many bills. As I now remember two years ago to speak, to discuss and analyse in committees and in all the bills the proposal of our President and of the Greek Solution to tighten up penalties. And today, Mr. Tsiaras came out two years after Greece became Kabul, since people are being slaughtered on the streets, since we have a huge explosion of crime to tell us now, after a celebration - rather, the politician means that he does not say anything to you - to go to strict sentences. And today I hear a leading, distinguished New Democracy official, who also has a parliamentary representative in the radio - one of three - four, how many are you? - to say "Look who came out and raped didn't come out with the Law Friday, it's make news, it's true. But be careful, with our law coming out, of the New Democracy, but if it were the case of SYRIZA, it would come out sooner." So this incompetence race you've served is unbelievable. So who has the worst law? It would be a month earlier with you a month later. But when we say life, we mean life and that's all the Greek solution is clear. Life, the sentences for convicted criminals don't fit any misinterpretations, no loopholes, nothing. The rapists must rot in prison, perfection and dash. There's nothing else. Don't bend your heads. That's the truth. You see what's going on outside. If the rapist got out with the Law of Friday, with the Tsiara Law, with the Brutsi Act, with the Heta Law, that's nothing to do with it. Move criminals out there among law-abiding citizens? So what matters is that he's out. And the only party these criminals would never see the sunlight again would be with the Greek Solution, because life means life. Now we are going to some episodes that are being played and really the project has evolved into measrotragamy. Do you know what measles will say? It's the play that starts as a tragedy, but it ends in a comedy, it's going to say merciless. And take the lead, you, the New Democracy government. After seeing - and mentioned it four - five days ago - the abrasive delirium and the propaganda of forgery of the history and vengeance of Macedonia's name by the Skopje before millions of viewers around the world revealed the political fraud of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Now what are you doing? Why now are we going from the tragedy, why was it a tragedy that Greece lived with this agreement in comedy? Because now we're starting to laugh at you. People laugh. You're freezing, it says, the contracts, the sanctions, you put them in the freezer. I'm freezing - I'm unblocking, I'm taking out a rabbit in front of making a statement yesterday on a channel, a Member of my Parliament, that it's good not to come. I take the reactions, weigh them how that went, and I come today to freeze. But be careful, why are you saying you're freezing the contracts? Here's the comedy. To punish, he says, Skopje because they have no good behavior. All right, if you want to punish Skopje, gentlemen, you veto in joining the European Union since you are so determined. Because your soul is shaking, your soul doesn't do it. "In the process of Amsterdam, I strongly support the national football team of Macedonia" as well as "Zoran Zaev". It's tweeted in his official tweeter. What happened to our buddy, taking pictures of Maximus with hugs and kisses? We'll tell him anything? Or are we gonna put them in the fridge, or are we gonna have internal-party reactions? It's your problem. But you cannot make fun of the Greek people. And we can't really keep sinking, because that reminds me, in an unchristian gutter. I heard and was speechless, and I think all Greeks and Greek women heard this last Saturday, the Prime Minister of the country during his visit to Ioannina speaking with the most respected Metropolitan of Ioannina and with a style angry telling him "will you not let any inconvenience enter your church?" What's that? What Prime Minister is he urging the shopkeepers to leave the invaders out? What Prime Minister is he, which urges metropolitans to leave the flock out of the church? Where are these things? Which Prime Minister divides a country? Which Prime Minister, which government divides a country and puts them labels on foolish, smart, sprayed, obscene and advises metropolitans not to accept Christians in there? It's criminal and you're blackmailing Greek Christians once again. The Lord told us that there are no discriminations and exclusions in the house of God. For you, these are fine letters, you divide and rule. But the Church must take place. Where is the Church to take place? And if the blue rassa, which you had taken out and pre-electionally, yours - unfortunately and saddened to say so, but it's the truth - it's not the time for the thousands of priests to speak, who honor their heroic rasso. They need to talk and get in position. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech here today on a very important subject. Mr Brutsis, you also served as Minister of Labour, so you know what unemployment is going to mean. It is shameful for Greece in 2021, two hundred fifty people, two hundred fifty families of polytens, teachers, two hundred fifty Greeks, who gave birth to our homeland four - five - six Greeks each and have asked people to be appointed since 2010. What do two hundred fifty teachers ask of God? Can't we do it? So that is 177 million to give FRAPORT, but to hire two hundred and fifty Greek teachers, who deserve it, we cannot? Since 2010 they have been waiting for the appointment of people who have three - four and five children in a late country who is extinguished, who is drowning in it. And instead of supporting them, instead of helping them, we ignore them. And what's the thanks? The unemployment fund? Today we'll uncover everything. It is here over fifty questions from Members of the New Democracy on this matter. All in the Minutes. To have them hostages. I'll testify to the Minutes to get them later. And no one was interested. People have seen and bothered everyone from you. They only got hollow promises. Because when you don't finish a subject to a citizen who deserves it, you've got him locked up. That's how you operate. We have official information from people who say they have met with the former Deputy Minister of Education, Mrs Zacharakis, on 30-10-2019, 'yes, it will be'. They have met twice with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Education, Ms. Ghika, in August-September 2020, "yes, it will be". They have met about two months ago with the new Undersecretary of Education, Ms. McCarry, 'yes, it will be'. What's up, guys? Why, Mrs. Kerameus, has the case arrived at your office and refused? What hatred is that against the Greeks? Why don't you take care of two hundred fifty families? They're multiple people, they're teachers and they've been entitled since 2010. They've been afflicted for 11 years to work, which they deserve. We have met these representatives. Be careful, there is a difference and the President has made it clear to them. "I don't want to vote or anything. It is a debt of the Greek Solution, a small thank you for giving Greeks to our country. Nothing more. That is why we will fight." And we call on you today, with the amendment tabled by the people, which you have ignored, and which we will table in the Minutes, all of you New Democracy Members, to sign it up to end this issue today, and the two hundred and fifty Greek educational staff, to be recruited immediately. What are we asking? Ten thousand five hundred posts were announced by Mrs. Kerameos. They're out again. Ten thousand five hundred will hire, uh, ten thousand seven hundred fifty. You've done everything you have in blue, by way of derogation, by decision of Ministers. You've done everything you can. These people, we're gonna leave them on the road? We're throwing them away? This is where everyone you sign today will be calling. It's the list here with your MPs, all of them here will have to sign it and finish it. I'll put it in the Minutes after the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u49	And finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President, because hypocrisy must end at some point. These are the important issues. We cannot give millions of euros from the state budget to take care of illegally entering our country, we cannot give and compensate companies without imposing it on us, or because we signed wrong contracts with 170-177 million euros, while the Greek is poor, while Greece is dying, is dying demographicly, and we cannot support two hundred and fifty people of teachers, many who want to work. That's what people want, right, to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Heta. We continue with the Parliamentary Representatives and go to Mr Claonas Gregoriadis, Mera25. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, does anyone wonder where Mr Stavros is? My wicked mind has not avoided the temptation to think about the possibility of Parliament having left on the commonly called round to get back those who are able to pay back from the returnable advances paid this year of pandemic to our poor fellow citizens, people who will have to lose their small business to a large extent, people who will be unemployed if this operation were to work for three or four and it was small after the operation was closed. All these are of course very different from the 'FRAPORT'. We will then analyse them. However, the fact is that Mr. Hetas, Mr. Dogacakis, is right, that Mr. Stakoras should be here to give answers and to clarify things that he's confused. You know who doesn't want to go with the truth blurs the water. I will start very soon with the history of this whole terrible sinful story that we are debating here today in our national Parliament. On December 14, 2015, the first time the Memorandum left government SYRIZA granted with unprecedented colonial type contract our fourteen fillet airports. And so that there are no doubts about what I mean fillets, I'll tell you which airports are some of them. Some of them are of Mykonos, they are of Santorini, they are of Rhodes, Corfu, Kos, Chania, Skiathos and they have no end to the list, they are really fillets, but of course let's take things from the start. The government for the first time a memorial left, the SYRIZA government thought it was good to give "FRAPORT" and then to its subsidiary, "FRAPORT GREECE" with the cooperation of Mr. Koplouzos, the well-known Mr. Koplouzou, who will then talk about him because I have learned that he is bothering him publicly so I will not miss the opportunity to report a auction today. We have one side of this. We now have another sinful story, which has already started since 1995 by the Simitis Government, and I am talking about the so-called 'Eleftherios Venizelos' airport development contract, which was originally signed in 1995 by the Sri Lankan Government and which -h of the miracle! - He's prolonged. Who was her prolongation signed by? Since the first time a Memorandum left government SYRIZA in February 2019. Note now: The contract for our fourteen regional airports has been passed by Parliament and by the Change Movement by both SYRIZA and New Democracy. Today, what are you all actually asking us here? You are asking us to legitimise, ratify and vote for the compensation of the partnership of 'FRAPORT' with Mr Kopelouzos both for 'Eleftherios Venizelos' and for our fourteen regional airports, which, however, is not compensation, but in reality it is a payment of its profits, that is to say it is a guarantee of the profits of this company. Take note now: The economic restoration of concessional airports, due to the consequences of the pandemic, which New Democracy has tabled for a vote in the Greek Parliament, does not really surprise any of us here. What are you going to do once again, Minister? You will compensate financial concession companies for their loss of profits because of the pandemic. The anonymous concession company "FRAPORT" in Greece, which operates fourteen airports, will be compensated by the sum of EUR 177 million, while the "Athens International Airport" with another 130 million. Before I go to that I can describe something I wanted to forget. Why is the definition, why does it prove what is going on here today, that the country is a colony and we are enslaved and that you, the government, are an anonymous company? Why are you doing SYRIZA's colonial contract with 'FRAPORT', where the 'FRAPORT' reminds us that it has acquired these airports, Minister? With a loan. It has not put a drachma in, it has cost them 1.3 billion to get used for all these years, it has not put up a single euro. He has received a loan from a bank of bankrupt Greek private banks, Alpha Bank after Mr. Tsipras' conspiracy, that is, with money that we, the citizens of Greece have given, and by recapitalising these banks such as Alpha Bank, Eurobank, and the National Bank of Greece, we have repeatedly recapitalised them. With a loan, therefore, the 'FRAPORT' and Mr. Koplouzos from these banks took the airports. But the profits of course come out. Why? For the rest of the investment needed by the "FRAPORT" and Mr. Koplouzos, the Greek State once again secured it through the ESRB programmes. The Greek governments have secured all the money that Mr Kopelouzos and Mr "FRAPORT" would like from the European Union. In fact, Mr. Koplouzos and the "FRAPORT", as well as the smaller company, have made all their profits with the Greek people's money. Now suddenly, as in the ten wounds of Pharaoh, locusts fall, frogs fall. You know, Pharaoh's eighth wound was locusts, shattered the sky, ruined the seeds, pestilence fell. What if tomorrow's a loot, Mr. Dog? If five million locusts fall and unfortunately fall over the Greek fall and over our fourteen regional airports what happens? Are you going to say that yes, we are giving EUR 300 million to the 'FRAPORT' and to Mr Koplouzo for locusts? Because you're actually saying that now. You want me to prove to you that you're saying exactly that you're doing this exceptionally? Look, apart from Mr. Koplouzos and the 'FRAPORT', you are well aware that all Greek small businessmen have been destroyed. But to all of them you do not pay compensation, you say that you are not responsible for them because if you were responsible for them you would compensate them in the same way that you would compensate for 'FRAPORT' and Mr Koplouzo. Notice what is the most impressive: How you found the damn 300m euros to give these people compensation, to the monopoly companies, I mean, when the same year, in the year we are running, your state budget has a reduction in health expenditure of EUR 572 million compared to the previous year. In other words, you now want to bless us that we have to vote as a party of the Greek Parliament, as representatives of a small piece of the Greek people, a law that gives EUR 300 million to a company, which just fell victim to a pandemic, while at the same time taking double the amount -572 is 600 more than - from the arsenal of the country, a country which reminds me of touching the thirteen thousand dead, Mr. We have a given, that the world dies in Greece from the coronary, but that does not make you at all want to give EUR 300 million to the recruitment of permanent doctors, health care and new intensive units. He wants you to do what you always want to do. Your Government considers that in this case the concessions provided for in Article 3(1) of the concession contract, which relates to a fact of public responsibility, is the case. I told you before about Pharaoh and the locusts. Is it ever possible for the public to have responsibility for the coming of the pandemic? Is it really? I would ask Mr Stakoura, but he's not here, because he's probably gone to collect as many as he can from the returnable advances of our poor fellow citizens. So be careful, Mr. Dog. Your government - not you personally, but Stakoras - is invoking us the pill of three hundred million euros of compensation invokes the good of the workers, that in these air transport they are Greek workers, that of tourism, as everyone is involved in Greek tourism and examples of other countries - this is because the Greek Solution has just told us how much different from us have other governments been brought to these colonial monopolistic companies - which have either made relevant state aid arrangements or are examining such arrangements. However, Minister, what did you not mention to us? You did not tell us that these specific airport contracts, signed by the SYRIZA government, the first time a memorandum left, on 14-12-2015 and again ratified by SYRIZA but also by New Democracy by Law 4389/2016 - because you also voted for this ratification - the concessionaire did not have the obligation to insure. And that, really, is a big scandal and I want everyone to hear about it. You have made a contract with this rhetoric of "FRAPORT" and Mr Kopelouzos, where you give these people the self-evident obligation for every one, who attempts to secure both himself and his business spirit, his work. In other words, you allow him not to be insured and you also define that he is not insured against operating risks, loss of income, loss of profits from an epidemic or related causes or measures and orders from public authorities. Does this special scheme apply to other companies in Greece, Mr. Minister, or only to anonymous concession companies? I tell you that it applies only to anonymous concession companies. And that shows that we are a colony, and that shows that they actually have both the knife and the melon and the watermelon of these companies. Look, as I told you, this company bought these airports for a 300 million and according to the reasoning of your bill today, it won - but not so much every year - and you are counting on it and you are giving it EUR 180 million. What does that mean? It means with my poor mind that its annual profits will obviously be more than EUR 180 million. To be 200-250m euros? To be 300 million? Is it 500 million? You say so. Don't move my head, Minister. You say here in the bill's reasoning that they lost 180 million and we will give it to them. So I'm telling you, if they lost, they certainly didn't lose all their money because they threw away for a long time. Last summer they flew all summer. So they have already depreciated their costs to get the airports. Of course, they did not do anything to get the airports, because, as I said just now, they actually got them on a loan from a Greek bank which we finance, along with an NRF that was secured by the Greek Government. So these people - Mr. Koplouzos, so that we do not forget each other, and the 'FRAPORT' - did not put 1 euro. On the contrary, they already took out all the investment they didn't put, borrowed again from us, or given from us. And now they come and say "give me 300 million over, because I'm damaged"! Well, that is a reason to be very concerned about your future. In what sense do I say that? I don't want to be threatening, but you know, and colonialism has its limits. I wonder what will happen if the Greek people understand what kind of machine you have set up and how you have entered their house with both hands and, indeed, - I am sorry to say it, dear former comrade - both big parts of the country, the so-called left and the clear right. You've been inside his house, you've been in his clothes and you're stealing him in this unaltered way, without any pretext. And you come here to say that it is your obligation to steal another 300 million from the Greek State and to give it to those who gave them 5 billion airports, which you invoiced at 1.3 billion, and then you had Alpha Bank give them this money and those that did not give them Alpha Bank, they took them from the ESRB, which you forced the European Union to give them? When the Greek people understand how you operate and how deeply you have stolen it, I wonder if the tax havens, where your orders rest, will be quite distant destinations to hide you sufficiently and safely. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Gregoryde.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u55	Intervention? Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u56	Look, on several occasions also the rapporteur of Mera25 and the rapporteur of the Greek Solution, the Parliamentary Representatives, highlight the absence of the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikora.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u57	He's busy. I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u58	Here, Mr President, there has been a misunderstanding, because the Greek Government is represented by the Minister, Mr. Skylakakis. So that's just for impressions and nothing else. I want to say this because Greek citizens are following the debate publicly, so we need to restore reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u59	Sure. Besides, the minister was here this morning. He's got his jobs, too. Both colleagues pointed it out. Mr. Loyadis, come before your chief arrives. Mr. Georgios Logiadis is called in Stepma from Mera25. It's coming from the beautiful Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, thank you. But our leader is the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u61	To Mr. Varoufakis, tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u62	And Mr. Varoufakis. The current draft law concerns the financial support for 'FRAPORT' because of the coronary. FRAPORT operates fourteen airports, eleven on islands and three on the continent. It will be compensated by the amount of EUR 177.9 million and the International Airport of Athens S.A., which operates the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport in Athens, will be compensated by the sum of EUR 130 million. These are for the year 2020. Their financial compensation will be made by the long-term state budget. A special tax regime and concessions from the holding will be introduced for 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and possible losses also for 2023. The Government of the New Republic considers that it is the case provided for in Article 30.4.1 of the Concession Convention on the grounds that the responsibility for the coming of the pandemic lies with the State rather than with force majeure. The airport concessions were first signed in November 2014 by the Government of New Democracy on Samaras and were ratified by SYRIZA on 14-12-2015 and again validated by SYRIZA and New Democracy under Law 4389/2016. Let me remind you here what the AIA is. An independent administrative authority shall be constituted without legal personality. The Authority shall enjoy functional independence, administrative and financial autonomy and shall not be subject to control or supervision by governmental bodies, state bodies or other administrative authorities. Also, in Article 5, the authority is not subject to hierarchical control or supervision by the Minister of Finance. On the basis of the contracts, the concessionaire, the 'FRAPORT' - I am reading exactly what the law says - does not have an obligation to insure his own work and is not insured against operating risks, loss of income, loss of profits from an epidemic or similar causes or measures and orders from public authorities. This is called a colonial, a letonium convention, out and above. At the same time, however, we must stress that the payroll and social security contributions of 'FRAPORT' were subsidised by the State, since its staff were integrated into the 'ACT-WORK' programme. Six hundred twenty employees were supported by the Greek State. How many millions are these? Why does the public accept a fact of responsibility when it is not responsible for the coronary? I searched the concession contract for the economic model, which is mentioned, but it does not exist. This concession agreement exists up to page 216 on the Internet, but Annex 25 on the economic model is on page 616, which is not uploaded on the network. I shall mention a few further details of the 'FRAPORT'. The company will be entitled to compensation if the State decides to make changes to its legislation, which will affect its costs, for example, in contracts of employment. The company is also free to set aeronautical charges or not without the intervention of any State authority, while it is entitled to inform the State that it does not wish the services at airports, such as, for example, snack bar, car rental and so forth. In this case, the state should compensate the companies and solve cooperation with them. With regard to workers, the ‘FRAPORT’ does not commit to maintaining the employees of the PSC while the State has to compensate the company in the event of a legal dispute with those who are fired. Finally, the public will also pay for any death or damage to a person or property due to an act or omission of a part of the contract, as stated. With regard to HPAI, the ‘FRAPORT’ will be exempted from the obligation to pay HPAI for the hundreds of acres to be granted. Municipal fees. The contract lacks and harms local government from municipal fees and taxes, exempting ‘FRAPORT’ from payment for services of general interest, while other individuals and businesses pay in full for sewerage, municipal lighting, biological etc. The ratification of the current draft law is a scandalously favourable regulation in favour of 'FRAPORT'. The Greek Government is guarded by the German Government, Greece supports Germany. The picture of Germany's mortgage debt debt with a debtor in Greece comes to my mind in order to serve its occupying powers. I shall now refer to another very sensitive issue, that of airport safety, because the Ministry of Transport is also responsible for today's draft law. The Government, by means of a recent draft law, significantly undermined the safety of air transport, by abolishing the public authorities of the AAS airports so as not to control private individuals, such as the ‘FRAPORT’, which have taken over all the activities at airports. The result of this is not to ensure that the safety rules are legitimised, but also that citizens are provided with uninterrupted services. The Greek representative of the German 'FRAPORT' had then stated to our committee that state control at airports is not necessary. However, it did not explain why, at the headquarters of FRAPORT, Frankfurt airport, Germany operates an airline authority of the German AAA. From this depreciation of the APA, the only satisfied with the bill is the "FRAPORT" controlled by the weakened Civil Aviation Authority. If there is any incident at one of these fourteen airports managed by the "FRAPORT" due to specific control by the APA, again the taxpayer Greek citizen will be asked to pay again. The safety of airports is also a matter of national security in a country like ours, where the Ministry of National Defence is involved in today's draft law. In the end, we are strangers in our country. We really don't own anything. We have allocated and committed all our public property for ninety years to the institutions. I will conclude by saying that Merra25 has as its primary concern the recovery of both national sovereignty in public property and our national dignity and because it can be heard again that it is all the fault of Varoufakis since 1821, we will say again bring the file of bankruptcy to the House to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr Athanasios Lippi is called at Stepma by New Democracy and the beautiful Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis which we are facing has hit most sectors of the economy. Minimum activities have escaped precipitation. The compulsory restriction of travel at global level has had a dramatic impact on air transport. The government, like most European governments, had to lay strict conditions on air travel in order to protect public health. Who can question the absolute precipitation experienced in recent years by air transport and all the companies involved? Based on the information available to us, the fourteen Aegean airports, Ionian, Crete and Continental Greece had a passenger movement in the year 2020, reduced by 70% compared to 2019. On the basis of the reports of the audit company responsible for the whole of 2020, ‘FRAFORT’ had a profit before tax, interest and amortisation of EUR 10 million, while on the basis of the economic model for the same year, a profit of around EUR 188 million was anticipated. Profits were shown to fall by 178 million. This is the amount that should in theory be paid by the Greek State to the company under the contract. On that basis, the Greek Government assumes responsibility for the restrictive conditions imposed on air transport and has led to a significant reduction in revenues at the Greek airports. On the basis of the concession, if the company’s revenues decreased due to a State’s liability, the amount of the difference must be covered by the Greek State. It also appeared that the company has not been insured for the possibility of an epidemic or a pandemic, but also had no obligation to insure it. The terms of the contract on which the amount of compensation had to be negotiated by the Greek Government and the Minister of Economy were clear and rigorous and indeed the stage of the negotiations lasted for a long period of time, perhaps months, to find a commonly accepted solution. Finally, all sides agreed not to pay up about 188 million in public currency. Instead, the company will not pay the annual concession fee for the years 2019-2020-2021 and possibly for 2022. Moreover, as a compensation, the variable concession fee due by the company will be paid to the Greek State after 2022 and possibly on the basis of the financial data and after 2023. The success of the negotiation is that the financial obligations of the State are exhausted in these amounts, as the company waives any other claim from the loss of revenue it suffered. The convention, which we are currently dominating, has been drawn up on the basis of the expected gradual recovery of passenger traffic in 2021, even in view of the results of mass vaccination, which is under way. However, it is taken into account that the forecasts may be disproved, so that there will be further netting off the claims for compensation. At the end of March 2023, a settlement will be made between the concession fees that the company had to pay and the total remuneration due by the Greek State. In any case, the company undertakes not to distribute dividends until March 2022. The second article of the bill relates to the ‘Athens International Airport S.A.’, which suffered great damage in 2020. In particular, passenger traffic decreased by 68.4 % to about 8 million passengers from 25.5% in 2019. In fact, total profits before interest, taxes and depreciation in 2020 decreased by 81.3%. It is therefore planned to provide financial aid for the ‘Athens International Airport’ amounting to EUR 130 million for the damage suffered last year. This money will be provided in two ways: as a direct grant of approximately EUR 55 million, the remaining amount will be offset in terms of the remuneration for the rights to be paid by the Athens International Airport for the years 2020-2021-2022. Of course, if the loss is less than the planned aid, then there will be no netting in the coming years. Of course, all this is under the approval of the European Commission. It is important to clarify that the financial support for airports in relation to the great loss of revenue that they face is a pan-European phenomenon rather than a Greek phenomenon. Many countries, such as Germany, Norway, the United Kingdom and Italy, have made such aid. Airports are key gates of entry in the country and calculated economic power by employing hundreds of employees. Only the 'FRAPORT' has six hundred 20 workers and the maintenance of jobs is our priority. In any case, the Greek Government remains fully consistent with its contractual obligations, ensuring stability and serious political decisions. With a view to the current summer season the forecasts are more optimistic for the tourist movement and the Greek economy as a whole. This year's estimates see about four and a half million passengers for the International Airport of Athens, i.e. the recovery of 45% of the 2019 passenger traffic and an increase compared to the eight million of 2020. Tourism has been fairly classified as a heavy industry in the country. It recommends a large chain, of which many economic sectors depend and a significant proportion of the country's GDP, about a quarter. With the existing data, the maximum vaccination of the majority of the population will bring about the expected recovery of the economy. The flawless, professed, vaccination procedure applied by the government results in more than four and a half million citizens being vaccinated at one dose of the vaccine. Already, all the pandemic-related indicators have improved drastically, but we are also experiencing a major recession. All the coordinated efforts of the government project bear fruit and bring us closer to a much-needed overall return to social and economic activity and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u65	Thank you too, Mr Lippee. You're always time consistent. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us just let our imagination work. You got a mushroom, he comes to your house, he looks at your house and he says, I like, nice, I'll take it. What are you gonna do? I'll take it, I want it, I don't have money to give you, but I get it. What do you say, my Christian? Look at what we're gonna do, he says, you're gonna get a loan for the amount we've just agreed to, that's how we agreed on it, you're gonna give it to some of my buddies, those you're gonna lend me that money, I'm gonna give it to you, in the meantime, I'm gonna rent your house, from this rent, I'm gonna pay my buddies a little bit, but I'm gonna have certain profits, which you're gonna make for. If the tenant can't give it to me, you'll give it to me. And if you don't have to give it to me, we're gonna take it away from what I'm going to give to the buddies, you're actually paying my loan. I'm guessing if that was the case, you'd call the police to get that man out of there. We didn't call any police here. Police were the troika and imposed this on us with the fourteen airports. To be more specific, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling and Reconciliation. In 2015, following the consortium of SYRIZA colleagues, the troika, under the third Memorandum of Understanding, of these 85-86 billion, went to the Greek State. From the Greek state he went to the systemic banks and from the systemic banks this 1.2 billion was borrowed by the "FRAPORT", which he gave to the public, to give it to the troika and thus closed a very beautiful circle. Of course, the story did not end there, because the Greek State of course had to pay a depth of 30 years in 1.2 billion, the interest of 1.2 billion, but at the same time what was this good company doing? Incidentally, it is another form of nationalisation that has been done with the fourteen airports. They were not privatised, nationalised, but by the wrong nation, by the German nation, because it is a state-owned German company, don't forget that. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] They come and make investments, which is very nice. How much money did they put for investments? Just zero! What investments are these? They came from the Greek NSRF. Are you going to tell me: is that Greek? Of course it's Greek. I do not see any colleague from the Change Movement from the former PASOK to him or remind her of the great struggle that Andreas Papandreou did in 1983, even vetoing or threatening to veto the entry of Portugal and Spain into the European Union - the European Economic Community at that time - that if there were not the so-called integrated Mediterranean programmes, which have evolved into Delore packages, which were made by the NSRF, there would not be that money, not only for Greece, but also for Spain and Italy. From the Greek NSRF, therefore, with the money of the Greek people, the European people, borrowed by the Greek people and paid back in the next thirty years, the good 'FRAPORT' has actually obtained free of charge from these fourteen airports - diamonds, assets, assets of great value, took them free, put others to invest for it and even, in the midst of pandemic, has you to give her the profits they estimate they would have no pandemic! This is a joke, Minister. Minister, I'm looking at you. Aren't you ashamed? Don't you feel? [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] That's possible! And the biggest supporter of capitalism is, can you accept the idea that the state will secure the profits of a company according to the company's statement of what the profits would be if we didn't have the pandemic? Anyway, I want to stay on this a little bit, because the Left is making a very big mistake for many years. It blames Brussels, the troika, you for neoliberalism. I wish we had neoliberalism. And I say this as a fighter for neoliberalism. We don't have one. I remember Thatcher. I grew up in England with Thatcher, who was the first to teach, supposedly, your ideology. Two things were saying in favour of privatization. The first is competition, that you privatize in a way that ensures that the market is competitive, regardless of whether it did so well or not, but at least it said so. What are you doing? You don't do it, you do what the troika told you. You gave all fourteen airports, both Mykonos and Santorini to a company. This is being circumvented by basic thots. I mean, you must be ashamed of yourself, Minister, as a bourgeoisie. Unless you're not a sausage, so you have other reasons to be ashamed. The second argument put forward by Thatcher and the neoliberals to privatise is that the profit of the operator is justified, justified, explained, justified, justified, justified, is justified as a form of remuneration of the business risk, without any public burden. But what you are doing today - and that is why I will say once again that you must be ashamed of yourself, and I say it with love and respect, but you must be ashamed of yourself - is that you ensure the profit of the private businessman! What's that on? This is the definition of robbery, of the State guaranteeing the private profit. I remember that in one of the emergency debates - not so urgent, relatively calm - I raised the issue of the fourteen airports. Because, as you all know, this story has been a timid desire for the troika since the time of the government of Samaras - Venizelos. It wasn't even your idea, it was theirs. They wanted the fourteen airports and submitted it to the government of Samara - Venizelou. When we entered the government in January of '15, we said that there would be no such thing happening and I would have a word with Shoeble. And I'm telling him: You don't tell me - we were talking to the Native, so you used to be, it wasn't that I was rude, the Finance Ministers used to talk to the Inn - Volfrang, to ask you something, you would ever give fourteen German State airports to a company, no matter how much the price on the part of competition. No, it tells me, not at all. That's what he told me, no way. Then, I tell him, why are you imposing it on us? You know what he did? Pick up his shoulders. You understand it as you like. Is my interpretation allowed? We are not equal and similar, you are a state in possession. That's what Mr. Shoeble wanted to tell me at the time. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And you came and confirmed him. We went against each other, and you confirmed it, you gave the airports to the 'FRAPORT'. With your signature, it's done. It is the reason why, at the time and then, even today, I have been in paradoxical situations, to talk to myself - who? I-I, with people, who were top government ministers, like Michael Howard, like Norman Lamont, who were obviously one of the protagonists of privatisation and neoliberalism. I was told by those who "what they did to you in Greece is unheard of, very clearly, violation of any principle, even of the free economy". You hear this from Howard, you hear Shoeble saying to you "in no way would I do it in Germany" and you come to this temple of Greek democracy and you see the complete humiliation of our parliamentaryism. You come and pass it, whether it is SYRIZA who gave it to "FRAPORT" or you, who will give money that you do not have or the Greek people, will be credited to "FRAPORT". I'll tell you again: you're not even neoliberal. You're therapists of disgusting colonists. That's what you are. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] I want to ask you something. I see you and I look in your eyes calmly and with love. If Constantine Karamanlis lived today, what would he tell you about what you're doing? I have the impression you'd hear the exhaust. What if Andreas Papandreou lived, who has no PASOK anymore in mind? His curse would have the Change Movement or the PASOK. You don't even have the alibi, which have PASOK and New Democracy, that the historic leader who made them government has restored to the Lord. You're the leader of a new man, we're fine, we're beating wood and he's moving between you. Under the orders of Mr Tsipras, you signed the colonial convention whose present indifference is normal. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to tire you, as the situation is so clear. The neo-Greek history is found by fierce contracts of dependence and subjection. Purchasing contracts. Three, however, are the robbery contracts that will also represent a reminder of the basic defeat of Hellenism, moments in modern Greek history for which we must all be ashamed and weep. The first was the loan from the Ricardo brothers in 1825. You know very well what I'm talking about. The second was the mortgage loan that Wermach imposed on us. And the third is this submission contract to the "FRAPORT" that perfectly symbolizes debt colony, the total reproach of subjection in the memorandums and troika. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you who will vote positively or whoever you dare to vote 'the present', choose to be placed not only on the wrong side of history, but on the short list of the dactylos of the future. And now, right now, you can react to this fate. Vote against!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Varoufakis. The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I have not been following this debate since the beginning, and in this case I would like to replace my colleague and friend Christos Staikos in the debate on compensation for the fourteen regional airports. I did not mean to take the floor, but I heard various paradoxical things and even characterizations from the party leader, Mera25. I would just like to note that in 2015 we really had a development that we should feel shameful about. It was when he was destroyed with a huge value of public property...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u69	Vasta Gerun!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u70	I don't understand... The honourable Member was obviously talking to himself. I think he was all alone. And he was monologue, because whenever there is a reference to the real responsibility of the combination of Officerial Response and Mr. Varoufakis, he runs out of the Chamber. And I think that makes sense. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let us now say a few words about this convention. This contract was signed after a tendering procedure. There was a competition, one company paid a higher price, significantly higher price than the second one, and took this competition. The Convention was signed by today's Dedicated Opposition. The contract signed by the Qualified Opposition provides for compensation, creates obligations. The Greek state, the General Accounting Office of the State, has actually received 1,234 billion and then we must have collected some extra money from the 440 million investments, which were made and which were a contractual obligation. I think that's what he's talking about. When it became the pandemic, which obviously does not have the responsibility of the Greek State, but there is the objective responsibility, which arises from the fact that we have signed the convention, we had to make a decision: we would negotiate or go into arbitration. The Greek State to tell you the truth has a bitter experience of arbitration and the arbitration has an additional financial harm, that they leave the final result unknown. You don't know what's going to take you out on an Arbitration. And not to remind of recent arbitrations, which began with little initial differences and resulted in hundreds of millions to the detriment of the Greek public. There has been a difficult task of this negotiation, which has indeed taken some time. We have earned some things, in particular we have reduced the financial risks of a future arbitration, plus the immediate payment of the relevant money, plus some other conditions, will tell you more in detail. On 17 June, the parties were informed of what was included in the convention and some Members were present - and so there is transparency - and now it is time to ratify this by Parliament, because we do want to move transparently. There's nothing else. There may be an opportunity to express parties in the well-known way expressed in the period of 2015 or in the last decade. I would like to say to these parties that the Greeks do not want to go back in the 2010-2020s nor do they want to hear that reason. There is no prospect of that political reason. The Greeks want their country to function as a normal European country, to have credibility, to have dignity, to respect the conventions, to negotiate where it needs to be negotiated and to proceed to a next phase of Greek history and society, which will be a phase of progress and rationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u73	You're welcome. The parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you said nothing specific about the way Mr Varoufakis damaged the Greek public. I would expect a minister in fact to say specific figures, that is to say, with so many millions there, with so many billions there, in this way, in this decision. It's the well-known mud-sweeted vague mass that's been deceiving for ten years. But I, Minister - and I shall end immediately, Mr President - would like to remind you, with responsible figures in both our budget and everywhere in Europe and Greece, namely ELSTAT and the European Statistical Office, that Mr Varoufakis is the only Minister at the time of the 11 famous memoranda, during which, whether you like it or not, no wages have been paid cut, no worker has been made redundant and no tax has been increased throughout the territory. I would also mention that during the six-month period when Giannis Varoufakis was Minister and negotiator, in a paradoxical way, Mr President, the Greek State's reserves went up by some tens of millions - and I say 'a paradoxical' because I am honest - and our debt was reduced by a few tens of millions. Everything is disgusting to you, Minister. And you know what's left of it? There is only one thing left to be said: those who have cut our country in ten years are coaling up and accusing the only one who has put his chest before us to prevent this divestment. We won't allow it in here! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u76	I wouldn't answer, but I'm intrigued. If you want to know the arithmetic part - because the damage was unquestionably greater - you have only to see how much the value of the Greek shares, the shares of the Greek banks that held on behalf of the Greek state the Financial Stability Fund, since 2014 in 2015. There are the billions, which have been numerically lost, i.e. the damage to public property. As far as what happened at that time is concerned, I would remind you - because there is also the word'shock','shock' - that it was the only time in the last few decades that Greece has had a credit event. The credit event, in the last few days before the entry into the third year of the third - and unnecessarily - was then the credit event, for which we have certainly paid too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u78	No, no. You have a right, of course, but then you'll have to return and people are waiting to speak, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr President, for thirty seconds. Our Chief is missing and what the Minister said needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u80	Here, you have the floor, because you're very sympathetic to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u81	Minister, your Mr. Stavros was your seat in the Bank of Greece, who said from the TVs "take your statements and go to America, because you will be destroyed" - you were a minister for that reason, I imagine - and not at all Mr. Varoufakis. And, of course, for the closure of the banks only unmarried would claim that Greek is responsible, not Mr. Diaselblum, along with Mr. Jacques Claude Juncker. It's more obvious! Since the first day Mr. Draghi has been blackmailing Mr. Varoufakis, 7.30 in the morning of the first day the Ministry took over said to him: "I'll close the banks in an hour". The banks, Minister, cannot be shut down by the Greek Minister. He's closing them, making them suffocate. Asphyxiation was made by Brussels in our banks!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u83	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u84	Allow me to speak in the debate and I must do so. Mr. Poppa, I'm sorry, you're going to take the floor, but this is where things have been heard unscrupulously. I would remind you, Mr President, that the most creepy moment in the modern history of the Greek nation was the moment not when we entered the Memorandum and the financial constraints, not even later. It was the moment when the banks, which the Greek people, the Greek businesses, the Greek citizens were in front of closed lockers and could not get their money. This period is a period of SYRIZA with Minister of Finance Mr Varoufakis and bears full responsibility for the closure of the banks and the great credit event that has been recorded in Greek history until the worst time in the modern years of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u85	You've given all three foods to Mr. Poppa. Parliamentary spokesman from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Nikolaos Pappas is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. It's very interesting that the conversation comes back in 2015. So you will allow me to say two things. For the 2015 negotiation we are proud and certainly anyone who was Minister of Finance, some of the partners who played a dominant role at that time had decided to lead things to the extremities. That's clear. I would say to you this: What the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy described as the worst event of the crisis in Greece is a event that preceded the election victory of SYRIZA in September 2015. We have therefore also been judged on the first part of the negotiations, and we have also been historically judged. I would also like to address Mr Varoufakis personally. He's not in the Chamber, but I'll tell him as quietly as possible. It is not the only one in Parliament who has knowledge of the negotiations and discussions within the Greek Government. He's not the only one. And I would say that the criticism of SYRIZA is also being exercised, because I, too, remember now - and I have to say this - that in the first phase of the negotiation Mr Varoufakis was recommended to Mr Tsipras to consent to a communiqué saying that the newly elected Greek Government will continue its previous programme, the previous programme, which was privatization - or nationalisation - of the airports of 'FRAPORT'. Therefore, I would say when Mr Varoufakis and the Members of MERA25 in SYRIZA are addressed to know that there are people in Ethiopia who were self-satisfied witnesses of what was distributed at that time. No one has the monopoly, and we must all be careful. But I think we have seen here and what would be convenient for the New Democracy. For the New Democracy it would be convenient for the progressive party, the Left, either to say "do not mix me with these things and when there is fire, I will not put my hands on the chestnuts out" or say "I will put them until I burn my hands and then just have a comforting speech towards the Greek people". There's the other option, the choice we made. He was historically justified and vindicated not only because we came out of the memoranda, was justified because during our governance four hundred and fifty thousand jobs were created and during the 2010-2014 crisis we lost a million jobs. In this respect, insufficient information on an inadequate negotiation with the concessionaire. I said before that this convention is not a convention which was freely signed by two equal parties. The country was faced with an unfavourable relationship at that time and I cannot imagine that you yourself would argue that if we did not have the burden of negotiation, of insistence on the partners and of course manage the debts you had charged to the Greek people, you would have signed such a contract. It is an unfavourable contract for the Greek State. That's clear. No one can ignore it and I do not know whether there is a New Democracy Member who has an opposite view. Of course we realise that any negotiation with the concessionaire at this time also took place in the light of the light and the burden of the existence of this contract. But you didn't make us wiser. Okay, we heard you praise us because our envoy at the Ministry of Finance sat more, but - excuse me very much - this is an information process? No documents were sent and even their mobile phones were not even available for people to have inside, and now Mr Stagioras comes and tells us that there is - he says - a letter from the concessionaire that he would like to agree to an version of the force majeure. And he doesn't testify to it in the Minutes. What exactly is that? So, what do you want to hide? It is obvious, then, that you want to hide something and that is a fact that makes us absolutely suspicious of what has been distributed. It is clear and we know that in other countries too, there has been support for airports and through direct grants and through the use of the Temporary Framework of State aid, but there are issues that we cannot go beyond. First of all, the report on the economic consequences of pandemic in the fourteen airports was drafted in one day. How do we explain that? In other words, we have on March 23, the signing of the Convention and on March 24 the study 'DLOITTE', which you do not show to us - you only show us a summary - and to which 'I cannot guarantee the primary elements, I have not done any primary research, what I have read and what I have seen'. What do you ask for, then? So here I think there should be a clear picture, and that is what the Greek people are listening to us, the parties of anti-population, the employees of the company. Of course, there are other issues, such as the issue which we consider to be very important, the 30 million-dollar limit, set as a threshold for not starting a new negotiation procedure. This is an inappropriate number and it will de facto be called upon to re-pay compensation, thus zeroing the business risk. I shall refer to 'Eleftherios Venizelos'. As far as we know, the company of “Athens International Airport” will deposit full operational revenues and expenses to the Ministry of Infrastructure. What if the loss amount is lower will the additional aid be repaid? But it is clear from your state that here there are two meters and two weights. Because, as Mr Skylakakis said in the government headquarters, for the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises we have an exclusion from the financial instruments of the State, except for the repayable advance, which we can no longer count as aid, because the account time has to be returned. For all these businesses, your Government has only one and well-known recipe to come to the public debate, which is the recipe of the Mitsotakis - Pissaridis report, which identifies these enterprises as the fundamental problem of the Greek economy and deliberately excludes them from the funding tools, so that the liquidation that is very rich in your own economic perception can take place. And it seems that because they are excluded for exactly the same reasons, both from the Recovery Fund, Mr Poutlakakis, in these businesses all you have to say is: be patient and you will be redeemed by thirty with forty thousand businesses, which may be supported or employed as employees in these businesses, which will have been left behind. Let me now make a reference to an issue that we have learned today that you have discussed at the Ministerial Council and I am talking about insurance. We've also seen some communal type wards that you're going to a Swedish model. No Swedish model, a thousand model you dream of, you did it too clean. I would like to ask a very specific question, because I see a provision to get things quickly to the insurance issue: Are there any comparative studies? Is there a study at the National Accounting Authority?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u87	Three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u88	Three. What do they predict, Mr. Dog? How much will the public pay? What will this reform cost? It's a simple question, you can take the floor for thirty seconds after my speech and tell us the exact numbers. Don't just tell us you don't know. Finally, because for insurance it seems that you want to convert Greece into an endless "ASPIS PROMOTION", you do not learn from international experience, because about thirty countries have made these choices, eighteen of which have reversed the choices, namely the privatisations of the second pillar of social security, and that is at the core of neoliberalism. And we welcome this criticism, although the opposite view has been heard, I believe that you are exaggeratedly neoliberal, and that is reflected in the way in which you handled the issue of working with the bill, which you have brought about, which, in essence, abolishes both the collective negotiations and the eighth and of course the way you are dealing with the work. I'm closing up with another question. Because we have seen that your intention is to return to reasonable surpluses too soon, is there a warning of a tight budget? What should the Greek people prepare for? Do you consider the agreement that we have made with the partners at the moment sufficient and ruthless in relation to what the Greek economy has been through because of the crisis in which it entered from your policies and from the coming of the pandemic? These are questions which you are asked to answer. Above all, we would like the answer to the insurance policy, because it raises a major issue here. I do not know what you have discussed and what you have not discussed within Greece, outside Greece and with the partners, but in any case it cannot be said that a change is taking place which will cost the Greek public a few dozen billion euros. Mr. Stavoura, welcome again, I asked Mr. Psulakakis, to make you a society very quickly, whether there is a study at the National Accounting Authority about the changes that you intend to bring to Parliament on the basis of the decisions of the Ministerial Council and what will be the cost for the Greek State if these changes become the law of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Kurublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been twenty-five years since Andrew Papandreou, an inspiring leader, who has always been opportune. He was the man, the politician who said that work must produce safety and we have now entered after the last bill was passed in the absence of vast insecurity and terrorism in the workplace. He was the leader who dared to give pride to the place when he said to our neighboring country, who threatened to enter with "PIRI PEIS" in '87 for research into the Aegean that if PIRI PEIS enters the Aegean will sink. Then the winds didn't take it to the Aegean Sea. He was the leader who dared to clash with the political and social discrimination of the 1980s and here. He was the leader, who colluded with the inequalities to build the country's social defence. And because some people easily even since his resignation, the former fact that I was part of it, dared to say that these were made with loans, let us put the first budget that Mr Paleokrassas voted on to see if it was from external loans. Mr President, I have listened to Mr Stakoura, whom I believe he is modest, but he is often carried away from the ostrich he has, to remember what Tsipras said in '14 and '13. Tsipras was a new leader, who didn't rule until '13 and '14. Those who had a lot of experience, including Mr. Stagiras, were not the ones who built Zappeion 1 and Zappeion 2, did not deceive the Greek people politically in '12, they took the elections and then immersed him in all those measures that were actually experienced by the Greek people? Mr. Stavoura, did Tsipras say "no sinner" before Mrs. Merkel? So to remember, why you have a selective memory. Now let's go to the benefits you've made. You did not tell us where the public debt is, Mr Stakoura, nor did you tell us that so far you have received loans, which you should have taken all year round. And you got it in the first semester. I remind you of the times of Karamanlis and how things turned out later to be close to reality. Of course, I will also take the opportunity to talk about what Nikos Pappas referred to, which took place this morning at the Ministerial Council. Watch out. Do not be so self-sufficient and so self-sufficient, because the Karamanlis government fell from the structured bonds. Watch out for this very intense "speaking" of yours by depositing privatization. And that's what I'm saying to Mr. Skylakakis, because at the time Mr. Skylakakis was not in New Democracy. Because I have good memory for the time being, I remember many of his positions, even for the wonderful loans of the New Democracy, so we don't forget. So since you are so galantic about benefits, Mr Stakoura, and you are giving companies hundreds of millions of dollars on the basis of what you say - I accept it - the contractual obligation, are these companies first prioritised? And is it not a priority, Mr Stavoura, the story of the pains of the ultra-insurances of the North-West, where with Law 4093, while the troika did not ask you to "slash them" then? You don't remember? And the government of SYRIZA came and in 1915, but also in 19 with Law 4618, Article 2, and restored this terrible injustice against these people, who do not have the "sun fate". And yet, two years have passed, and you who have been crying many times for the Northcontinentals - to hear it - and you have not been able to issue a ministerial decision, which would cost you five million, not three hundred. Five! Mr President, I would ask that the chief clerk be here to get two letters from the Pensioners' Union. What do these letters say, Mr. Stakoura? Retired people took the retrospectives in October on the basis of the decisions of the Council of State in '15 and '16. You're fearless, you're really theoballers, you're saying here that you've given and given. I almost got carried away and believe that I live in a wonderful world. What did you do in 1920 with Law4714 Article 114 and Law4734, Mr. Stakoura, that you have a galantomus mood? What did you do? The self-taxed tax rate of up to 20% you took 45%. Here's what the Greek people are! The 20% that was up until then you took it to 45%. That's what you did to help retired people. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, from 2009 to 2014 to seventy thousand pensioners were fined at the time. Others paid, others haven't paid yet. And there comes in '21 the 618 decision of the Council of State which fully justifies them. And silence a fish! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, the convention that comes to Parliament creates a great deal of thought for every citizen of the European Union, much more for us politicians. No one disputes, to be fair, that there was an airport upgrade project. However, the Government must first convince us that the contract was concluded and that all the contractual obligations of the company concerning the projects were fulfilled. I would now like to refer to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State and to the timely and valid information deficit. We did not get the relevant documents, although they were given to a certain extent. It is not, however, the best way to do this, to get some representatives to look at texts relating to contracts. However, Mr President, there are too many questions and, above all, we have a speeding-up of the way in which we are trying to satisfy these companies' request.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u91	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Stavoura, because you still don't remember why you don't want to remember, read the statements by Mr. Dendias and Mr. Vorides of that period for the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, to see if today's views are linked and agree with those of the New Democracy. Because it's easy every time you remember some positions that have been made in the past, whether it was the PASOK then government or SYRIZA over the last four years. Mr President, there are concerns about the implementation of the Convention. You can't ignore it and get over it. The government did not give us the most convincing answers to the questions raised by all the opposition wings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, is hereby invited to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, if I may, I shall be in my place. I choose to speak from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u95	Is your speech or is it just an intervention - a placement?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u96	Intervention, placement, speech in total. But I choose to speak from here, not from a Chamber Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u97	Sure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary session we are debating a bill which at another time, at another supposed political stage, would have exhausted it within an hour. For it is a bill that is a state's agreement, a state commitment to a process that has begun before 2015. Signed in 2015. The state keeps going. Our government is consistent with what it has taken in its hands as Greek state commitments, and today what we are doing is to satisfy this state commitment by proving consistency and continuity, two principles which each government must govern. Instead, a debate has begun - and it is usually done - for ever. We have even reached the conspiracy stories of Mr Varoufakis, even starting with the issues that concern the fourteen airports, which I shall tell you, because I have a personal view as a Cycladic. Two of the fourteen airports relate to two islands of the Cyclades, Santorini and Mykonos, which have personally experiences of what it was like today. We have heard stories about the collapse of the Greek economy, stories about theft of public money, insurmountable things, which no one can prove and are only in the sphere of imagination. It is good, then, to be serious, to be specific, to speak, not at all, but every time, when we have a matter on a bill to talk about it. I am going to talk about this bill, but let me make two introductory remarks - I have to do it - and to Mr Pappa, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, and to his colleague, SYRIZA, who has now left the Chamber. Because it has chosen to enter the ideological ideologicals of the New Democracy and I have the honour, Mr Pappas, to belong to this party, which has been historically justified in New Democracy, by a young child and I am honoured to be a member of the New Democracy, I would like to tell you that the New Democracy has neither been nor will it ever become a neoliberal party. The New Democracy, Mr Pappa, is and remains a party of folk, patriotic and liberal. Two words make up the core of our ideology. Social liberalism. This, to get some ideological lessons from our ideology to see our own stability, our beliefs and our principles. Social liberalism. Second. You have made a criticism of the question of potential subsidiary insurance, which was said today at the Ministerial Council. So I want to tell you my own experience as a former Minister. Mr. Pappas, a draft law on insurance can no longer come to the House after Law 4670, the Brutsi Act, in March 2020, which is not accompanied by a proportionate study. The sinful history of the past, as happened before the Vrutsi Act, the Kakrugalou Law and other laws, which never came to the Greek Parliament as the Constitution and the laws, an insurance bill without a proportionate study, have ended forever. Law 4670 passed at the end of February 2020 and closed the insurance fund in respect of the main pension, came with a proportionate study, Mr Pappa. So don't have any anxiety. If and when the supplementary insurance bill comes, it will be in a proportionate study. He cannot come without a proportionate study. Not now. And in the future. Secondly, with regard to the point made by your colleague Mr Kurubli. Mr President, Mr Kourublis has again made a catastrophic approach to insurance law4670 with things that are irresponsible. The application of Law 4670 has started since 1 March 2020. He composed everything he found in the past. Consolve all the funds. There is now an insurance body in the country, e-ECA. I have kept - I use the first person because the Minister at that time also has the right to write the law - by recognising the attempt to unify the funds from SYRIZA to three out of the thirteenths the word EFKA. I added the word “e - FYROM” by doing that it will be the next step of the country's digital most insurance system. This insurance law is evolving and is being implemented and it is now time that the main pensions will be paid to all pensioners who are existing on the payroll, twenty-one months retrospectively plus one half-time pension for each pensioner with thirty years and one month of working life. And this will be completed, according to the information I receive and I know through e-FTA, until the end of September. So by the end of September the country's total pensioners will also have retroactively been retrospectively twenty-one months to thirty years and over and in addition the new pension. The most important thing, however, is not the existing pensioners. Because that's where there's a wrong big one. The most important thing is the future, Mr. Pappa. Because this law raises the flag too high in terms of cultivating insurance consciousness, because it sends a message that everyone is insured, everyone is declared because it suits them, because those who are declared and insured and have thirty years and one day of insurance will receive a higher pension. That's the secret that we changed in your own iso-depressive perception of the previous law that equated everything and wanted everyone to be the same. I said before that in the bill that it is an obligation of the State which is now to be ratified. Fourteen airports that have today become a real jewelry. I know closely as I have experienced both Mykonos and Santorini, that it was an unacceptable to tragic situation. Let me say the words again, the situation was unacceptable to tragic. The two central airports of the country, Mr Spanakis, which were the front of Greek tourism in the two most neuro-algal tourist islands in our country, were shameful and whoever came in there and left, at the same time said "I will never return to these airports". It is a continuation of the state, Mr Papapas, that you have indeed signed what was initiated by the Samara government, and we are today continuing it and fulfilling the contractual obligations of the state. Indeed, these fourteen airports, as Mr Stagioras said, are now an ornament and make us all proud of what has been formed today. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The other point that is worthy is the question of VAT. Mr. Varoufakis is now away. He's throwing his own candles, and then he's leaving, as Mr. Skylakakis said. Let's see what happened with the VAT. Mr President, VAT on the Aegean islands is something that was guaranteed by Constantine Karamanlis just before we entered the then European community. At that time - and I say this to my fellow Members, who are all absent - our country could only take one in return. Constantine Karamanlis chose, in return, not to take the competitiveness of tourism, but to support the standard of living of islanders with reduced VAT on the Aegean islands. This was a national reserve, which was retained even in the first and second Memorandums, despite what the lenders were asking for. Unfortunately, in the third memorandum and with the signature of Mr Varoufakis in February 2015, the VAT has been fully equalised by the government of SYRIZA, and today Mr Stagiras, the Greek Government, the Greek Government, has taken a first step and we hope for the second step - the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis - in the islands of Lesvos, Samos, Leros, Leros and Kos to come the reduced 30% VAT and not on an annual basis to sign it by a ministerial decision, but the 30% minus is now being legislated in these five islands. This is a very positive step. I have a question. Will you vote for this, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Mera25 will vote for it? Because it is the desire of our islanders, Mr President, of all the self-government, self-government, citizens of the islands to return the reduced VAT paid by the third memorandum with the signature of Mr Varoufakis. I therefore believe that today's bill, which relates to our country's contractual obligation, needs to be voted on by everyone. There is no reason for political disputes in this matter. Our country and the current government are a country, governed by rules of principle and consistency, and here comes this issue before us, because the crisis has touched everything, it has touched the labour market, it has touched business, it has touched the economy, it has touched flights and airports. As all the European countries have done, we do so, namely, to support the airports in our country and to be consistent with the country's contractual obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u101	Wait a minute, Mr. Pappa. I saw you, but before I went to the Bureau, Mr Hetas has asked the previous President for a small intervention, and you will then speak. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u102	For seconds, Mr. President. Mr. Brutsi, you are experienced, but lately in the New Democracy you are also good at baptism. You're baptizing, giving serotypes of various kinds. You know, the policy of a party and a government is not judged by what a Member or a minister will give. What did you say? Social liberalism? That's new now. We had liberalism before. I will ask: Mr Brutsi, because you are very experienced and have also passed by the Ministry, deny that you are a hard neoliberal party. What's the name of the party, what's the name of the party that refuses its story after too many, close to fifty years and abolishes collective labour agreements? If this party, which abolishes the collective agreements which it has supported for years, is not a hard neoliberal, then which party is a hard neoliberal? We need to know what's going on in here. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr Pappas has the floor for a small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u104	I am afraid, Mr President, that I, too, will be sorry for Mr Brutsi, and I will tell him that a moment ago in the government benches was Mr Skeylakakis, who I think is one of the prominent members of domestic neoliberalism and, of course, is also a prominent member of the financial staff with an upgraded role. If a party is not neoliberal, which brings these working arrangements and abolishes the eight-hour and collective bargaining, if it is not neoliberal, a party which is willingly recommending the liquidation of the world of small and medium-sized enterprises, if it is not a neoliberal party which is looking forward to privatising the second pillar of social security, I really do not know what is neoliberal and we will again start looking at economic manuals from the start, Mr President. Finally, I take the opportunity that Mr Stagioras is in the Chamber again. It is obvious that this morning the Ministerial Council decided to bring insurance law to the House. We ask again: have the relevant proportionate studies been carried out? Are there any at the National Accounting Authority? Have they been present within the Ministry at some point in the recent past a few weeks ago? Does the Minister have any knowledge? Can it tell us how much the cost the Greek taxpayer will bear to make this transition, as the neoliberals call it, dismantling as the common sense and the progressive forces call it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. I think that another parliamentary representative has not asked for the floor. We continue the list of speakers and Mr Charalampos Papadimitriou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't find it right now, because it's much easier to find out what Mr. Tsipras said than to find out what Karamanlis said in 1974, but you need to look for it to coordinate a little bit between you two, because I thought other people at the time was absolutely clear who was liberal. The concept of neoliberal was introduced into Greece by the Left, which went and looked for it very far. No one else had any reason to look for this, because liberalism existed in Greece and was represented as well as by the old right, of course, as well as the great leader of our country, who understood not in '93, but when he was signed in this Chamber with the speeches at the time of Constantine Mitsotakis and Andreas Papandreou that the future of Greece is European and is liberal. From that point on, liberalism is one of many, at least the good ones. The others? Here we go, we'll see. However, when we talk in this Chamber and say things, we must say that here in this nice picture through the plane just before it lands at Corfu airport, the Chief of Officer's Response says: "A land at Corfu airport. S.H.I.E.L.D. is preparing its sale to private individuals. 25 May we spoil the plans." I have no objections. After all these years, I've heard and seen everything, so I'm not surprised. But you must vote at the moment on the rescue of this plan, for which Mr. Tsipras was photographed, having Mr. Kopelouzos on his left. Where is Mr Varoufakis, but also Mr Varoufakis' parliamentary representative, who says that we need to mention the name of the specific businessman as often as possible? However, my dear colleague, Mr Varoufakis, the presence of Mr Varoufakis as the only leader he discussed here today in this House would have been much better, without turning into a circus and a group of supporters of the Circus leader in this Chamber this year. Because Mr Varoufakis' appearance might be your concern, but the House embarrasss her. So let us come to the Minutes, because at the end of the day the New Democracy and I think the best or one of the best, in any case, representatives of Mr Brutsis as Parliamentary spokesman was also on the same line, that is to say, to be practical. Mr. Stavros is a practical man. I've known him for too many years, before you know him, I'd found out how practical he is. And you have to be practical when you manage the common things and when a pandemic like COVID falls on your head. Your representative, ladies and gentlemen, has protested because it is not exactly the pandemic and the disease. The Parliamentary spokesman for the extreme right did so in the same way. So we got hit by something we know very well. Or we could say that we don't care and we don't do anything and we go to a country's deportation, or we could say what we did now and say: 'Come here, where there's damage, we'll find the best way to cover it'. And the best way of doing this was rather than paying, as I have heard many colleagues say the taxpayer will pay. Mr. Stakoras explained it earlier. The best way is to get the state, which has a very recent contract with 'FRAPORT', for example, from an income which would have if there were income and I think it is perfectly reasonable. The case of "International Airport of Athens", "Eleftherios Venizelos", where you order it to remain open. You say: I need an international airport to be open, because the country must continue to operate in the middle of COVID. And of course there is now a balance of these things. Don't worry. The forecasts that can be made at the moment are extremely good. That is why airports must not be shut down, so they must not be nationalised. If you have another view, Mr. Pappa, say it. Because after you went up to Stepma after Mr. Varoufakis, I expected you to tell him at least: "If you have those tapes, play them." Instead of telling him the meaning of Shoeble and Dieselblum and how they handed the handshake, which they didn't finally hand it over and many such charlatantics, it's much better to say, Mr. Poppa, since you were there and you had direct knowledge of what Mr. Varoufakis is not saying, and he's supposed to be on tapes or on his mind, which I suspect he doesn't remember well. So we're still waiting for the apocalypse to go down. I'd say things are going in a way that you don't want to admit, while they're for everyone's sake. Let things go well after the COVID, and we haven't had a fight in a while. Let people's jobs and their incomes go better, and we have a long time. As far as the elections are concerned, we have a lot to see. Look, the increase in personal income available in 2020, I at least am surprised by it and thank God for these figures, at least for 40 years. We approached 10,000 per capita. It was much better than anyone expected, much better than 2019 and of course from previous years in this crisis. Consider that the country's maximum in this indicator is the 14,000 euros in 2010. I say this as a small answer to some who complained about the events of the Karamanlis government. Well, the best part was that, and it's still better. We are now at 10,000 in the midst of a crisis in the equivalent individual income and this shows you that possibilities exist even in the fact that the percentage of the population, which has fallen into poverty or poverty, as we call it, is 29%, while 2018 was 32%. So there are opportunities. And the greatest opportunity, if I may, is when one compares the airport of Paros, which was found with good friends, Mr Brutsi, with the airports which Mr Tsipras has fortunately retreated and acted one of the two "voices" that Mrs Merkel had made to him. One was the "FRAPORT" and the other was the word "Macedonia" to disappear from Skopje forever. However, we will discuss these briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou, and the consistency in time. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by mentioning Andreas Papandreou but not an opportunity of the day that twenty-five years has now left us, but for the national, patriotic and development policy he has conducted for the Aegean, for the islands, on the basis of his decision on reduced VAT. And to restore the truth that history should be recorded as it is, VAT, as you know, was introduced in 1987 when neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Republic was Constantine Karamanlis, who did other things for the country and does not need to pay him what he did not do. So the reduction in VAT which, in fact, had a positive effect on the development of the island area, while it had to be extended throughout the island area, unfortunately, despite the fact that the first memorandum withdrew in the second memorandum, the third fell victim to the long-seven-hour negotiation of Mr Tsipras, since we had, of course, been in this difficult situation. I think this is a reckless step that the government is taking. It relies on the fact of migratory flows and the existence of rather now of structures of migrants on these islands, rather than negotiating and making a brave decision that the whole House will support for the total reintroduction of the reduced rate of VAT for patriotic, economic and development reasons. Of course, this step you are bringing is necessary, but it is not the great success as you are presenting it. He was talking, and he had to be extended. So much for success! It will be a success, Mr Stakoura, if you negotiate and achieve the basis on which the reduced VAT must be applied as well as the requirements of the Constitution, as well as the need for the national and development shielding of the island area. It is worth it - and I am thinking of this - because all our political positions in our day-to-day political action are pervaded by this spirit. So I say that after the government's announcements, because everyone mentioned subsidiary insurance, what we can see is that we have a breakdown and undermining of the subsidiary. Extreme promises are given to young insured persons who will start paying immediately and will find out many years later that they were false the promises given to them today. But, of course, for the old insured, who will see the collapse of subsidiary pensions and the undermining of their pensions, and this will also be done by breaking the money and at least 12 billion will be given in order to achieve this policy which is not necessary. The restructuring of insurance must, of course, be done with the completion of the reforms, because here we have many laws with names, Katrugalos, Brutsi, First or Second, we have many laws on social security, but we do not have social security. That's what you've done. At last, then, with dialogue, social consultation and consistency, all political forces need to see what to do about long-term reform, long-term power reform and not opportune and communication policy. There is talk of whether money has been given and how Greece has faced the crisis. Yes, there has been too much money and too much money. The 27 billion for 2020 is one of the highest as a percentage of GDP in Europe, but the result, as we have criticised, was not the same. For 2020 we have 32% above the average of the recession in the European Union. Money was given, but they didn't catch that place. This means that there is also a problem with regard to planning, but above all with regard to priorities and objectives. The government left many large and large social groups without support. I mention, for example, the four hundred thousands of long-term unemployed, who were without support for a long time, the pensioners without pensions, who are a hundred and fifty thousand and have not received any euro support, but also professionals, small and micro-enterprises and farmers. The examples are many. The government refused to support the oil producers. It has been limited to the main profession on the grounds that the European Union has not approved it and I am putting it in comparison with what is decided today on two other companies without the European Union's approval. Grain producers, processors and exports are protesting. It's an endless list. Today in the face of the relaunching and aggregation of the problems that have arisen in the pandemic crisis, there is a transitional framework for support that is administrative, regulatory and economic clearly. There isn't. You consider that the market will automatically return to the pretext or even better. It's not like that. It really needs support, otherwise too much money from the state budget, but also from the Recovery Fund will be spent and will not be exploited, and this will be a lost opportunity that the Greek people will pay. The government is moving through individual and fragmentary decisions. This draft law also recommends individual State support with support to the ‘Athens International Airport’ and ‘FRAPORT’ without guarantees, without guaranteeing the public interest and in particular without transparency. However, there is also a lack of integrated treatment for all economic activities within and around airports and more extensive air transport. We are called upon to ratify a contract without knowing the economic model under which the divergences in revenues are calculated and without the original economic model that was ratified on SYRIZA in 2016 and did not know about it by the Greek Parliament. We have strong reservations because the government with the contract recognises that there is a reason. The Legislative Council of the State stated ‘no’. The Greek government at some point changed its view, but the government did not know why it changed its mind. The Government did not submit the contract to the European Union and did not even provide the Committee with the reports on the certification of the financial compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, the Change Movement has fought to support all those who have been affected on conditions and conditions to ensure public interest and transparency. It goes without saying, therefore, that we would be and are in favour of supporting the country's airports, in order to ensure their proper operation, support for tourism and the service of passengers both internally and abroad. But we will not consent without sufficient documentation and full knowledge of the facts. In addition, there are issues with a number of other activities that normally fulfil their obligations towards the ‘FRAPORT’ and the ‘Athens International Airport’. So I tell you that duty-free shops normally pay the guaranteed rents at the Athens International Airport, but also at all the airports of "FRAPORT" in the pandemic. And that so far may have been reasonable why these two bodies were not suggesting. Now, however, this framework has to be reviewed for the whole of the pandemic. I come to the second issue very soon, namely the decision to support 130 million state aid to the Athens International Airport. Of course, if it were in another form, for example, with an increase in share capital, since the public is already a key shareholder, we would obviously support such a choice without many words. You are granting the aid, but without the approval of the European Union, without safeguarding the public interest and with a simple statement that they are waived by demands to the Greek State. Here is what has happened in two other countries, and I am not talking about Germany, which has referred to the level but not to the conditions. I will tell you about the European Commission communication on Latvia's 'International Airport'. On 8 March, there was aid of EUR 39.7 million, by means of recapitalisation, in terms and conditions for a rapid return of the aid to the State. The international airport has a ban on the payment of dividends and the acquisition of shares other than the State. Until 75% of the amount is redeemed, there will be a strict restriction on the increase in management. Of course, no bonuses will be paid to senior executives. The ‘International Airport of Riga’ should publish all information on the use of the guarantee received. Another example I would like to tell you, and I am ending, is Cyprus. It provided the airport manager with 22 million, but clearly as a loan and not as State aid. So will you, by analogy, commit not to selling 55% of the shares held by the HSE and the superstition so as not to receive the aid from any private investor, as your Latvian counterpart did? Will you do it? I doubt it. Allow me, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u109	Yes, but you've exceeded your time too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. But let me inform the spokesman of Mera25 who spoke a moment ago that we did not vote on the agreement with the International Airport of Athens in 2015-2016. On the contrary, it was your participation in SYRIZA as well. I don't know if you had left. The point is that, regardless of our refusal to accept a scandal revealed by the European Union this time, in any case, this shameful procedure chosen without safeguarding the public interest would be against us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Paulakis. He's mutually changed with Mr. Loverdo. It's a deal. I'm not abusing anyone's order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to thank Mr. Loverdos. I'm glad he gave me his turn, 'cause I have to visit the clinic, and the conversation went a lot. I thought we were gonna be done sooner. Since today is the day that Andreas Papandreou died, one of the greatest political leaders of post-population, I think the best memorial to Andrea is what he has heard: "Get up, Andrea, to see the children of change, Loverdo and Adonne together." But today is not just this day. It's the day the great communist poet, Manolis Anagnostakis died. His poems defined one or two generations. I consider it my duty to read two - three lyrics, starting with my speech: “And he still wanted much light to dawn. But I didn't admit defeat. I was now seeing how many hidden valuables I had to save, how many water nests to sustain in the flames." And I keep going: "There, carefully, in one corner, I gather in order, I wisely praising my last penitentiary, I hang cut hands on the walls, I decorate with the cut skulls the windows, I knit with cut hair my net and I wait. On your feet, and alone as if I were expecting." These lyrics have a lot of messages. And I come to you, Mr. Stakoura. You said fifteen times in your speech: “The 2015 Convention”. To tell you truths, Mr. Stakoura. Is it lying that, on 4-3 2014, in Samara-Venizelos conflict, there was an invitation from the TEAD to grant the fourteen airports on unfavourable terms? Is it lying that on 25-11-2014, while you knew we were coming, did Samaras run and then put the TIADE to sign that he declared as a bidder a "FRAPORT" to a consortium with "SENTEL"? Is that a lie? He ran to sign it on 25-11-2014. That's what you delivered us, Mr. Stakoura! And one parentheses here: you were here before and you were fooling 'we did tax exemptions' and I don't know what. What do you think? Half of them were voted by April, by HISPIA and all the rest. And let me remind you a little: Do you remember what you delivered us? In the public funds, how much money did you give us when you left? Not even 500m euros! Not even 500m euros! And what did we deliver you, Mr. Stakoura? We delivered you 37 billion euros. The last 7 billion badly, I call it that. And now you're making these guys with a steak and getting out of the memorials that others have done, because that's the historical vindication the Pope says. And say something else, to close parentheses: How much was the cost in the Greek society of the two memoranda between 2010 and 2014? Is it a lie that it was 65 billion euros? 2010 was 19,07, 2011 was 18,24 billion euros we are talking about - 2012 was 11,53, 2013 was 10,22 and 2014 was 6 billion euros, 65 billion euros you got - you cut - from Greek society. What we did with the memorandum that we signed after the compromise of 13 July and I will come there as well: our unreliable measures were EUR 9.9 billion. I did not say that it was nothing, but to know what we say, when they were asking for EUR 20 billion and led to the referendum, because that was the result of the negotiation. And if I remove the social dividends of EUR 2 billion and something, 7 billion was what we removed from Greek society. Let's go further than this: Is it a lie that Stathakis, the Minister, had moved on - and is there in the news report of the time - to renegotiate the contract signed by him, this decision, signed by the HIDE? Is it a lie that he had done forty years of the concession twenty-five to thirty, that we would keep 30% of the Greek State, that he would keep the veto right to critical work and that Chania Airport and Thessaloniki Airport were not in the agreement? Is that a lie? Is it a lie - to tell all the truth - that on that dramatic evening of July 13, with the seventeen-hour negotiation by Mr Soibelle, the plaster of pan-European austerity and the architect of the stabilisation programmes, he hit his hand at the table and said to close the airports, such as Samaras and not what Stathakis had agreed? Is it a lie? That is what we signed up for, because we made a compromise at that time, to tell the whole truth, so that the Greek society would know it, and that the various people here would not start with the shitholes, and that would not fit into each other. We made a painful compromise, but the country from the memorials we pulled it out, we gave it to you as we handed it over to you, and now two years you're eating the money and redistributing it for the richest 5%, and you're tearing it apart again, because that's what you're doing two years, Mr. Staikoura, you're not doing anything else. The pandemic's here. Indeed, a global issue has fallen the traffic of airlines and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What would we do in your place, Mr. Stakoura? We will renegotiate the agreement, this is a great opportunity. It's a global event. And you want me to tell you like that, too fat? Because you haven't given the evidence and the facts. Now in one day the DELOITTE has come out that it is EUR 177 million. What do you think? Where are you selling these now? Mr. Villiards has given you, from what I saw, EUR 107 million was the damage that he had and you are giving EUR 177 million. Where did the 'Delloitte' get them off that they are so much and it doesn't get all together? You do well, and you give them not with money but with it. But I would say this: why not tell you? "You will get the 170m euros while you have not worked and have not done it, give us two airports back. Give us two airports back! We cover your chasoura, give us two airports back, return to the Stathakis agreement and I am very specific, Chania and Thessaloniki." Didn't I see where this story would be against you and how much more of the Chania when they haven't made any investment there? So, 110m euros from the ESRB's 2014-2020 programme, we handed it over and ready then, when this agreement was made in the way I said how it was. You said - to finish, because that is what we would do - Mr Stakoura, that you are giving it all and that you are transparent. I have asked you personally and Mr Pittsili of AIAD to tell me how many of those who received a repayable advance made additional tax declarations for 2019 and you make the deaf. Why don't you tell us? How many people got a repayable advance by making further statements in 2019? Why don't you tell us? The Furthite's inside, we know, on the occasion of that we found it. The rest of you who are enough, your clientele, why don't they tell us? So they can yell, huh? To conclude - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - do not come here, Mr Stavura, and say 'we are transparent' because I have caused you two, three times public to do so and you do not. You don't! You're hiding it! What do you have to hide? Did you say that you have given a huge amount to certain families and specific entrepreneurs across Greece, who, in collaboration with accounting offices, made false revenues last year to justify the loss? Why don't you give it to me? With a clique, Pittsili does it, with a button. This is where Pierracakis also owns the works that the Pope left and implements two years later and he also starts up with the other ones - let's say - with the hospitals that still cut and don't work. And I would like to say one last word, then: I have seen today - so why are you going to go back to us - and I am ending this, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - in the bill on Stavros Niarchos, the amendment to the convention, which validates certain things and the others, that they brought in a provision, which you know what it does, Mr Staikora? And I wanted to know: do you know that? He rebuilds the Committee for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and their Compensation Mr Kikilis in the way he was in 2009, not the Committee he will invoice, assess, take the studies, the HTA Agency, but says he is building a committee, and appoints it, and Kikilis can decide regardless of the committee's suggestion. Do you understand? Do you understand what they're doing? So you're going back to the mortar, you're probably turning the territory of the morma like before 2010 that the country went bankrupt. That's what you're doing, Mr. Stakoura! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. The floor is now, after the Stepma is settled, the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kokalis. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me - and I would like, please, a little bit of your attention - to mention three phrases, only three phrases: 'taxes are already falling, deposits and investments are increasing', 'The prospect of the labour market is being deleted positively and the state is borrowing at lower rates', 'We have every reason to be moderately optimistic and citizens have the right to be optimistic', 'The latter may already think about their holidays'. Now I add something of mine: Rape and those who haven't thought of doing the holidays quickly. Who said that? The Prime Minister said it this morning. I'm really in dilemma. If I agree that the citizens are not just feeling, but also have to be optimistic, Minister, and those who have not yet prepared the holidays - that is, the latter - to go, if I agree, I have the impression that I will be out of reality. But if I disagree, they might call me a "green" to tell me that I am making a cheap opposition. It's really a dilemma. The Greek people, who sees it, will judge whether citizens today are entitled and must be optimistic from the health crisis - but also from the economic crisis - or ultimately that is not the case. Minister, I will not compare because the government has to apologise every day and not make cheap opposition to opposition. Elections took place in 2019. Politics is an act, and they are not fussy. You said you reduced the taxes that the previous government put in for dialogue, dialogue. Even if that's the case, is it reason to raise them? With the increase in objective values - I am not an economist, I know little - do not increase about 20 taxes? Aren't benefits reduced? Are tax exemptions not affected at first residence, benefits? And you set up a working group to examine any side effects of increasing objective values. We don't have tax increases? However, we have said, Minister, that politics is an act and it is not a phenomenal one. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, unfortunately the Greek people will soon understand the scale of political fraud. To be honest, because as a lawyer I had, when you announced the issue with the regulation of debts, I called Mr Alexiadis and said to him: 'Send me the Ministry of Finance's decision on this famous 300-dollar arrangement.' We're talking about two hundred forty, two hundred eighty instalments! Like it's a short car! I had the impression that you have adopted - because there are often ministerial decisions - a decision that is favourable to regulation. I note, however, that you mean - and people listen to this - the notorious article 5 - or Article 4, I do not remember - the bankruptcy law, the extrajudicial compromise. In the extrajudicial compromise, Minister, as - I dare to say - the previous ones did not go ahead either, for the simple reason that the banks are not simply not obliged to participate in the extrajudicial procedure that the debtor wants to initiate, but not even to answer that they are refusing. So, how's it gonna work? Why are you telling the world about the last chance to write off loans for debt write-offs? You don't have a plan. You are accusing us of having opposition to the opposition. The programme was recently announced by Alexis Tsipras, but I will refer to a typical example. In the rents you did have support. We don't question it. Is there a plan for the next day to protect the leases, whether they're professional or residential? Do you know that many owners make a choice to the tenants? Specifically they say: "If you were a parole worker, I don't want you. I want a profession more certain." You know there's a problem with business leases? You have drawn up a concrete plan, which unfortunately does not exist. I conclude, Minister, by saying that because we said that, unfortunately, you have become the political figure on 6 March and a month and a half ago, Parliament passed the bill on state aid for earthquake victims. On 6 March 2010, on the website of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Petsas announces direct support to the earthquake affected: "On Monday the first compensation". What Monday was that? Big Monday wasn't. What Monday? Eighteen Months have passed and they have taken up to now 0.68 euros. The EUR 600 corresponds to EUR 0.68 to this day! And Mr. Peaches, with all the cobblestones, talked about home appliances too. Is that now called a fiesta? Should these people be optimistic? They must hurry to go on holiday too, as the Prime Minister said, yes or no? And I close with the last one tomorrow prepared by the Minister for Rural Development, who is going to present the CAP in the region of Thessaly, the new common agricultural policy, when the CAP is not yet completed. And they present it tomorrow, supposedly. The consultation of both the European Parliament and the European Commission has not yet been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Red. He has the floor now, after the Vima has been prepared, the Member of the New Democracy Constantine Maraveyas. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about compensation from the Greek State of 'FRAPORT' for the residual operation of the fourteen regional airports, which have been allocated to it because of the measures to tackle the pandemic last year. We are, however, talking about concessions made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government concerning the upgrading, maintenance, management and operation of regional airports. A similar scheme applies in the case of Athens International Airport SA, which manages the "Eleftherios Venizelos". Furthermore, in response to its crucial role as a management body for a strategic infrastructure for the country, the concessionaire continued the operation of the airport throughout 2020, ensuring the service of the remaining air traffic and national needs. The problem, therefore, is the continued operation of airports at the same time as a lack of revenue, which has a particularly precarious impact on the sustainability of management bodies and the maintenance of jobs. The Government recognises as owes the national importance of such infrastructures which directly or indirectly affect the entire population of the country and attempts to prevent the consequences of any risk to their functioning. And it is something that will have significant social implications, particularly by supporting workers in the air transport and tourism sectors. The continuation of the smooth operation of the airports in the country, of course, is not only a state or a social need. It is a prerequisite for the development of the home and the relocation of the national economy. Here I would like to say a few words about the Recovery Fund and the huge financial programme of EUR 31 billion, which brings the country. A large part of this is dedicated to transport, and very fairly. If Greece wants to increase its special weight internationally and strengthen its geostrategic position, it does indeed have to play the role of an international transport hub, whether we are talking about transit trade, energy, networks or air transport. So state support for these areas is essential, as combined and multimodal transport is necessary, and that is why they are in the priorities of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. One would expect this self-evidently to recognise it somewhat, without stars or doubts. Not only does it accept something as little positive, but it totally rejects the National Recovery Plan as a so-called gift to few and strong, as a political option, which is supposed to lead to economic tolerance and the working middle ages. Somewhere - to tell the truth - I have heard this relatively recently. Does it remind you of anything, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population? Obviously it has nothing to do with the real content of the Recovery Fund, but for you it is a reused propaganda tool against the new job. For Mr Tsipras, therefore, even the Recovery Fund brings work for the middle ages. You will allow me not to comment on SYRIZA's uncontinuation in the thought or lack of any proposal for the future of the country, on how growth will come, on Greece's position in international labour-sharing or, more generally, on the role we can play in the globalised economy after the pandemic. The documented analysis shall be absent together with any positive counter-proposal. And all this, of course, in two years' time now, will be judged by the citizens again. But what SYRIZA says about SYRIZA is certainly worthwhile, not the government or its citizens, but well-known officials, such as Mr Vernardakis, who, in his earlier article, admitted that the party model of SYRIZA is outdated and indeed that those who are now deported outside the mechanisms that Mr Tsipras insists on. And it is true that this is a completely different culture. To control the joints of power has nothing to do with the concept of Mr Vernardakis, who is talking about networks outside the mechanisms, which would also be a genuine expression of society, that is, without being guided by the party, without being the subject of orders that they always carry out for the good of the party. This is a conception of the last century, which also expressed beyond Mr Tsipras and - unfortunately - the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, who said that SYRIZA's inability to rule over the period 2015-2019 was due to the lack of parties based in the public, not in deficits of knowledge or understanding of the problems, but in the lack of sectors of civil servants who would accept the commands of the party chief - minister and do the will of SYRIZA. This was a little too much interpretation, which Mr Katrugalos recently gave in an interview for the new worker when asked why the SYRIZA agenda does not find a response for the workers. Mr. Katrugalos' answer was that the party has no trade union pass. In other words, if SYRIZA had party-controlled unions, as the Communist Party does, things would have been better for Civic Anti-Civilization. So I fear that Mr Vernardakis' view is extreme minority in the Qualified Opposition. Most of you are still looking for how to control the joints of power, to create party mechanisms in public, unionism and so forth, according to an obsolete totalitarian model. But as Mr Vernardakis will tell you, if you ask him, society is unfortunately not following you. Lenin's aggregated model relates only to the Communist Party and the previous century. It is not about the 21st century and it is not about social projects, such as the reduction of unemployment and the protection of labour. Maybe that's why you didn't achieve so much in the last job-mobilizations. You are insisting on political action directed, with lies and ideologies, without proposals, without a perception of modern reality. Only constant denials. For all these reasons you have failed and you will unfortunately also fail in the future. Unless you review and start speaking positively, at least within the House. Only then will political dialogue be meaningful and will it gain its lost institutional weight, if at some point you respond to the proposals of the future with credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u117	And we thank Mr Maraveya for the consistency in time. The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has asked for the floor. And then, of course, Mrs. Theophist Perka will speak. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. It is another bill, which the Government of New Democracy has brought to a standstill, and SYRIZA and the Change Movement are in fact in line with this bill, which confirms the convergence of these parties, of the New Democracy, of the SYRIZA and of the Change Movement, with the policies and policies that meet the needs of capital. And here we have such a shitty example, namely compensation to airports management companies, whether it is 'FRAPORT' or 'Eleftherios Venizelos'. And that's why they're in a difficult position. It is the compensation of a few hundred million euros to these companies and they disagree or show that they disagree with the way in which this compensation will be granted, rather than whether it should be granted. After all, all of us together and jointly claim that all businesses must be compensated for by the pandemic, based on the narrative they have, that we are all on the same ship: both workers and the self-employed, and the unemployed, but also the monopolistic groups. But they forget to say that the consequences are certainly not the same. Just what the government does, as did previous governments, is that in times of crisis they socialise the damages of business groups and at the same time leave them unavoidable or even seek to further shield their profits in the period of profitability, while, on the contrary, those who suffer the consequences of politics and from the crisis are workers, self-employed professionals, small craftsmen. In this respect, we do not simply have to do with a compensation which will be granted because of the pandemic, but in the Convention itself, the revenues of management companies are to be guaranteed at the level of 30 million passengers for the fourteen airports managed by the 'FRAPORT'. Whenever the state falls under this number, it will be forced to compensate this company, not for the lack of profitability but for lost revenue. On the one hand, we are on the other side, and on the other hand try the Mera25, but also the Greek Solution, to resort to a clear account of the fact that this contract is the result of the imposition of a debt colony on the part of the troika and the will of the Germans. Of course, the anguish of Mr Varoufakis, who wants to forget the specific responsibilities he has with regard to the extension of the second Memorandum in December 2015 and the negotiation that led to the third Memorandum. It is trying to cover up these responsibilities and to 'fish in blurred waters'. But in essence they want something much more. They want to cover up the parasitic character of the system, they want to cover up the timeless role of the urban state and our country, but also at pan-European and global level, that it buys very expensively from business groups and sells very cheaply, to ensure that business groups are profitable, to serve the needs of monopolies. And this particular contract we are discussing, which you all claim to be fatherhood - and SYRIZA and New Democracy and the Change Movement as a conflict - is not unprecedented. We have one more and perhaps much more painful contract. It is the contract of motorways which has been signed and which ensures and ensures a certain income to the motorway management companies, so that the State almost every year compensates for the failure to achieve the goal of crossing the motorway companies. And it is not enough simply to compensate them, but it is enough to decide to ban traffic so that the companies concerned do not come to costs by fulfilling their contractual obligations to keep the motorways open during a bad time, as was the case with the recent snowfall in the previous six months. But that's not all. There's more. It was the exemption from the specific motorway construction and management companies from the flooding projects. What's the consequence? Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has launched a competition of several hundred million euros to make the accompanying flooding on the roads. Isn't that another present for the highway management companies? Or the additional compensation to shipowners, despite their huge responsibilities for the level of maritime connection of the island with the mainland, which does not meet the needs of the islands, or for expensive ferry tickets. So all this is nothing but the result of a policy which in every way wants to ensure capitalist development. And in this particular period, then, we have precisely the preparation of our country to make use of the 72 billion of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF, creating an even more favourable environment for business groups, moving forward to the prerequisites for disbursement. And these prerequisites look like they are. It is, for example, the new development law, which will give new incentives to the business groups that the government is preparing to bring. It is the tax exemptions that have been discussed and are scandalously for the benefit of business groups. It is also a large package of measures that have been taken which in essence exempt the capital from the minimum tax burdens it has had. And while, on the one hand, we have all these measures, which serve the needs of business groups, on the other, we have the monetarism, the abortion, the new labour law, which is basically being destroyed by eight hours, which makes workers even more flexible, and which forms the working space based on the needs of business groups, leading to the intensification of workers, the creation of a mechanism for the promotion of cheap and consumable workers by attacking trade union rights and organising the struggle. At the same time, this crime against the working class is being completed with the new draft law on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, which was discussed at the Ministerial Council today, and which is nothing but the continuation of all the reinsurance laws, which have come to date by the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA, which, in essence, transforms insurance on an individual basis by privatising subsidiary insurance for the benefit of both insurance companies, which will manage this money, but also, in essence, offer warm money to entrepreneurs through the gambling of the laborers' lives on the financial markets. This is a robbery of the workers' sweat, which will, in a long time, bring together several tens of billion euros. So these prerequisites are nothing, they are the memorials, they are the European memorandum of the Recovery and Resilience Fund to ensure the rapid return to capitalist recovery, a capitalist recovery uncertain, which will prepare the ground for a new crisis, but which, above all, will be an unjust growth at the expense of the rights of workers, the self-employed, the professionals leading to a concentration of economic activity in a handful of monopolies, and at the same time a concentration of the wealth created by workers in the handful of capitalists. On the contrary, the vast majority will see even greater expansion of the lane between the possibilities of satisfying the people's needs and the level of this satisfaction. That is why it is not the working class and other popular strata that expect nothing from this government, but at the same time also to overcome the obstacles that the other parties are creating to encapsulate popular discontent within this system, but to organise their struggle even beyond those difficulties which the new anti-unionist law has brought to the heart of the real responsibility of the problems facing our people over time, namely the interests of business groups, the European Union's policy and the whole of the parties that manage this policy. On this road and it can prevent the deterioration of the position, but above all it can pave the way for more overall ruptures and twists. It is clear from the position of our rapporteur, Mrs Manolakos, that the JRC will vote against the specific compensation resulting from the concession agreement and the fourteen regional airports at the "FRAPORT" and the management of the "Eleftherios Venizelos". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too, Mr Karathanasopoulos and the consistency in time. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mrs. Theophistis Perka, now has the floor. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying this because there has been a lot of talk of a contractual obligation. Mr. Brutsi said so. Of course Mr Paulakis also said so about how we found the contract and everything. But that's not the point. We're defending the contract. And we're gonna go with the contract. And, Minister, you haven't answered that yet. We have been watching for over a year an attempt, we have made a series of parliamentary questions, topical questions, and we have never been answered. And the Eleftherios Venizelos airport and the ‘FRAPORT’ requested State aid because of the pandemic. The "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport called for force majeure - and its contract describes it - and the "FRAPORT" for an adverse event. You have shown us, Minister, a piece of paper that you say that 'FRAPORT' has been called for 'for force majeure'. I'm looking forward to it. But I think I'm not mistaken and I'd like to see it. Because the letters of 'FRAPORT' called for a 'favourable event', and this had to be done within deadlines. The company can't change what it's asking for and how it's asking for the compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u121	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u122	Good! Let's see. Because I have a letter that 'FRAPORT' calls for 'complexity'. In any case, in order to obtain any compensation, the pandemic should be legally designated. What is it? Is this force majesty? Is this a fact of public responsibility? Is this an adverse event? That's not what happened. Instead, an extension on the payment of outstanding debts for a six-month period was granted by the dear method of the PPP. And then, in fact, we were telling you "who can't pay it now that 2019 was over-profitable, how can it be?" And he really couldn't do it in a semester, which is why we're here. However, I would remind you that in 2019 there were over-profits, had a record of passengers and bonuses were granted to the ‘FRAPORT’ executives. So we have arrived today and, of course, we are constantly hearing here that all this is the result of the provisions of the concession agreement and everything else. First of all, let us say that the conventions, of course, must be honoured, respected, unless we enter another negotiation. Mr Paulakis said very well that we could, because it is the Memorandum of Understanding and now another. But anyway, that's not the point. It also provides for arbitration, for example, which one can discuss, there are special articles. This was not the case. There was an effort and it was worth mentioning that you initially tried to incorporate this compensation into the funding package that Greece will receive in the context of the pandemic. However, the Commission rejected this request. So call on Article 3.1 on public responsibility and go beyond the other two articles, which are more specific, such as adverse events and force majeure. First of all, I would like to say here that nobody will disagree that there has been a great fall in air transport, and this is mainly due to the restrictions imposed by all the countries - not only by the Greek public - internationally and of course there are restrictions, there are countries that still have restrictions. Now the question is whether this is a fact of public responsibility and I will tell you this. Article 30.4.1, states that if the revenues of the concessionaire are reduced due to insufficient performance due solely to a public liability event, then the State shall compensate the concessionaire. Based on what we have read, we all understand that even if we recognise public responsibility, this is not exclusive. So how do these result from the contract? We talked about 2019. It is foreseen that it will not pay the annual concession fee for the years 2019, 2020, 2021. For 2019 why? We said that it had over-profits, and we said that it was indeed - positive - that is a record of arrivals - of departures. I also note that under the contract, the annual rent is the minimum guaranteed income, i.e. it receives the public no matter what. That's what the contract says. We also read that the compensation contract is offset by the variable concession fee, which will be due from 2022 onwards, but provided that the passenger traffic reaches 30 million eight hundred thousand passengers. Otherwise we're seeing again. You're talking about a trustworthy arrangement, which will happen if traffic continues. You didn't explain what the worst scenario would be. Mr. Skylakakis told us that arbitration in general is not working well. Minister, the SYRIZA Government with Minister Christos Spirtzi went to refereeship to the 'FRAPORT' he asked for 82 million - is the case of the burned lamps - and the price was almost zero, according to the contract. And in any case, he says, "he will not distribute any dividends to the shareholders." Alas, if he didn't do that. Another point, however, I would like to say is that paragraph 33 states that the concessionaire will pay all the costs of the Technical Dispute Resolution Committee and the remuneration of its members. We see that in other conventions you're bringing. Checks are paid by the controller. In any case, what we say, at least, with the concessions, which is a very big chapter, is this. Do you always know the reason for the concessions? We're doing seminars as engineers. The businessman takes a risk that the Greek State does not take. That takeover of the risk we haven't seen. We talked about the burnt bulbs. As far as the state aid of the Athens International Airport is concerned, at least there is more clearly. By way of derogation from any other provision, it's just fine and simple without looking to match any article, we're done. There is nothing to be said about, however, for the rest of the country's airports, the most vulnerable, nothing. The Ministry of Defence is underfunded, does not pay the officials, and is at the mercy of the airports of the smaller islands, which remain in the Greek state. We must take care. I'll give you a parentheses. Mr. Karamanlis isn't here because it's a favorite thing we've always fought about. What about the AAA, this government independent authority? There is a reasoned opinion from the European Commission, which gives a two-month deadline to respond, because to date the ADA is not a body of sound thinking. If the APA existed, this contract would pass through the APA audit conference, if it complied with the contract, which are the articles. He wasn't coming here. But the ADA, which had to take control, and all that still does not exist. There's been a commander with an unrecognised degree, of course, according to your custom and beyond, nothing personal. Finally, we have repeatedly said that the Greek state must support air transport in general. But there must be a specific framework and not a fragmentary arrangements which will surely lead to unfair competition, in violation of national and Union law. We are also talking about exchanges and guarantees. You mentioned, Minister, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, two very good examples have been heard here. I will tell you about 'FRAPORT'. It has an airport in Antalya, Turkey, which has a traffic of thirty-four million passengers - one airport, all of us together have thirty - and only an extension of the rental was granted. And Slovenia's ‘FRAPORT’ airport provided the government's audit if the damage is lower, the excess amount will return it to the State. That's what Slovenia did. But I'll say a little bit about the airplanes. He spoke about Portugal and the 'TAR'. The ‘TAP’ is 50% state-run, for ‘ALITALIA’ it has been debated very seriously as a result of aid and the State has increased from 50% to 75%. ‘AIRFRANCE’ and ‘KLM’ took 11 billion, but the public took part and has commitments to reduce carbon dioxide. LUFTHANSA got 9 billion, another 25% public extra shares, members on the board with veto, veto. We in 'Aegean' gave 120 million and all good. Look at what's going on and over. I'm done. I'll propose to you. Mr Paulakis did one, but I will make it more 'large'. Any aid now being given on condition that, in future, the money is fully repaid. It's fair and it's simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. And we'll close with Mr. Yannis Loverdos, Member of the New Democracy, colleagues who speak in a natural presence. And immediately afterwards, Mr. Consolas and Mr. Voloudakis. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, let us speed up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Loverdos is always a lacon, although he's not a Lacon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u126	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Because Mr. Scandalidis said so, I'd say something else. But what is happening, Mr Scandalidis - you are a very old parliamentarian, I, an old parliamentarian - with Members who do not have any position, whether ministerial or parliamentary, is unacceptable and that at some point should change. We have few Members, the Minister speaks as much as he wants, the parliamentary representative speaks as he wants, the Minister speaks as much as he wants, the parliamentary representative speaks again and the Member is the last. I think there is abuse because you said so, Mr Scandalidis, and I wanted to point it out. I've been meaning to point it out for a long time. Because it was mentioned earlier by Mr Heta from the Greek Solution and by Mr Papapas, about hard neoliberalism, because these ideological discussions liked very much, I would like to recall that the official New Democracy ideology since the first Halkidiki conference on Constantine Karamanlis was radical liberalism. What was radical liberalism? Radical liberalism, of course, also refers to the title of the first party of the late Karamanlis, EPE, but also refers to a liberalism that comes to stop, then left perceptions, socialist perceptions, and to stop the impression that the New Democracy is not a people's party. The New Democracy is both a liberal and a people's party. Then what did Karamanlis say at the '79 Halkidiki conference? Radical liberalism means that we recognise market freedom, but by state regulation for reasons of social justice. This is the phrase of Constantine Karamanlis in '79. What did he mean? "Social justice" was a concept which was very fashionable at the time. Today there is no, it has retreated, and has reasonably retreated. It means, however, that we want a protection net for the socially weak citizen. This is the ideology of the New Democracy and, as we call it, this ideology, this clear ideological orientation runs through the New Democracy from then on. And I would say that neoliberalism - which is a construction, there is no neoliberalism in the sense of at least the left - is the translation into Greek of the neo-conservation of Thatcher in the 1970s and Regan in the 1980s. It has more to do with the recognition of market forces and the freedom of "business" and it has nothing to do with the hard liberalism, which you on the left, especially you on the left, the neoliberalism of Adam Smith, laissez-faire, laissez-passer or the "invisible hand" that regulates everything in the market. We believe in the power of 'enterprise', we want freedom of the market, we want strong businesses, but there is a state regulation and intervention where it needs to be, in order to protect the socially weak. This is the true concept of neoliberalism and not what is supposedly presented from the left. And I say this because since I am attending this sitting I have heard speakers say from the Step forward that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis or New Democracy is in favour of business. In fact, they were calling it cold! Of course we are in favour of businesses. Alas, if we weren't in favour of business. Nowhere in the world is there an economy without businesses, without businesses healthy, strong that produce and deliver. That is what we want and that is what we want. And without business there are no workers. That is something we must not forget. You on the left want something unprecedented. You want there to be no business, no business, no profit for businessmen, but all employees to be paid as much as they want. Hey, that can't be! They went to test it in the Soviet Union and failed miserably. We do not believe in the state - businessman. At the same time, however, we believe in the regulatory role of the state. And the bill, which we are discussing today, is exactly that part. To support the businesses that were affected during the pandemic. Do not think that as a liberal I am happy that the state needs to intervene to support the private sector. But this is an extraordinary occasion. The pandemic is an unprecedented occasion. It's never been in human history before. That is why the same happened in all the countries, even in the United States, which is the most capitalist, as you call it, a country in the world. Because there has to be intervention. And the intervention in Greece, badly lied, was very great. It's already over 40 billion euros! That's a huge amount! And don't tell that story about the pillow that SYRIZA left. It was very heavy what the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis had to lift on its shoulders and Christos Stagiras himself, as well as those who are in the Ministry of Finance. It was too heavy a load. However, we did. We hope that thanks to low lending and long repayment time, we will manage public debt in the coming years as well. However, what remains a priority for us - and here we end with the pandemic, tomorrow we fly the masks, we finish and we move forward in front of business - is the rules business, it is the healthy sector that will get the country and the economy out of the deadlock after the pandemic. That's what we want. And because in his speech Christos Stakos also referred to tax exemptions, I would like to say not only that he said them properly, but that I should also focus on him - because of course it is not just his decision, but also the government's overall decision - that we need even greater tax relief. We want a private sector that can breathe with tax relief. This means strengthening the middle-class and not subsidies and subsidies. There is no business activity with allowances and subsidies. We did this at the pandemic, we won't do it forever! The freelance professional to operate, the small and medium-sized enterprises, which we support, in order to operate, needs less regulation, less suffocating control by the state and less taxes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, and the consistency in time. And to finish with the speakers through Webex, I will now give the floor to Mr Emmanuel Konsola from New Democracy, and then give it the floor for three minutes to those who want to speak. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity today at a very important time to discuss an issue concerning the granting of regional airports, which is a key development pole for our country and, above all, for our region. Ensuring and strengthening our high tourism identity is highly dependent on the air transport sector, which we all know in Greece now. Our country will now have new and modern infrastructure by upgrading the fourteen regional airports, with the forthcoming construction of the new major airport in Kastelli, Crete, but also with the planned and enforced upgrading of the twenty-three regional airports, for which I will make a special mention by tabling a specific proposal at the end of my speech. The bill we are debating today is directly linked to our tourism support. I imagine everyone is aware that financial support and support measures for the operation of the fourteen regional airports have as a reference our tourism also horizon for the future. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. However, it provides for compensation for damages caused, as in the case of restrictive measures imposed by the Greek State on movements. But I prefer to focus on data and figures, which make it necessary to support the fourteen regional airports. In 2020, Mr President, due to the pandemic, passenger traffic in the fourteen regional airports decreased by 70.5% compared to the corresponding 2019 data. The compensation provided for in the bill will be offset by the annual and variable price of the concession fee for 2019, 2020 and 2021, while by the vote of the draft law the ‘FRAPORT’ automatically waives any other claim for 2020 due to the measures to address the pandemic. A corresponding financial aid shall also be paid to the Athens International Airport S.A... In both cases, the aim is to support our tourism, the central sector of transport and the maintenance of jobs, because there are workers and professionals in all these airports. I should also point out that such measures to support airport management schemes and airlines, due to the consequences of the pandemic, have also taken other European countries. As I mentioned at the beginning of my position, the concession agreement for the fourteen regional airports to a strategic investor is linked to their upgrading, with new infrastructure and investments, and to the strengthening of the tourist current. I believe that the conditions now require us to create a new and attractive framework for the concession of other regional airports. In the case of airports, such as Kalamata, there will be a strong investment interest fuelled by the dynamic rise in the airport, as well as the tourist infrastructure developed in the wider region. I believe, however, that there should also be a coherent and attractive framework for the use of other regional airports, particularly in the small islands. There are high traffic airports, moving over 100 thousand passengers on an annual basis, with figures from 2019. These are the airports of Karpathos, Chios, Alexandroupolis and Araxos. These airports could, Minister, form a cluster, be granted all four together to a strategic investor. From there, however, there are small regional airports, especially on small islands such as Kalymnos, Leros, Astypalea, Kastelorizo and Kassos, with an annual passenger traffic of less than thirty thousand passengers on an annual basis. The geopolitical footprint of these islands and the strategic choice of supporting alternative tourist destinations require the exploitation of these airports, which have been delivered to the wear of time. We must therefore opt for the best model of their exploitation, since it will be very difficult to find a private investor - a strategic investor for airports with such a low annual passenger traffic. I therefore believe that, for these airports on the smaller islands, a PPP model can be chosen, which is not only about management, but also about infrastructure and modernisation projects for these airports, but also about a sum, which will pay the private Greek State, and which will be in direct connection with objectives linked to the increase in traffic at these airports. I believe it is a realistic proposal, which opens new prospects for the development and development of small island airports. Ladies and gentlemen, multicentric tourism development, which is a structural element of the New Democracy's government programme for tourism, requires modernisation and new infrastructure in the air transport sector. It is a prerequisite that no one can pass by dogmatism and clamps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Consola. We continue with our colleague, Mr Manossos - Konstantinos Voloudakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. After what happened with my colleague Mr. Consola and me, I would like to say that I hope... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u131	The connection's off. We'll reconnect later. In order to win time, I will now give the floor to Mr Scandalidis for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I think that all this afternoon we have seen the image of a parliament, which fails to exercise its crucial national role and resort to endless verbal controversies, which is not an honour to democracy. Once again we have become viewers in a thousand-played project: deep analyses, ideological riots, selective historical memory, unscrupulous references. And since Andreas Papandreou has his honor, who is now invoked by him and by some of the hated enemy, he suddenly became a philosopher, let the historical hybris stop here, especially those who only refer to him insulting his memory. All this in a debate, which was due to end in two hours, to ask questions if the government can answer them, to answer them and to determine each of us's positions. And I believe that our position is clear as far as our vote is concerned. The answers, which we received, retain our reservations and manifestly vote'residents' in principle,'residents' on Article 1 for 'FRAPORT' and 'no' on Article 2 for the International Airport of Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Now I will give Mr Voloudakis the floor, because we are reconnected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of these holidays at the teleconferencing I said that I hope it will be the last time that we have been talking about improving health conditions and that most of us, almost all, are now vaccinated with two doses of vaccine - and I, together, therefore, believe that we can speak physically in this House. In any case, these protocols are still being observed and I am talking from here. I have two words to say, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the compensation of the "FRAPORT" and "International Airports of Athens" "Eleftherios Venizelos" for the conditions of pandemic and the needs of the state's arrangements to deal with the pandemic. The need for compensation arises out of the contract and is, in general, a reasonable thing. As the undertakings were generally compensated, which were affected by the pandemic and the measures taken by the State to deal with the pandemic, such as those companies, airports which were particularly affected by the obstacles to tourism, it is reasonable, in principle, to compensate them. After all, that is why many other countries have done so. It comes from the contract, I said. In fact, something has been done that is better for the public than what is provided for in the contract. It is not the payment of the concessionaire or the international airport ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’, but it is by netting, with the rents the concessionaire would pay to the Greek State. That is better than that provided for in the convention and credited by the Minister of Finance. Since that is the case, and the reasonable reason given the pandemic conditions, and the obligations under the contract, and the fact that the compensation comes with a set-aside, obviously because SYRIZA votes'residents' in this bill. SYRIZA, who brings destruction to the slightest, in this bill, which is the truth that it is crucial for the course of tourism in our home country, SYRIZA votes "residents". It doesn't bring disaster this time. You see, history has brought them so that, before 2015, those who broke their garments for the terrible dramas that will happen in our homeland with the rental of airports were the ones who eventually signed the contract at the end of 2015, those who, by their vote in Parliament, ratified these conventions. And since I hear SYRIZA's colleagues develop various theories about how they had to do it, about how much they did not betray their principles and I do not know what else, I would like to recall that, in addition to what we have said so far, Mr Tsipras himself, Prime Minister of a few months before signing the contract, he said that the price offered by FRAPORT, of 1.4 billion, was a good price for what the company was receiving. This is about history and not to try to present us with the white as black, those who have raised this job in a profession, have done this practical profession. Now, I would like to add a few words about a more specific clause in the convention, which is not linked to the compensation, but which must be said. Because the 'FRAPORT' in particular has inadmissible the implementation of a condition of its contract. I refer to the condition of the installation of a new approach radar at the airport "I.SKALOGIANNIS" in Chania. I have repeatedly brought this matter to the House. I have tabled a question and again tabled a question to answer it. By February 2020, the ‘FRAPORT’ was rightly invoked by the truth that it had not been given the specifications to invest in the new approach radar. Since February 2020 this is not true. And the delay is now the same. Although I have brought this matter to Parliament, I have published it again and again, 'FRAPORT' does not give a convincing answer. Here, Minister, and you and the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, must put the maximum pressure on you. This issue may be a small investment in some millions in relation to the amount of the total contract or to the subject, which we are discussing today, but it is an issue that is very important to the local economy of Chania and Crete, because the new approach radar is necessary so that more planes can land in peak periods than they can today. We hope to have so many planes soon. In any case, because these things are not done from one day to the next, we must be prepared not to lose a single flight that could come to the airport of Chania and does not come because there is at the time of the peak weakness. This is therefore an obligation of 'FRAPORT', which is a contractual obligation. The Greek State must impose on 'FRAPORT' the implementation of this investment and we must not forget that, in the case of the airport of Chania, 'FRAPORT' did not make substantial investments. He took it ready. That's what matters. And we must in any case ensure that the contract is implemented, because it will only seem that wherever this agreement is implemented, there are benefits greater than any cost. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to see why we should clearly show that we are not like those who say others, because we are not the ones who have been elected since 2015 and signed a few months after the convention, until 2019, have not even raised the issue at 'FRAPORT' and have left an endless bureaucratic debate between the Civil Aviation Service and the Air Force General on the specifications. And since this is the case, so that there are no confusions, I would ask you to see it and ensure that, under the contract already in existence, the "FRAPORT" will also invest at Chania airport, at the airport "I.DASKALGIANNIS", as it is required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. The floor is now held for three minutes by the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Nikos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I am really sorry that, at the end of the debate, we must state that the explanations given on the part of the Ministry were not sufficient. We do not understand why there was insufficient transparency, as we requested. We do not understand the reason, Mr Stakoura, which leads you to choose not to table in the practically critical letters you have exchanged with the company. They could make us all wiser. In any case, if you keep a reservation, we hold ten. And that will judge our final vote. I would like to say straight away that in your final position you should not ignore a question that has been dominated, I would say to you, following the statements made by the Ministerial Council. You don't obviously have an insurance responsibility, Mr. Stakoura. But you have made a decision on the Ministerial Council, which gives rise to a shocking financial result. The privatization of subsidiary insurance will either mean huge cuts in current benefits, or the public will be called upon to cover the hole. And to cover the cost of the transition of current obligations. I asked my previous position. I would like a clear answer. Are there any proportionate studies? Is the amount in which the cost of the transition to the compensation, anti-social, alleged insurance scheme is determined? From this question, no government can escape or override it. How rather you will be summoned I imagine not only before the National Representation but also in any agreement you have begun with the partners on this policy. Or haven't you started? Explain exactly what the cost will be. We hear from here and there that there are these proportionate studies, that there has also been a presentation by Mr Tsakloglu very recently. We would like to have a clear answer for the Greek taxpayer to understand what the marble is, who will be asked to pay to privatise his subsidiary insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too, Mr. Pappa. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I will not fall into the moral curse you have committed. The only answer you found to give my word was a mud and distortion. But let's see what bothered you so much. What got you so mad at? You guys don't talk that way. What got you so mad at? That we're asking for a simple and self-evident thing. To leave the shadows above you give us the legal opinion, the work that gave you some public service, which says that you need to compensate the "FRAPORT" for all its escaping gains. It's a service document. Find it. Give it to us. Make it public. Do you know what we have here? We have the 'FRAPORT' to come and ask for EUR 174 million. Subsequently public lawyers say "your arguments do not apply. You are not entitled to this amount.’ To get Greece to arbitration and suddenly Mr. Stavros to come with Mr. Mitsotakis with a personal decision and choice, without any legal advice, at least no written by any government agency and say "stop the arbitration, we will not give 174, we will give 177 million euros for now and we will see how much we will give for time". You are creating a precedent by turning the public into a pandemic. It is a precedent both for 'FRAPORT' and for other multinationals right and left to which we are giving our infrastructure. The people we are asking at some point to come to the public's hands, to come again to the hands of the citizens. These contracts with which you are bound backwards this country, this place. So will you hand us this letter? The 'FRAPORT' that asks you for 174 million and you give it 178. Attention. I'm not saying it costs Greece 178 million. As the Legal Council says, we will have many more costs related to taxes, which will not be paid, with too many things. Oh, no. 178 million is what they get. What it costs is a lot more than that. But if you are so hobbard, compensate for the evasive gains of any small and medium-sized businessman and the self-employed. So do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Now the Special Rapporteur has the floor for three minutes, if he wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u140	No, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much. Does SYRIZA's rapporteur - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Tryphoon Alexiadis want the floor for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u142	No, Mr. President. I was covered by the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u143	We're closing down with Mr. Spanakis, who's asked for the floor. Mr Scandalidis has spoken very little. Mr. Spankee, please, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I will be very brief, but we must in this Chamber say some truths and answer important questions. This is probably not the case with the New Democracy Government and the Ministry of Finance, but the anti-population groups, which tomorrow will be called upon to respond to thousands of workers in dozens of branches, because, with their current attitude in Parliament, they turn their backs to tourism and to thousands of workers we know very well that tourism is a pillar of the Greek economy. One question: What are you going to say tomorrow? But let's go to specific things. At the Ministry of Finance, the Minister gave us the opportunity to see all relevant documents. For a long time we have analysed and even had a constructive dialogue between the parties' representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been inaccuracies in this Chamber. You have challenged the attitude of the Minister of Finance, the effort of the Minister of Finance and his staff, who are very mature and responsible, to ratify a contract which is for the benefit of the Greek State. In order not to jeopardize and not to misinform the Greek society, this penalty is for the benefit of the Greek public in all respects. Because I like the documents, Mr President, to see dates, do you know when the letter to the Minister of Finance was made to notify the public responsibility? 27th of March. Do you know what the Minister of Finance replied to the concessionaire? On 29 April, after a month and two days, she answers that "I have a reservation on the legal status of the pandemic". However, the events ran very fast. Let's see what the data are called international prestige control houses. The data are that for both group A and group B, we had a 23.24% drop in group B from 1-1-2020 to 31-3-2020, 55.07% fall from 1 March to 31 March, 95.63% from 23 March to 31 March and in group A 22.05% fall between 1-1-2020 and 31-3-2020. We have too many other data. Let's say that there was some correspondence to FRAPORT, if the company was insured by the demilitarisation unit on March 19th and it comes on March 22nd and answers that it did not have an obligation, which is the result of the contract signed by the SYRIZA Government. And you come here today to leave shadows, risk and leave to God's mercy thousands of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask: what is your proposal? Don't you want the proper operation of the airports? You don't want to keep tourism up and move on? Finally, look at what is going on throughout Europe that supports their airports in every way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u145	Finish, Mr. Spaniard. The others were shorter. You've become understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u146	So the government's attitude is specific, it is clear and we proceed with responsibility, and today's sanction is for the benefit of the Greek State, and indeed the concessionaire resigns from any claim against the Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. We close today's session with the placement of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Christos Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll put myself in total. I will not need more than ten minutes, but I must respond to many issues, most of which are not related to the bill, because most of them were not related to the bill - Mr Scandalides rightly mentioned - but they cannot be left unanswered. I shall begin by trying, desperately and today, to set off the New Democracy line, those who are constantly engaged in ideological transformations and political cyberns. We in the New Democracy, the longer party in our country, are constantly serving from our founding texts until now the principles and values of social and radical liberalism, the social market economy, which ensures the maximum economic efficiency and the socially fairer distribution of income and wealth. We have shown over time that we know and can also increase national wealth to increase it better and share it fairer. That's it for the New Democracy. Others are the ones that I will repeat today - and they have demonstrated it today - that they are political convoys, initially against the 'FRAPORT' and the convention, after which they voted for the 'FRAPORT', nowadays, by constantly seeking an argument not to say 'yes'. In committee, when I suggested that all parties should come to my office and see all the documents, no one insisted on being submitted to the Minutes. After this happened, today all of a sudden goalpost changes and they say "Okay the explanations, but you did not submit them in the Minutes". It is always an excuse not to say 'yes' clearly. In committee - I repeat, see the Minutes - you have agreed to come and see the texts. No one insisted on being submitted to the Minutes. And yet we did it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u149	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u150	Mr Arseni, do not interrupt and please respect the Minister. You regularly say the word that you edited. It's heavy and you'll have to substantiate it. Please. You have no reason, but as President-in-Office I have heard you many times. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u151	My colleague has a particular weakness in creative ambiguity, as does his party. However, the achievement of ambitious objectives for the country presupposes and requires from all of us some elements. It requires the implementation of policies with social protection and justice, the commitment to achieving collectively acceptable objectives, the continuous improvement of institutions, the effective implementation of laws and the political consultation, which requires sincere and realisticity, elements that the current government has, but unfortunately does not have the largest part of opposition, particularly the Civilian Opposition. I have heard various speakers from SYRIZA today talking about objective values. Obviously, I do not want to talk today about objective values, but I do not want it to be understood that I do not do so. Indeed, we have set up a working group to evaluate any reform of the objective values, because you all say that the objective values will be increased. Isn't there a 20% population that will see reduced objective values? Isn't there a 30% population that won't see any change in the objective values? What do you say to these citizens? So we come and say, as a government, that as long as the exercise of the inclusion of objective values in the new property taxation, we will work so that there is no burden on the citizen on other taxes or other allowances. I repeat it in the clearest way. It was also reflected in the medium-term context. We do not want to take any more than this exercise. It does not imply any increase of objective values in part of the Greek society automatically and an increase of HISPIA. We've told it to all tons. And in order not to forget, on 9-6-2021 Mrs Ahtsioglu said on the radio 'REAL': 'That the objective values should be adjusted to those trade that are higher, that is something that needs to be done'. Out-of-court settlement. You said various things by confusing bankruptcy law with the settlement of debts. What is being done with the extrajudicial compromise is essentially an electronic platform so that citizens can regulate their private debt as a whole, a problem that we have not faced in the past decade. And I would like to tell you that with the data that I received a few months ago in less than a month, in fact in about twenty days' time, they have applied for twenty thousand five hundred seventeen and seventy of our compatriots, of whom 12 thousand ninety-eight have an active final application and are waiting for the data from the creditors. This shows that the conditions are being created so that an important part of our society can regulate its private debt as a whole. Mr Colleague, when it comes to the legislation on restructuring the insurance system, the relevant positions will be taken when it is ready by the relevant Ministry and will obviously be accompanied by the proportionate studies. Mr. Mera25's colleague, I didn't throw any mud. I've never done it. As long as I am in the Greek Parliament, we are making a clear stand and - I will repeat - not with creative ambiguity, as you and your party's leader are used to at the time of the famous period. As far as the letter is concerned, because I heard a number of SYRIZA colleagues, who were obviously not at the meeting, but were indeed a very worthy official on the part of SYRIZA, who sat too many hours - I said it in my prototype - who saw this document. The document in question, the letter of 'FRAPORT' to the Ministry of Finance, was invoked by the rapporteur of the parliamentary majority on 27 March. ‘In any event all of this constitutes a fact of force majeure, non-prevention or predictable even in the event of a particular wisdom being shown by the Parties to the concession agreements. Therefore, the provisions of the 2015 concessions, activated with the above mentioned events, include the provision of Article 25 of the concessions and for these reasons we present the present and the notification of force majeure.’ So no one can question what the company was asking for. Mr. Kokalis today invoked the Prime Minister's position at the Minister's Council of Ministers and said: 'But is optimism justified? Is there such an economic climate for optimism?’ I will repeat that a realistic optimism is warranted and because Mr Kokkalis spoke about the economic climate, I will present in the minutes the relevant table, which I have presented to the Ministerial Council, which shows a significant improvement in the economic climate in recent months. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, the economic climate in Greece, in households and businesses, reaches pre-coronial levels. Is that a triumph of triumph? No, but it is a pragmatic element of reality, as is the evidence of the recovery of the Greek economy. I would like to say to you that in the medium term which we have tabled today and will be discussing in the House next week, the Ministry of Finance argues that growth in 2021 will be 3.6%. All precursors of indicators lead to better results. The State Budget Office in Parliament speaks of growth that can reach up to 4.8%, Piraeus 6.4%, the National Bank 5.7%, the Scope Ratings 6.5%. Are these unrealistic? All these elements are more positive than those presented by the Treasury. I repeat: we have realistic optimism, but it wants caution and wisdom. I'm filing the data on the regulars. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have heard another colleague from the Qualified Opposition say: 'You left us 500 million in the funds and left you 37 billion euros.' First of all, a simple question: If we left you 500 million, given that at the time Mr Varoufakis said: 'We don't want the money, we make it comfortable for six months', how did you finance the real economy for 500 million? You obviously know the truth! It was the cash available to the general government that otherwise existed in the New Democracy and which had then become a change in 2014 and because they did not reach you, we volunteered them from the commercial banks and then by order of SYRIZA by the commercial banks you transferred them from the Bank of Greece and made them change. That money! So the 37 billion that you are saying is essentially a piece - a SYRIZA colleague said very sincerely - that should not be created and that were the surpluses of Greek society and two instalments, which were not used, and the other part is the cash available to the general government that accumulated in the central government. I have heard the same colleague say what bad things the 'FRAPORT' and in Chania. I think it is the same colleague who said he would lie down on the runway in Chania to prevent the airport from being privatised in Chania, but then voted for a provision. Let me remind you that in Thessaloniki when the presentation was made by the "FRAPORT" next to me was Mr. Spirtzis, who represented SYRIZA in order to demonstrate that the Qualifying Opposition contributes to the implementation of these works. Obviously, something's changed today. Mr Kegeroglu honestly said that a lot of money was given, but they did not get a place because the recession was very deep in Greece, the third worst in Europe. I'm sorry, but let's start by the fact that the assessments of the whole opposition were between 12% and 15% recession and it seems to be around 8%. Secondly, I should like to remind you - and everyone should know that - that the worst quarter of Greece was the third quarter because of tourism. Whatever money you'd give if the tourists didn't come from abroad, how will you get revenue from the tourism? Or even give the money, where's the other guy going to spend since it's a closed economy with all these months lockdown? Haven't you seen how much the deposits have increased? Haven't you noticed that for the past 15 months household deposits have increased? It is EUR 33 billion more than deposits over the last two years. It is therefore clear that there could be no consumption of the increased resources provided by the Greek Government. And how many did he give? He gave 41 billion euros. I have heard the argument from another opposition party that we are giving these companies and we are not giving the citizens. I'm sorry, but 40 of the EUR 41 billion have gone to workers, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to farmers, to EUR 600 million to property owners, to borrowers of EUR 700 million, to unemployed and to free traders. I'm filing the relevant table that proves it. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I heard the dreadful thing: we left you 35 to 36 billion, which is why you gave money and helped society. I just heard that we didn't help society, now we helped society, but that's because of the funds that SYRIZA left. What we have given, that is, 41 billion euros, 2020 and 2021 to help affected households and businesses have been collected by New Democracy. Today cash is as much as we received it, i.e. EUR 34.6 billion, and we have also paid 80% of the International Monetary Fund. The resource inputs are 27 billion euros from the international capital markets, 1,935 from the profits of ANFAs and SMPs, 5.2 from the "SURE", 2,040 euros issued by private-sector bonds, 1,300 times the replacement of common-capital interest rates, 2,800 times the increase in interest rates of Greek government via the budget. That's 40,775. They've gathered 41 billion over the last two years. Everything was used to help society - 41 billion - and today cash is 34.6 billion, having completed 80% of the IMF's loans. All the aid given to society is due solely to the Government of New Democracy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One will tell me, of course: “Yes, but the big amount you're saying is 27.5 billion is because you borrowed cheaply from the markets. And why did you borrow cheaply from the markets? Because the European Central Bank came, made the "PEPP", so it helped Greece borrow cheaply." I have given many arguments and have shown to you that this is obviously due to the European Central Bank, as in all countries, but it is also due to the credibility of the current government. Today I will present one more - appreciate - overwhelming table, the spreads. Until now, what were we seeing? The spreads between Greece and Germany. The spreads fell, but the argument I was hearing was: 'Yes, but it was due to the European Central Bank'. Let's see the other countries of the South. Greece shrinks the spread from all southern countries, which can also make use of the "PEP" of the European Central Bank. Especially with Italy now we have a negative spread. It's over Italy from Greece. So the southern countries, which are reducing spreads, why are we reducing them? The credibility of today's government has helped to move even better than all the other southern countries. I'm filing it in the Minutes. I conclude by saying this. I wasn't here. I left for an hour because I had an obligation. I'd been informed about it. I was transferred that Mr. Gregoriadis claimed that I have made a statement in 2015 that citizens should take the money from banks, their statements, something like that. I would like to tell you that if I had made such a statement for six years, someone from the opposition would have made it. I have never made such a statement, but obviously the party represented by Mr Gregoriadis likes such reports. Let me say one last thing. I also heard from one speaker: 'Why are you accelerating the 'FRAPORT'? I'm sorry, but we've arrived in June 2021 and the crisis started in March 2020. I gave you a very large OECD study of what other countries have already done for their airports. We have been negotiating for over twelve months, we have improved three - four points in the contract that we have found since 2015 and will bring about the best possible regulation for the benefit of the country, the economy and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Economic restoration of concessional airports due to the consequences of the COVID Pandemic -19 for 2020'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, the hotel article and the whole. Make sure you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u153	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u154	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u155	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Economic restoration of concessional airports due to the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic for 2020’ was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u157	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-23-S1-commons.u158	With the consent of the House at 21.20 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 24 June 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport, Health and Tourism, arrangements for productive activities and other provisions for strengthening development", according to the supplementary agenda allocated to you.
