ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 8-9-2021 authorisation, the PPP's minutes were endorsed by the Bureau of the PPP's PPP's minutes, of Wednesday, 2021, on the part of the Party relating to the special agenda for the "Repealing of the House, by its President, between the members of the Ice Bay and the Public Prosecutor's Office, appointed or promoted to the extent that they possess prior to the submission of the proposal for a prosecutor's prosecuting, for the promotion of a (1) alternate member of the Judiciary, as well as his Deputy Prosecutor and his Deputy, in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 8 of Law 3126/2003 “Privacy of the Ministers”, as applicable, following the 14 July 2021 decision of the House, to exercise criminal proceedings against the former Minister for the purpose of the Anti-Fraud Office of the former People's Rule of Culture and Home Affairs Minister, as well-Stemploymisement of the former Ministry of the former Ministry of the Hellenic Ministry of the former Ministry of Communications.]] MP Theodoros Rusopoulos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday 17 September to Monday 20 September, due to his participation in the conference "Giornata di Studio Internazione Studios Greci nella Sala dei Quaranta dell'Univa di Padova", which co-organises the University of Padova and the Greek Orthodox Community of Venice. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1. ‘Preparation of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Program between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania, signed in Athens on 20 December 2001.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote of both conventions will take place, after the end of their debate, separately and in the order that has been discussed. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u4	The House has agreed. Mr. Athanasios has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I want to be honest to you, I'm probably gonna need seven minutes, and I promise to keep them. This is because, before I announce SYRIZA's decision - a Progressive Alliance for the two and a half million donation to Albania, we have four letters from yesterday. First, I told the Minister present yesterday, Mr. Frangoyannis - today Mr. Varvitsiotis is here and I thank him - that Mr. Mitsotakis broke the record...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u6	Excuse me, Mr. Colleague, to interrupt for a moment. The two sanctions will be discussed together. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u7	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u8	I said yesterday to the President-in-Office, Mr Frangoyannis, that Mr Mitsotakis broke the record of the most populous government. The Minister replied to me: 'If you want to compare a record with a record of negative and positive, I am at your disposal. I would be happy to.’ Let's give me a chance. At present, I am giving my place to the newspaper "Kathemerina". Let her first be put at the disposal of her, who wrote about the remodeling: “It is a mountain that is poured out, but it was not. Sixty (in spite of one) prefectures have this government as well. Ministers for all sorts of diseases and judgments. But it can't be done differently. The large and centralised state needs a lot of hands to operate, unlike the final state, which primarily requires a mind to decentralise." Where is he, son, this mind? Letter two. Mr Frangoyannis clearly called me a 'latic'. He forgot that a government MP, Costas Javaras, who accepted the same accusation, said that the worst form of populism could be shown to be reformist populism. I would add that some people call it'modern folkism'. He also forgot that it was the first populist who was electionally dressed as a Macedonian and organised hate and division rallys against the Ambassadors in order to become a Prime Minister. So who are they talking about populism? Those who pay three communiqués to gloss in a modern way. Those who, as I said, were stoned by SYRIZA Members' homes during the parliamentary support of the Prespecies Agreement. Those who electionally put a woman in the street to call the Prime Minister "bought". What a tact, what an elegance of speech, or what a petty thing! Those who guarded "Purplemen" to "little them." Those who drafted the so-called 'Petsa list', which is not Mr. Peshassa, but Mr. Mitsotakis. Those who had Kyriakos sit in a package of hay to appeal to farmers, thus citing icons to sandows. These, like Mr Mitsotakis, who are congratulating today - literally today - those who - literally tomorrow - are evacuating them from the ministries, who, in his opinion, have successfully served. Those who speak of excellence and mean gratuitousness. The contempt is a disease of Greek political life and a source of great calamities. Yesterday they called me a "falseist" and a "falseist". Ecclesiastes Minister, Mr. Frangoyannis, if I were such in the forty years of my profession, I would at least have acquired an underground studio next to Voltaire's house. Letter three. He said: “What does the SIEMENS case have to do with donating to Albania?” It gives me the opportunity, although it wasn't my intentions, to take me where I didn't want to go, to repeat that in Greece delaying, parade is law. It took twenty-two years to impose the first sentences on the 'SIEMENS' case and it took nineteen years to use now buried in an uninhabited account of 2.5 million donation to Albania. Do you know how meaningless, in the opinion of Mr Frangoyannis, examples can be added to prove the existence of this law of delay? But I think that's not necessary. The simple world lives on its side, and he knows it. This simple world has sprung up the term "fast". Is he a fool? He doesn't know what's going on with him? Yes, they are irrelevant, but with a common feature: delaying, dragging the case to the point where it can be arranged in closed lounges, in the most subtle and wicked way. Letter four. The Minister said that one feels a relative pride in the way the government is moving in the Balkans. If you believe in the government that you are strengthening your authority by self-reparation, go on. You'll see the result. On this occasion, I would like to repeat what I said yesterday to Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. You are bringing this amendment to Albania. When will you bring what we have to adopt under the international agreement that we have signed? I think someone has to tell us. This is important. We're talking about the Balkans. To be proud of the way we move, as Mr Vlachoyannis said. Because there is a risk here, Mr Varvitsiotis, that serious problems may arise. By voting in favour of our commitments under an international agreement, we are pushing Skopje in other directions. This country signed a multi-level defence agreement with Turkey. I'm not saying we're pushing her that way, but that could happen. This case with Northern Macedonia must be brought to an end. When will you bring in the House what you must bring? I'm closing, so I don't get you bored. The amendment of the Agreement. I said yesterday that Albanians have the right to wrong. Let them practice it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u9	Mr. Comrade, you said seven minutes and the minutes are seven and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u10	So we are positive about the bill, but in the sense I have just mentioned, only verbal. We must let them exercise the right to wrong. Normally this money had to be made available to create a national theatre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u11	Mr Amanatidis will be speaking now, because they had said to be two of the rapporteurs from SYRIZA, one for every sanction. Come on, Mr. Amanatidis, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u12	Mr President, if I may be a parliamentary representative, with all due respect to Mr Athanasios, no more than to amend the ratification of the agreement with the neighbouring state. The whole SYRIZA arsenal and the opposition tactics have been spread before us. I was waiting for my colleague to come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u14	There was nothing personal. Come on, Mr. Amanatidis. We're not going to start a conversation now. Mr. Bouquet, sit down. I understand you want something else. You are a Parliamentary representative and you have every right to take the floor, but now you do not need to ratify an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u15	Do not make an amendment to bring up topicality in general and to discuss everything in the effort to exert a opposition that is not based on facts. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u16	Mr President, I think I am entitled to the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u17	Please, Mr. Athanasios. Let me hear and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u18	I'm not done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u19	Mr. Bukokouros isn't finished. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u20	As a parliamentary representative, without any personal peaks to my fellow Member, I would like to point out that here we are discussing the amendment of a ratification agreement, to take the money to become a professional high school. It wasn't placed. He said that the right to wrong should be exercised on the side of the neighbouring state and that we heard the many counts of the government as a whole. In any case, we must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u21	First of all, as far as the rapporteurs' procedure is concerned, I thought that I gave Mr Buquota the floor for another matter. Unfortunately, we cannot stop each rapporteur saying what he has to say nor can we set limits on it. Everyone has a responsibility. Mr. Athanasios, what's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u22	Mr President, allow me to comment because in other cases I remember the following when it comes to personal matters. That's what happened in the old years, but the old years have a lot to teach us. It was said by someone 'on staff'. He was told by the President that you have a minute to develop what the staff consisted of. He developed for one minute what the staff consisted of and then gave him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u23	Please, you have a minute. I've already put on a minute. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u24	Look. The shooting that I didn't talk about this is a personal shot. When you don't talk about the topic, you choose another way - it's readable, it's implied - to hit your opponent. I didn't want to hurt anyone. It was a personal performance that my colleague had, that I was out of the question. So I have to explain why I was in the middle of the matter and indeed at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u25	Is that the staff? I don't think it's personal. Mr. Amanatidis, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u26	At least, I would ask you, from now on, to recommend that we follow this procedure on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u27	Please. Come on, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, before I begin my position, to address the last "hail" to the great Mikis Theodorakis, for which the farewell ceremony in Athens will take place today. Mickey is part of our lives and will continue to be part of our lives. I could, paraphrasing the motto "Lamprakis lives", say that Mickeys Theodorakis will continue to live. And from this Step I would also personally like to address the last "hail" to this great creator and supporter of our lives and our years. Thank you, Mr President, for the possibility of this report. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my position in committee, this is a typical matter. It is a validated virtually agreement on the termination of the bilateral investment agreements after the court ruling on 6 March 2018, which considered that the arbitration clause contained in the bilateral investment agreement between Slovakia and the Netherlands is not compatible, that it affects the autonomy of Union law and is therefore not compatible with Union law, which forced the committee to have come to an agreement in order to ratify the expiry of the bilateral investment agreements. We have asked the government to do something in committee and we will do it again today, knowing, Minister, that it is our country's international obligation and that we should join with those countries that support the intensification of discussions between the European Commission and the Member States, with a view to ensuring the sound and effective protection of investment within the European Union. We have also called on the committee, and we are taking into account the Government that it is now necessary to explore the most suitable tools, based, of course, on the law of the European Union, in order to assess the existing dispute resolution mechanisms which are necessary to ensure legal certainty and to protect investment. As you know, Mr President, the European Union is the world's largest exporter and importer of foreign direct investment. This creates jobs and there needs to be encouragement and maintenance of investment. In order to achieve this strategic objective, the European Union plans, as you know, to establish a permanent body to decide on investment disputes, a multilateral investment court. This multilateral investment court will replace bilateral investment court systems involved in trade and investment agreements. There are internal processes that have been carried out in various countries, Minister. For example, the Netherlands has adopted a model of a bilateral text of an investment agreement in 2019 as the basis for renegotiation of its old agreements and several other Member States - are working on similar initiatives in order to put the new European framework in place with the rules that will henceforth govern investment agreements. It would be interesting to table in the Chamber what Greece's proposals are in relation to the multilateral investment dispute settlement mechanism, i.e. the Multilateral Investment Court, since, as far as we know, the investment court systems set up in the European Union are considered transitional and are to be replaced by this mechanism. Our country should have clear proposals. We are waiting for an update from you on whether such a procedure has been initiated, as has been done in the Netherlands. What I have before me are texts from the European Commission and I am referring to them. If we have not started, our country must certainly have specific proposals for this Multilateral Investment Court, so that we do not stay back in relation to developments. Minister, we will be in a positive position. We have reserved for the committee. In plenary our position with regard to this ratification is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u29	Thank you very much. I will now give Mr Georgios Frangidis the floor from the Change Movement - of course with more time, because they are both sanctions - for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, I'll make both suggestions together. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the ratification of the Protocol amending the Cooperation Agreement between Greece and Albania on aid, adopted on 20 December 2001, we are debating the ratification of the amendment of an agreement signed in Athens in 2001 concerning the bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Programme between Greece and Albania. An agreement that we still do not know what it contained and what conditions it contained. Despite the assurance of the Minister, when I raised the matter yesterday in committee, that we will be given the relevant text, we have unfortunately received nothing from yesterday, despite our communication with the legislative text...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u31	Mr President, can I take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u32	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u33	Mr President, I was going to do this during my speech, but I have to submit to the Minutes and share the text of the original agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u34	Good, testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u35	I have to say this, Minister, because yesterday we asked for it and contacted the Parliamentary Legislative Service and the Secretary-General of the Ministerial Council, but, unfortunately, we did not get any answers. So we do not have the opportunity to see the analytical elements on which this bill is based. However, with regard to what we know, this draft law relates to the Protocol amending the original agreement signed in 2021 in Tirana. According to Article 5 of the original agreement, in 2002 Greece offered EUR 2.5 million in cash to build a national theatre in Tirana. And very well he did then, the purpose was good. The amount was deposited with the Albanian State in the bank of Albania. Unfortunately, after twenty years, this financial assistance remains unnecessarily unrealistic, which seems unrealistic and does not honor Albania or Greece, which perhaps did not control the course of donation for so many years. In November 2019, it became the biggest earthquake in the last 40 years and hit Western Albania and caused great material damage and human losses. In this context, obviously, assessing that the needs and priorities have changed, it was decided to amend the purpose of the Greek Government's financial contribution and to make available for the reconstruction of a school building in Tirana that was destroyed. Our Minister informed us yesterday about some of the relevant details, such as the technical high school that will be twinned and co-operated with a similar educational establishment in Kastoria and that it will be said to have been built with a donation from the Greek Government. No objections can be raised to modify the original purpose of donation, as the construction of a school is perhaps more necessary in this particular case. After all, our own neighbours are responsible for setting their priorities, assessing their needs. What we are interested in, and is important, is to ensure that the project is implemented in a reasonable time. As I pointed out in my position and in the committee, it is important to develop cooperation relations between the Balkan countries, since they can only be beneficial. In this case for our country there is also the parameter of the promotion of Greek interests in Albania. There is a strong element of the Greek community there, where all these years he has lived at times difficult and unjust situations. Albania often carries out a provocative policy towards Greece and we should be very careful to safeguard the rights of the Greek minority and the interests of our country. As I have said, we are in favour of this ratification, this amendment to cooperation. Now, with regard to my suggestion of ratifying the agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law ratifys the draft agreement signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020 by twenty-three Member States of the Union and entered into force on 29 August 2020. This brings the intra-Union bilateral investment agreements to an end as a whole. Between the conventions that are being abolished are thirteen bilateral conventions in Greece, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Estonia, Croatia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Slovakia, i.e. agreements which were concluded in most of the 1990s before they joined the European Union, and one which had been in force since 1963 with Germany, when our country was not in the European Union. The abolition does not only take precedence over existing contracts such as Annex 1, but also those which have already been terminated in Annex 2, so that they cease to produce legal effects, with the aim of avoiding further prolongation of the protection of investments, which has continued until their termination as a result of the terminating clause contained in those contracts. The annulment agreement is a result of the decision of the European Union on the case of the Republic of Slovakia against the Dutch insurance company ‘ACHMEA’, according to which the arbitration clause contained in the Agreement between the Netherlands and Slovakia on the protection of investment is not compatible with Union law and should therefore be repealed directly. In order not to be long, I will not go into the history of the ACHMEA case, which was described in detail in the committee debate. The main reason is that the arbitration clauses between investors and a State included in the bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union, namely, intra-Union bilateral investment agreements, are contrary to the conditions of the European Union and as a result of this incompatibility cannot be applied after the date on which the last of the Contracting Parties to an intra-Union bilateral investment agreement became a Member State of the European Union. As I have also been in committee, we are in favour of an agreement with which our country complies with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and implements its commitment at political level to the uniform treatment of investors within the European Union, since the Minister in the debate in the relevant committee has assured us that Greece as a country is not harming, on the contrary, the Greek investors are also benefiting. The agreement also refers - and I close with it, Mr President - to the fact that, on the basis of the ECOFIN Council conclusions of 11 July 2017, the Member States and the Commission will step up their discussions without undue delay with a view to ensuring better complete, strong and effective protection of investment within the European Union. These discussions include an assessment of existing dispute resolution procedures and mechanisms, as well as the need - if it is established - to create new tools or to improve existing relevant tools and mechanisms under Union law, where there is a problem. In conclusion, I will not fail to express my gratitude to the great universal and huge Greek, to Mikis Theodorakis, who as you know is the man who honoured all the ends of Greece and made it known. His memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u36	Thank you. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for both sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with the agreement that we are voting against. The main point of this convention is that it repeals the Member States' agreements on arbitratorial investment courts. You will wonder: What is the JRC interested in, since it was also in favour of investors? But it's interesting. It abolishes the referral courts, because, by decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, these are contrary to the four fundamental freedoms of movement of capital in the European Union enshrined in the Treaties, first with that of Maastricht, which, as you remember, only the JRC voted against, and, of course, the Treaty of Lisbon, as has evolved. It does not abolish contracts, that is, because they provide for arbitration for investors, but because the Treaties prohibit anything that prevents the free movement of capital and investment between the Member States of the European Union. So every great investor affected must appeal to the national courts, which must apply the law of the European Union which is super-constitutional and justify it. The reason why this ratification is being promoted is that there should be no obstacle to the circulation of capital in the European Union. So the national courts, in applying the Treaties of the European Union, should always be entitled to investors. So even these arbitration courts are useless and much more time-consuming for capital, investors. Still no Member State - with its legislation, when it is contrary to that of the European Union, can prevent the investment of capital by arbitration. This is also confirmed in Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention, which in any case cover those groups which have pending arbitration proceedings. In short, therefore, the abolition of bilateral transnational conventions is in line with the common aims of monopolies, institutions of the European Union and civil governments for the free movement of capital in the European Union, without any formal obstacles, only to its safeguard from the Treaties of the European Union and the depositary, its court. Eventually, national law is under the boot of European law, which is cut and sewn to the measures of European monopolies. This agreement, of course, abolishes and terminates any bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union. They are the ones described in Annex A and B. I do not know if it is a coincidence, but these were before some of these countries joined and became members of the European Union. Because, as we know, a large enlargement with ten countries - most of the former Socialists - took place in May 2004, another enlargement with two Balkans took place in 2007 and 2013 with Croatia, which had emerged as a new country following the murderous attack and dismantling of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia by NATO and the European Union in 1999. I mention them in order for the people to remember the crimes they have committed in view of the meeting of the NATO Military Committee in Athens next week, with all the murder plans in the menu - strategic issues I call them - that is, how they will spread their fingernails around the world, unfolding other confrontational plans with other imperialist centres to the detriment of the well-being of the peoples. We are voting against, without meaning that what was in place was not in favour of business groups for certain profitability. There was nothing philosophical about it. However, I should also like to reply to the Minister's comment in his speech to the committee that the JRC is saying 'no' at all. This confirms and proves that your policy is unpopular and is reflected in almost all the legislation you bring. That is why we are saying 'no' and we are voting against. With regard to the other convention entitled 'Bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Program between Greece and Albania', we consider that the title does not correspond, since it is essentially a matter of financing the reconstruction of a school building, with which it could be specifically reflected in the title. Following the questions we have asked and the clarification given to most of the Deputy Minister, Mr Frangoyannis, on the grounds that the balances he has not answered will be taken into account, in particular, that there will be, in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement, specific external auditors used by the donor, namely the Greek State, to monitor the implementation of the project and experts who will inspect the accounting records. We are therefore voting in favour of this agreement, since, as Victor Hugo says, "the place where a school opens is shutting down a prison". Finally, we say goodbye to Mickey today with an unstoppable applause, keeping deep in store all his songs and melodies in order to deliver them to the next generations. Yes, his songs unite the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u38	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Mylonakis from the Greek Solution and I understand that from Mera25 only Mrs Bakadima will speak. After Mrs Bakadima, if anyone else does not speak, the Minister will close the procedure. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my condolences to the loss, the death of our great music composer, Mickey Theodorakis. May God rest his soul. And I believe that a man like Mickey Theodorakis, who wrote history, left a deposit. He also said toward the end of his life: "Macedonia is one and it is Greek." Let us all remember this and those who are talking about this great Greek music composer today. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will start from the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between Greece and Albania. Minister, I told you yesterday. This is a pact which we have asked for and submitted to us - we have just taken it in our hands - which is two pages, a 2001 agreement, ladies and gentlemen. Then, it seems, the money was too much and the semantic, then PASOK, should give in all direction money. I do not understand why an agreement had to be made with Albania and given immediately, disbursed by the Greek state directly, EUR 2.5 million. We know very well, Minister, that the EUR 2.5 million in 2002 was too much money, especially for Albania, which you were buying at home with little. But which country did they cooperate with then, Minister, and do you continue? And instead of this large amount, which is inexorable, you ask to be made available to the Greeks of Northern Epirus for schools there, for these inhumane things that Rama and his company and all the Prime Ministers who went through Albania continue to say that we are dominating and doing what you want. Whatever you want! Be careful now, we are talking about the most dirty country in Europe. I have two reports here, ladies and gentlemen, which I shall be presenting, Mr Minister, in the Minutes. One of Europol's reports - I can get you reports from 2002 until today, for example - and an annual report from the United States Department of Foreign Affairs. Indeed, in 2016, the Ambassador of the United States to Albania had spoken to the Court of Justice in this country about these issues that I shall be reporting to you now. Albania is called - it's from the State Department, not my own words, it's official, as well as Europol - the'small-state of Europe', called 'Colombia of Europe'. But be careful where they're going with this. In addition to the laundering of black money, as clearly mentioned in means and fact, how does it become the laundering of black money? I don't have much time. I can read you the whole report. "It is the corridor for cocaine and heroin." In addition to hashis and marijuana, to think about how dirty they have, in 2018 by the thousands of three hundred eighty arrests, only a hundred people were punished for drugs. They're making the hashish, they're channeling it to Europe. They're getting the money. The heavy drug comes from Colombia and the others, it is being channelled into Europe too - and we are talking about heroin, cocaine, such drugs - they get the money. Where do they launder them, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the money? In the buildings. All banks are exposed to dirty money laundering in Albania. There is a detailed report, which I will also present in the Minutes, Mr Minister, to find out in this House that we must at some point see what is going on around us. Excessive amounts are rinsed in Albania through construction. So what are Albanians doing? They channel black, huge sums into their banks - banks are exposed, there are detailed reports - and they make facilities. What do we do? We gave 2.5 million for Albania's national theatre. They didn't want them. Why didn't we get them back? Don't you want them, gentlemen? Bring them back, we need them. We spend memos, the Greek people have no food, they're hungry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u40	He couldn't get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u41	"You can't get them back." All right, my Minister. So you couldn't get them back you four years. Good! So what did you do? When the earthquakes happened - as if Greece had not been under incredible earthquakes - I have not seen any time helping Albanians financially, unless Albania is the poor country and Greece is the rich country. Because you're telling me, Mr. Amanatidis, what did you do? So in 2019, after the earthquakes, you agreed to take the money to build a school band. And why didn't you say so? Not you, you were government, and then New Democracy took over, the state keeps on going, your runners follow, the PASOK follow, the Semitic PASOK do these, the Semitic PASOK governs today. It's not something that I'm saying, so that we don't come up with a story about the world. And so you leave the money on the money laundering in Albania's building facilities. And why do we not delimit this EUR 2.5 million money? Disabled will go directly to a school complex in the Greeks of Northern Epirus, which you have forgotten, Minister. The Prime Minister has promised here to Mr. Velopoulos for a year and a half that pensions will be given. Nothing yet. What for? You've completely abandoned them. You only want the votes! So because I don't have much time - because he's cut off today - he's not our vote, and he couldn't have been positive about this agreement, which he needs right now - right now! - to abolish and the money should be given to the Northcontinentals to build a school band and check them out, see where they're going. Black money makes it, laundering the Greek people's money. Who? The Albanians, the wicked Albanians! And let's go to the other quick - quickly. It is a ratification agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements. I also told the committee that what was started and finally done was that the Germans should do theirs again. He said somewhere - I think - the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement on how this started. This started with a conflict in 2008 between Slovakia and the Netherlands, the big health insurance company - ancient - which is Dutch. They had signed a contract which gave the Dutch insurance company the exclusive right to control the health system before entering the European Union. Once he got in, he changed the regime, went to court. But those who have supported Slovakia - look out! - is the Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece - we, namely - Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Latvia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and the European Commission. On the contrary, they voted - in other words - Germany, France, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland. So it's not something that's forbidden. But, to know something, the big arbitrators need, they need money, the governments of countries have no money. The large multinational groups have huge sums. So what is being done - and it will be done, you will see it from now on - is that the national parliaments of countries are weakened, that the power to come to arbitration goes - you know very well - on the part of the powerful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u42	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President, thank you. So, because it is a European directive, it is not something that makes our country proud, because it does not act for Greece and for Greece. It's nothing. We shall vote on 'Substances'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u44	Good, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u45	And what I have to say to end is this, Mr President, and I am closed: it is shameful, I am called too many, Minister, military officials, to be lost to them from the military hospitals. They're emptying the military hospitals after the politicians. Cut the parole! Cut the hooey off the evil! Cut the 'Decision and Order'! Seven years ago, the 'Decision and Order' was endured. Do you want to last seven years, and then finish your term as human beings and as Greeks? Cut this, then. What you need to do immediately - advice from the Greek Solution - is to lift the impunity. So people will be convinced that there's nothing wrong with the suspect and he's going to do the vaccine he has to, if he has to, according to what the experts say. What we are saying is: Cut compulsoryity, make the Greek people believe that it has to go, if it has to go, to make the vaccine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u46	Thank you. The vaccine is a subject that we have discussed many times. It is important to know in the House who are vaccinated and who are not vaccinated. I think we all want this for transparency. I would like to say to you - and not only to Mr Mylonakis - that I have three children - in the third grade, in the third grade and in the second grade - and all three were vaccinated, because I believe that this is a matter of science and can help our health, but it can actually help society on all issues. Let's not talk about it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u47	I said that for another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u48	Yeah. I hope they understand why they need to be vaccinated, you don't have to convince them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u49	But that's where they're not convinced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u50	It's other issues. What can we do now? Mrs Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall be brief enough, since our position towards both agreements has been recorded during the committee meeting. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the agreement aimed at ending bilateral investment agreements, an agreement signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020 from twenty-three Member States and to be ratified in this House in order to comply with the relevant decision of the WEU of 6 March 2018. As MERA25, we are sitting on such bilateral transnational clauses - and not just - agreements which provide for the possibility of private investors to apply to international arbitration against decisions of the authorities of our country, which they consider to be in breach of their interests. We have also been denounced several times from this point of view, and also from any public positioning of appeal clauses in international arbitration, which are included in agreements already signed by the Memorandum of Understanding with foreign investors, such as the agreement with ELDORADO, with the OPAP SAZKA GROUP, the SYRIZA agreement with the "FRAPORT" and many others. On the other hand, one should not have the slightest illusion that this agreement on the abolition of the EGTCs with clauses of international arbitration between Member States marks some kind of change of the European Union towards less liberal policies. After all, if we look at the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union itself, we will see that the Treaty itself is the result of neoliberalism and the abolition of the IGCs is aimed at - it is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law under discussion - the safeguarding of the integrity of the single market, the uniform application of the EU's legal system, the observance of non-discrimination between investors in the Member States and the safeguarding of equal conditions of competition. In this agreement, as we have already said, we will vote 'at present'. We cannot, however, vote for it or close our eyes to the policy pursued by all the governments of the parties to the memorandum, which over the years have made bilateral agreements with private investors to whom international arbitration has been given instead of our national courts. These colonial-type agreements, when concluded between the Memorandum Governments of our country and foreign monopolies, are not based on bilateral investment agreements between Greece and the countries where these enterprises are established and are therefore not affected by the adoption of this draft law. As far as the other agreement is concerned, the convention between our country and Albania, as we have already said, will be voting in favour of it. I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that today we are saying goodbye to a great Greek, we are saying goodbye to Mikis Theodorakis, a Greek who has honored our country, who has filled us all proudly. We will not have his physical presence among us, but we will have his work, we will have his compositions, which will continue to inspire, support, represent to accompany and travel ours and all future generations. His work, a creation and imprint of the Greek soul, will remain universal and will keep his memory alive for centuries. Condolences from Mera25 to his relatives. Condolences, however, to the entire Greek people, because Mickeys Theodorakis was Mickey of all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u52	Is there any other colleague, other than the speakers, who wants to speak before the Minister is given the floor and the procedure is completed? As far as I can see, it doesn't exist. Please, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by presenting the Government's positions with regard to the two agreements being ratified, to clarify some things so that there are no misunderstandings between us. With regard to the total abolition of the bilateral trade agreements between the Member States of the European Union, I have heard various arguments against them. But what I cannot understand is the systematic distortion of reality. This regulation essentially strengthens national courts rather than vice versa. It abolishes arbitration as a means of resolving disputes between companies from countries - members of the European Union, investing in another European Union country with which their country has drawn up a bilateral trade agreement. Thus, instead of being able to appeal to the institution of arbitration, which has so far been the case, they would have brought any disputes with the competent national courts. The national foreign investment control system is therefore being strengthened instead of the other way round, for which I have heard so much criticism. Clearly this only covers the countries - members of the European Union, and why is that? Because, indeed, between the countries of the European Union, what we call 'European competition' applies common rules for everyone and anyone who wants to invest in a country - a member of the European Union - will suffer the suffering of its investment in the control of national courts. With regard to third countries, which are outside the hard core, however, the state entity will not lose and, above all, our country will be entitled to draw up bilateral investment agreements with countries with which it has a particular interest to attract investment and give them this privilege. Besides, the Greek economy is a thirsty economy for investment and such bilateral trade agreements with third countries will actually give an extra incentive to attract such investments. So the total abolition of bilateral investment agreements, as I have heard as a proposal, is beyond the constant pursuit of the Greek governments, which was to make our country an attractive place to attract foreign investment. Now, because we have also talked about whether or not our country is participating or not, and Mr Amanatidis has asked whether or not he is taking part in the debate which has begun on the Multilateral Investment Court, I will say this: it is a long debate in which all the parties involved have not yet concluded, firstly, whether there is a need and what rules this arrangement will be based on. Our country is participating in the consultations, it is in the framework of the United Nations Organization, UNCTAD, which concerns international trade relations for the creation of this international and multilateral investment disputes tribunal, but for which the negotiations do not seem to be going so fast. The aim is to complete these negotiations in 2024. We are active in this negotiation, and we are the ones who say that this court should gradually absorb all outstanding cases concerning international arbitration. So we are taking part in this process, Mr Amanatidis, and I think we are right to do so in the right direction. I now come to ratification of the agreement with Albania. In 2009 Greece presented a very ambitious programme, the Balkan National Economic Reconstruction Plan. For this purpose, it put EUR 500 million which, through various procedures, were made available to the Balkan countries. Many of this money, particularly in Albania, were placed in the area of Northern Epirus, with a view to economic development in Northern Epirus, whether it relates to infrastructure projects, roads that connected mostly Greek villages, to the creation of conditions for the establishment of businesses so as not to devastate, schools and of course other infrastructure projects, key to the Greek population's stay in the region. There has been a very great effort in this direction, and I think that the projects that have taken place over all these years have really maintained the possibility of these regions having an economic activity. As far as this is concerned, I should like to tell you that this was an additional agreement drawn up by the Greek Government - Mr Zahiropoulos had signed it on behalf of the Greek Government - with which Greece undertook to finance the construction of the new national theatre in Albania, theatre and opera. This offer should be monitored by the relevant Ministries of Culture and the Ministry of Finance and not by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is what the agreement describes, the text that we distributed to you a moment ago. This was actually found on a freeze for too many years and I will tell you that it was also typically powerless, since it was not ratified by Parliament in 2001. Nevertheless, the money was disbursed, transferred to the account of the central bank of Albania, in the name of the Albanian government, and all these decades have not been exploited in the way they should. In her honour, the then Ambassador to Tirana Mrs Surannis raised the matter, raised it and started a serious correspondence with the Albanian side, pressing for the resolution of this pending issue. This money has been disbursed since 2001. It's not new money that we make. They are already tabled to the Albanian public, which could take advantage of this. They came after a long debate, which lasted for about three years, that it is not possible with these two and a half million euros to build the new Tirana theatre, that this money was less than the total budget of the theatre. After all, the central theater of Tirana was repaired at the expense of the Albanian government, which is currently working. Following the 2019 earthquakes, which took place in western Albania and particularly hit Durres, but also shocked Tirana, the most serious earthquakes that hit the country in recent decades, it was decided to help with the other members of the European Union in the reconstruction effort. I don't know if it's about blues or anything else. I know that too many countries, without the existence of the European Union, have, for example, helped to rebuild the Ionian Islands after the earthquakes in '57. Anyone who visits Ithaca can see the high school and high school of Ithaca, which has been built with Swiss people's money and has a very nice inscription. So we have also received similar aid when we needed it. Today, then, all this is done within the framework of all international contacts and the assistance we give to neighbouring countries. Do not forget that we have now entered the COVID assistance process, with multiple missions in Algeria, Moldova and Libya, where vaccines have been transported which the Greek state has paid, has been paid for by the Greek people to meet humanitarian needs in neighbouring countries and countries of the Mediterranean with which we want to maintain very good relations. We also welcome the criticism that we are leaving too many neighbouring countries without the help we should be giving them at the moment when they are in need, while others are taking the first place - first and foremost and even displaying their flags in the relevant aid facilities, gaining a surplus of goodwill from their respective public opinion. We have taken too many questions to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we let our neighbours go to the Balkans to make humanitarian policy, and we do not make the corresponding moves. So today we are making the same move and say that the money we have been tabling in Albania, which has been there for nineteen years and which remains untapped, why not use it within the framework of the policy of reconstruction after the earthquakes and, indeed, build a modern technical training centre to provide high quality technical training for the young Albanians? However, we accept this criticism because we go and give it to them. I mean, I don't understand the relevance. In fact, for anyone who understands the issues a little bit more, I would like to say that this technical high school, on the basis of the agreement we are drawing up, will be directly related to the respective technical high school in Kastoria, so that additional synergies can be created which will also bring interpersonal contact within the framework of technical education, which we consider to be extremely important. I would like to close and thank the parties which agree to this. Mrs Manolakou, you surprised me. For the first time I hear the JRC say 'yes' to something in this Chamber. I think you did it on purpose because I told you yesterday that you don't want to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u54	We have fully justified this, as we have explained against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u55	I would like to close, Mr President, by saying that Mickeys Theodorakis for us has been both emblematic and uncertain and ecumenical. And as appropriate - I think - a commentator wrote, Mickey Theodorakis was always present. He was present in all the great judgments of the nation. He always took a position, whether we agreed or didn't agree. He always took a stand and thus managed - not because all Greeks agreed with him - to embrace all Greeks not only with his lyrics, not only with his notes, but also embraced the Greek people's anguish as well. Let the soil covering its body be light and know that we will always look to him with much love, respect and always under the sounds of a unique music.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u56	At this point, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 10 September 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, dated 1013/31-8-2021, on "Support measures for substitute teachers for their distribution in the placement areas". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1014/1-9-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Without representing the University of Serres in the administration of International University of Greece (DIAE). Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all of the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being declared adjourned and they will be voted on separately. We proceed to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘The Amendment Protocol to the Agreement on the Bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania signed in Athens on 20 December 2001’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u58	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u59	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘The amendment of the Agreement on the bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Program between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania, signed in Athens on 20 December 2001’, was accepted by a majority of the articles and the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u60	We move on to a single vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Agreement on the termination of the bilateral Investment Agreements between the Member States of the European Union'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u62	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u63	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement on the termination of the bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union’, a majority of the single on the principle of Articles and all of the following was accepted:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u65	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall resolve the sitting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-08-S2-commons.u66	With the consent of the House at 12.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for the next Friday, 10 September 2021, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
