ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, let me tell the House on Friday 19 March 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 542/8-32021 by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The need to draw up a comprehensive plan for the restoration of earthquake damage in Thessaly". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 549/11-32021 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'When will Elias' producers be compensated for the loss of income suffered by the pandemic and the recent frost?' 3. The question under number 543/8-32021 by MP B1' North Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafili to his Minister for Protection, on the subject: "For the escalation of state terrorism and repression on the grounds of unacceptable incidents of police violence against the residents of Nea Smyrna". 4. The question by No 545/9-32021 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Aid measures for livestock production due to an increase in animal feed prices'. 5. The Question No 546/9-32021 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafa to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Participatory practices by the Government'. B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Euklidis Tsakalotou to the Minister of State, dated 547/10-32021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of State, Euklidis Tsakalotou. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 556/11-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Hourly and necessary the concession of the port and the Venetian Port to self-government". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Kalamata: The government refuses veterinary control in the floating hell of Elbeik'. 4. The Question No 558/12-32021 by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Fighting the phenomenon of desertification and its consequences". 5. Giannakopoulou's No. 560/12-32021 topical question from MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Inadmissibility of the practices of input companies in the middle of a pandemic'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 3729/1-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hare) Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "What is the programming of the "Security" programme to support tourism?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Introductions of horticultural products from third countries into a pandemic of COVID-19’. 3. The question by number 3911/4-2-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Maris) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Time-long extension of the benefit of netting equal to 25% of the debts to tax administration paid in due course." Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in a document by the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, he is informing the House that the topical questions that will be discussed today are as follows: The numbers Nos 548/10-3-2021 and 562/12-3-2021 are to be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. The 550/11-3-2021 topical question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aegeanakis. We are now entering the debate of the first under number 550/11-3-2021 on the first question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Tackling the scourge of hooliganism". Mrs Pipilis' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Eleftherios Auggenakis. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The atrocious event, with the attack of the evicted mob against a police officer on duty last week in Nea Smyrna, a mob that bounced through a protest on another horrendous event, but not to that extent, of the violence of a police officer, not only literally flew from terror and awe to the Greek society, not only did the political system shake up, but it also raised the whole of society a problem that is agitating everyday life and which usually passes to the finest or somewhat more intense in the press, the problem of so-called fanatic hooliganism. It has been pointed out from the first moment that the perpetrators we saw on the screens - the alleged perpetrators, who are then imprisoned - were fans of houligans who now face justice. But here we are politically interested, because what impressed, Mr Minister, society, which is not able to know all - and I did not even know it - came from the unfamiliar existence and operation of the Department for the Confrontation of Violence in the Sports Areas, which also retains a data bank. So, thanks to this very organization, the bucket has been solved and the people are confiscated - to use the right term, because Mr Vorides is here - as perpetrators. Data we have serialized from the past, where they break, burn, destroy property by painting, terrorizing the simple world inside the metro. On the occasion of this case, we would like, first of all, to say a few words about this special Sports Department - and also to congratulate us - on what immediate measures the Ministry is going to take on radical extinction - as happened at Thatcher in Great Britain, if we can say - this unacceptable phenomenon, hooliganism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Pipilis, thank you very much for your question. You are definitely addressing a truly important issue, which concerns a whole range of Greek society, because we see that the phenomenon of hooliganism can always come to the surface and cause serious consequences for the physical integrity and property of the individual. And it turns out that we need to be consistently prepared to act preventively and to deal with it decisively. Of course, what you must know, but also the whole of society, is that the Ministry of Sport has clear limits to its competence in terms of its scope of intervention in relation to the hooliganism events. It only speaks of events of violence that occur before, during or immediately after sports events and, in addition, only of events of violence that have a follow-up. Anything beyond that evades the competence of the Ministry of Sports and comes under the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection. That is why the Sub-address for Violence in the Sports Areas is under his supervision, which, Mrs Pipilis, is indeed making an excellent effort to deal with the phenomenon and has its own, a separate record - as you quite rightly said - and the evidence that this address is responsible for the Ministry of Civil Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, since we took over the country's governance, we have set as our priority the fight against violence in sport and the strengthening of prevention and control mechanisms in order to maintain conditions of transparency and accountability in this area. At the end of 2019, we carried out a review of the legality or non-functionality of more than one hundred 50 clubs of fans, that is, offices and federations of fans, as they are said, throughout the territory. For example, just ten fan clubs - yes, well listened to ten fan clubs! - throughout the country, from all the teams, all sports operates legally. Allow me now to quote information from the Ministry of Civil Protection following this cooperation. The Subdirection for Violence in the Sports Areas in its area of competence in GDR, both at preventive and repressive level in the year 2020, took action - I will then mention to you - where we had a total of the following: the drafting of nine hundred and seventy-seven in-depth and detailed reports of risks and threats to sporting life, with a view to best possible sharing of human and technical resources and dealing with any crisis before, during and after each sporting event. Participation in forty-four conferences - security conferences and the Ministry of Sports. The sending of four hundred and fifty nine information sheets and game preparation forms. Adoption of information coverage measures in four hundred and twenty sports events - events. The coverage of a total of five hundred and sixty-six sports escorts and the formation of fifty-three criminal documents. The arrest of forty two people and the identification of thirty of one person. The execution of forty-nine public prosecutor orders for investigating and detecting incidents of group violence and foreclosure - hold this - multiple items, including firearms, cartridges, activated improvised explosive devices, activated flares, rods, knives falling under the provisions of the Arms Act and used or intended to be used during collusions, incidents and attacks before, during and after sporting struggles. In our term of office we have legislated brave reforms, which are what I mentioned just before, that is to say, we have given the possibility to carry out identity sample checks on ticket holders within and outside sports facilities. This makes it more effective to identify and identify those involved in sporting violence within and outside sports facilities. We have reintroduced in our legal order, adapted to the new data on the protection of personal data, a provision enabling the collection, processing and recovery, in the context of the criminal proceedings, of the material and data recorded by any technical means, which handles an official of the Hellenic Police, so that every criminally concerned act carried out in and out of the sports facilities can be distinguished, checked and ultimately punished with the due penalty. It should be noted that private audiovisual material and television material are being used in the same way - beforehand, Mr President, you know that from your previous term of office - published on the Internet and on any television networks as a means of ending a criminal offence. We have extended the local and time limits for the implementation of criminal provisions and for acts of sports violence that have purely follow-up motives and are held in a time and place not related to a sport event, for example violent events taking place within and outside fans' clubs, gatherings and marches of fans away from sports facilities - such as this in Nea Smyrna for example - and in days that are not scheduled to fight. Unfortunately, the pandemic that arrived in our country a few months after the motions were voted on, also cleared our spectators' spaces, an image that we certainly did not want to see. Our aim, with the return of the world to the stadiums - a picture we hope to see very soon happening - is, in fact, to apply the provisions adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u6	Finish, Minister. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u7	In an excellent atmosphere of cooperation - and I conclude with this, Mr President - the Ministry of Civil Protection with Super League 1 and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, a complete dossier with an in-depth proposal on the gradual return of fans to the stadiums was drawn up. Our aim is to create a good basis for the application of safety measures that have been discussed for years, but no one dared to take the initiative to implement. I'm going to set an example. Checking inside the stadium is now done by certified security on each installation, while in the event of aggregation, more flows are created by increasing more certified security. The fans at the field will be led to the entrance doors of the installation and the time shown on the ticket, which will be checked electronically and intactly. The number of passengers entering each door shall be checked by means of an access control system. And indeed, only if we unite forces, ladies and gentlemen, only if we take joint steps forward and actually take each of our responsibilities, then we will really be able to shape the consciences of all citizens and prepare better citizens for our society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u8	Good. I think you've said it all and in your dentistry you'll say much less. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u9	Mr Minister, I understand from your answer that a successful effort is indeed being made, of course, as proved after the events in Nea Smyrna. I posted a post on Facebook yesterday - which you know, has the useful side - not only trolls and maliciousness and atrocities - where people's involvement in this matter showed me that we are indeed - because we are talking about hundreds of messages - of interest to society directly. Most of course praised Thatcher and how she subjugated it all in Great Britain thirty years ago and more. What seemed to me is that an official post from Brazil, where a group hires fan mothers and put them in cash before the field starts, because it says the amazing thing, that even the worst houlgian of his mother respects it. If we say Greek, we'll say she's scared of her. I mean, that's not a Greek phenomenon. But what made me a bad impression, and I will say it, and I may now rise a storm, is this. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Minister - is the legal person present here, Mr. Vorides - ever since the football teams have personal data? It is a question that was put in public, because while everyone was talking about houlgics, organized fans and others, suddenly as a silence to prevail in the media, where we did not even know which group they were in. And why? Because there is no personal data allowed here. I don't care about sport and football, like a big part of society, what do we say? The groups are responsible - you have confirmed - for the fact that the teams are covering - not to say what is said, but I cannot prove it - that they are also organising the respective teams of trumpets and houlges. Does the teams, the elusives and the famous and pan-European and worldwide, not realize that as long as they cover, even without delusion, these orgasms, does healthy society disappear, the woman, the child, the family from the stadiums and become a club rich and ruthless with very bad methods of organization? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u11	Mrs Pipilis, to be honest, the example they apply in Brazil has not passed through our minds! So you will allow me to do so, since I have referred to measures that we have already taken and which we do not only remain with them, to move on to measures that we are going to take and to what we are going to discuss in the Committee on Morphic Affairs in the next few weeks, that is, soon, and which are included in the bill that we have already finished. Its course is over by the Ministerial Council, by consultation and we are in the final straight line to come to the House. I will, however, stand by three important reforms that we are bringing. Firstly, we announce that with the draft law we are reintroducing the peculiarity of course adapted to the requirements of the time. The peculiarity means that penalties imposed for the violent acts of believers shall not be suspended. With the proposed provision, we reintroduce to the legal order rules concerning the prohibition of the suspension and conversion of the custodial sentences imposed by criminal courts for crimes relating to manifestations of fanatic violence. In other words, we are tightening up the framework and giving a clear signal against fanatic violence. Secondly, we are introducing provisions to bring about harmonisation of legislation with the proposals of the international football federations contained in the FIFA and UEFA holistic study on football. These provisions bring changes to Greek football with the aim of improving the image of sport, increasing participation, good governance and promoting more and equal opportunities. In particular, we are focusing our efforts on the issues of the integrity of the games in order to combat threats and manipulate them, such as natural and corruption and violence. Secondly, it is foreseen that the elections of the Hellenic Football Federation will take place every four years, but before the summer Olympic Games. Thirdly, we're going to the fan clubs, the thing you've raised. I referred to my protology in the current situation that we have faced. With the draft law being tabled, we streamline the objective responsibility of groups for violence against followers. What's happened so far? Because the teams were responsible, as you quite rightly said, for any act of its organized fans, they did not recognize or recognize fan clubs and so they renounced their responsibilities. We remove the stimulus for the identification of the clubs. At the same time, we regulate organised movements of fans, where teams have supervision and control of movements, so that there is a safe and clear system of accountability. In other words, if there is a diversion, this system of liability is activated and the natural persons bear responsibility. If they are not identified, it is the club of fans, which is obliged to know who is moving organized and who is responsible for any infringements. We are clearly stressing this in order not to misunderstand ourselves - for the existence of organised fans, for the operation of legal clubs. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We want clubs - and I conclude with that, Mr President - operating within the institutional framework and ensuring conditions of legality and compliance with the rules. We want clubs that cultivate the spirit of spirit and exclude violence and hooliganism. Ladies and gentlemen, we would be blind to say that hooliganism will disappear overnight. It must be recognised, however, that within one and a half years of governance and under extremely difficult conditions we have made progress, and now we are facing a unique opportunity, so that with the complicity of all forces, we can bring real security conditions on the ground. The pandemic may have frozen our everyday life, and what we thought was unfrozen, but our highest goal. We are determined to hand over the courts to all citizens, to families, as you quite rightly said, but also to fans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too, Minister. I inform you that the fourth under number 570/12-3-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Incomprehensible the conversion of the Greek Police into a social worker for the children of detainees" is not discussed after Minister and MEP's understanding. Subsequent to the second, with number 548/10-32021, a top-level question for the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Information Campaign of the Ministry of Interior on the right to participate in the national elections of Greeks abroad from their home". The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis, will answer. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your prototype. If you want to speak without a mask, please come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Voridis, my question focuses, as I have said, on two obvious issues and an unprecedented but equally important one, which I shall analyse immediately. The obvious issues on which your answers to them were from pretext to arrogant are, on the one hand, the methodology of the competitive process, on the other hand, the way in which the project is carried out. With regard to the competitive process, from the fast track you passed us to the Fast back level, of course, by saying that you returned to us in times and moderation that gave the democratic party a bankrupt country with 400 billion debts, with its elites stacking the banks of Germany and Switzerland their easy and fast profits from public money. So now you, who obviously has some charm in your past, and you are giving such an important task, directly on the pretext of urgency, to a company that has no international experience of international media. Are you really addressing a number of multinational companies which have built-up networks of relations with both international and homosexual means? Did you hire a technician, who was known to be related to the genital field, to make a issue of technical specifications, to proceed to a real public tender? What's the rush? Does the Prime Minister himself repeat every day that the elections will take place in 2023, and you did not find a quarter to make an international prestige contest? Look, we really are concerned about this fast back - it turns us back into dark times - but above all your obsession to introduce a status quo, if you want, a system, a model of media recruitment through public money. You brought this to Greece in the summer on the pretext of pandemic and now, because you are very pleased that you have abolished the freedom of the press, you wanted to export the model to the genital media, to work on them and beside the state expenditure, Mr Vorides, for the nonexistent work of your government. Look, the other obvious is the cost of 3m euros. With EUR 3 million a year, Mr Voridis, you could show the right not only to homosexuals, but also to all foreign newspapers and websites. Because, you know, the Greeks of New York also read "NEW YORK TIMES" possibly others in other countries. You start from this year to 2023. Look, because the issue of the vote is a national issue and in order to save the pretexts, I call on you to proceed directly to the establishment of a cross-party committee that agrees and approves both the contents of the message and the direct link between costs and performance by means, in line with international standards. Otherwise, you'll have done another job and I expected - to tell you the truth - more than you in this matter. Allow me to make a comment, Mr President. Because, Mr Voridis, I know that you have personal broadest ambitions - you see yourself perhaps as the President of the New Democracy - I would like to make an observation to you to do so. I therefore believe that you should show two virtues. The first virtue you have to show - and I think you have shown it to the full - is your democratic opinions. You've all convinced us of this. The second is to convince the voters and officials of the New Democracy that you are on big business and with this work here you really disappoint us. Because, Mr Voridis, other members of your party have much less scope than you, they give them such assignments every day. For example, Mr Patolis, three such assignments make a day, others for rapid test, others for masks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Jackie, finish it up. Please confine yourself to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u15	I therefore believe that you do not even need to answer topical questions. I think you're unfair to yourself the way you handle this very important campaign.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u16	It is a good thing in parliamentary control that we do not get out of questioning issues. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. By reading, Madam President, your question, I say: "Look, Mrs Jackres has protected herself", because of course the style of your question has nothing to do with the development you have made here, but it has nothing to do with the two press releases published by your relevant department, Mr Zachariadis, nor with Mr Paulakis. In these two of your party - you said something now about workmen, something like that - he spoke of scandals, he talked about procedures, which are unacceptable. So let's start your briefing. I don't think your position comes from any other cause. It comes from the well-known attitude of SYRIZA of the distortion and attempted exploitation of certain perfectly legitimate and proper procedures and, indeed, absolutely essential. What are we talking about here? We are discussing the organization of a campaign to inform the deceased Greeks about their right to vote at home. Question one. Does this have to be a campaign like this? Because you had no objection, I assume you're in agreement. But you agree - you disagree, I would also like to inform you that the way in which this campaign is organised is laid down in the law! It is not a question of opinion or a question of the Minister's authority. It's in the law! What's the law? The Act is 4648 of 2019 on facilitating the exercise of an electoral right. The article is Article 21, which reads: ‘For the information of voters residing abroad, Article 130 of Presidential Decree 26/2012 applies’. Do you know what Article 130 says? Article 130 of the Presidential Decree therefore states that any work or expenditure which serves the purposes referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, including the enlightenment and information of Greek and social voters, shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure described in paragraph 2. It also states that all supplies, works, transport and leases referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be made by direct award and written agreement, by way of derogation from the public accounting and procurement rules. Mrs. Jackrey, you asked: did you vote for this particular article? Answer: Yes. You've voted for this! And you come now and tell me that what the law defines I will not apply it and apply another? I know that in SYRIZA you're not bound by the law, you don't care about it, you're another. But because I want to be perfectly precise, I apply to antenna what the law says. Do you know what the law says? That I'm given the possibility of directly entrusting. Do you know what direct assignment is? That I'm calling who I think I am, and I'm giving him the play. Question: But did it, did it? Yes, the procedure is direct assignment. Did it happen like this or was another procedure followed? The procedure, while giving the possibility of direct delegation, now comes my service - not me! - which reads: "Today, on 14 December, Mrs. Jackres, an invitation to show interest, published? Yes, sir. Where's it published? Where all the invitations are published, i.e. published in the Central Office of Public Contracts, KIMIDIS, and an announcement is made on the website of the Ministry of Interior and an announcement is made on the website of the EDAS. Two calls of interest: One for a project of 2,700,000, which - to avoid any impression - is not the reward of what the project undertakes. This is the cost to the media of the information campaign. You'll hear what the reward is. The second sub-project of 300,000 for creation and creativity, for what it is that they will play to make the information material. Is there an invitation of interest, Mrs. Jackrey? It can be done. Do companies show up? They show up. Guess something else! A committee is set up only by officials - no one else! - which is published and raised in the 'DENMARK', it has an ADM. So you're familiar with all this, as long as you're diligent and watched. The process is being opened, tenders are being checked, technical tenders are being checked, and guess what the criterion is finally being awarded: whoever gave the most, the best offer, the best economic criterion!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u18	In conclusion, Mr Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. But allow me to conclude, because I shall speak in dentistry on another subject. And of course, it's given to the broker. Question: Did you want to give it somewhere else? So the legal procedure has been followed, in accordance with the law you have passed, the work is assigned to the broker, and I hear that you want to do a cross-party committee to decide what, Mrs. Jackres? Will the parties be gathered, will we call the JRC, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, to decide where to give the project? Are you all right? This is signed by the Ministry's official secretary. What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? Don't you have anything to say and say these things? And I'm telling you this to close, you're telling me, because you're saying whatever it is, I'm kind of used to hearing whatever it is from SYRIZA, I'm not surprised. Involve officials in this case? Are you guys questioning the procedure? Are you wondering if these people feel like hearing that they're doing business and scandals while they're implementing the law? Has it occurred to you that someone might be embarrassed by all that you say and ask for protection from justice for these words? For the rest, I will return to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u21	Minister, I wonder how you, a law-approved lawyer, were allegedly analyzed seven minutes from your prototype - seven minutes from your prototype! - to analyse me, to suggest to me, also legal, what procedure you are following for this assignment. Look, because you're scratching in the bag of tsapani, we're going to catch the incidents one by one and you're going to give me seven minutes' comfort, Mr. President, to analyse to the Minister what procedure has been followed. In 2019, in May 2019, Mr Voridis, as you quite rightly said, the then government of SYRIZA actually allocated EUR 1,300 000 to a multinational colossal, which you had used in the past to allocate the funds for the election campaign of the European elections, the municipal elections and the first and second Sundays. Listen to the sizes: May 2019, two months before the election - you understand, right? - 1.300,000 euros to actually make three election campaigns, European elections, regional and local elections first and second in a colossal, truly multinational, which your party and your government had used in the past. What are you guys doing? You come three years before the election, about two and a half years after the election, you are directly outsourced by the process that you have followed in a company home, with no global experience, without having followed any competitive or comparative procedure of alternative multinational providers, because it is proven, Minister, whatever you say, in this case multinationals have better performance and better management of such international campaigns. And now let's see exactly what has happened - precisely - with this company, with which we used to have our original contractor, now we have our original advertising company. I am presenting to the minutes, in order to inform the Greek people through the press, what is this company, what is its relationship with Maximos and the Prime Minister's office, what is the company and what is its relationship with the New Democracy election campaign, what is its relationship with the campaign "Measure up I" and what is its relationship, Mr. Minister, with the failed campaign of the Ministry of Tourism and the particular counsel of the Prime Minister, which if it hadn't erected a pallian uprising, you would have turned it into "Cabanada Number II". I'm putting these in the Minutes, and if you want, we're talking with names. I give them to you, indeed, to study them, so that you can see them, which I am sure you know very well. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Jackis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A small Greek company with no international experience, 3m euros spend the year, two and a half years before the elections, which has taken four more campaigns in New Democracy. But, well, aren't you causing your luck? Are there no other companies in the country or other multinational companies to manage such costs? Honestly, haven't you created unfair competition in the market with what you're doing? And I now come to the campaign itself. Look, if you're smiling, there's daily - and I'm sure you do - a river of articles and news and writing about the Greeks' right to vote in the next election, when they do. You don't do this, but you do what you did with the Pecha list. What are you practically doing? You buy a view of your influential Prime Minister instead of the price of 3m euros, a Prime Minister who, when he goes out and talks to the media, the eight out of ten citizens disapprove him, a Prime Minister who in the past year arrived, Minister, at the point in locking his Facebook comments. Even Lukashenko did not do that in Belarus! Do you understand that? To save his international leak! If you believe that, in this way, you will attract foreign voters, bringing this Prime Minister, the failed one, I think you are mistaken! And now I come to the right as such, because - you know - and SYRIZA and I want to see the greatest possible mobilisation of the Greeks abroad in order to participate in this process, because the process, Minister, we started it, and we did not do so, like you in Macedonian, who first sat 'Greek Alexanders' and then came here and congratulate Zaev. We had a specific view - and we tabled this - on the drafting of the bill. You weren't a minister then. And what did we say? That, yes, we want all Greeks to vote abroad, without exceptions and without filters, and we want them to be represented with fifteen of their own Member States from their homes. So what, in practice? Here you have taken the axe and cut these proposals - the areas that SYRIZA has put forward - because all you care about is to mobilise your own voters and buy, of course, the favor of the homosexual means, as you did with the Greek domestics in the realm, so that you can escape your upcoming surely crushing of your election, in which case elections occur. Look, I'm throwing you the glove, and I challenge you, Minister. And really, to tell the truth and to be honest: Yes, we want the support of the media, of the genital media, because it is the unadulterated voice of Greece abroad. And join us to say this programme 'Support programme for homosexuals', but finally pull the curtain of hypocrisy! You're not doing it because of the genital media, Minister! They are doing us a favor and they need our support to continue to exist and they must continue to exist. So stop them on campaigning. You're not campaigning. As I said before, you are essentially exporting a model of media recruitment through public money. Now, from there on, the state of the right, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u22	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u23	Let me close with that, Mr President. The state of right sent our parents abroad because of poverty. The bankruptcy of 2009 sent our children economic migrants, the generation of Brain Drain, abroad, and you are the ones who are doing what you care about. And you shatter the generation of Brain Drain, Minister, and of course you have to come to the intergroup to see how we organise the campaign and all the other issues that arise from the platform that has been opened and from the rejections made! And you're trying side by side, with tax citizenship games to exclude them from this angered generation, from this sacred right to vote. But know that after the infatuation comes the nemesis and punishment and cleansing comes, Mr. Voridis, and from your destiny it is impossible to escape. Now, at social media, there is always a party and what you will get on the polls abroad is summarised in just one word: 'doubleness', Minister, and you will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u25	First of all, Mrs Jackson, I'm so glad you didn't come back to the scandal. It's very positive that we're done. And of course, you did not come back, because how do you come back when we apply provisions that we have adopted together, and of course, there is no question of not just legality, but neither of order? Now, you've been consumed in your denture in making my corporate profile and being critical of this company. Nor do I know her nor have I met her, except in the context of a presentation of the work that we are doing and which you will see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u26	Some people know her well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u27	I don't know her, Mrs. Jackie! You guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, you guys, I don't do it. So I, because I'm not dealing with companies, I know what I've done. So the invitation of interest was raised, who wanted to come. If they came, they stayed, I have no other way to do this. If you had any better idea, you should have called for others to join the competition, your friends who know them. Because I don't know them or them, I don't do them either. The process is what it is. It's not the Minister's job, in my opinion, or yours either. But it seems to have other perceptions in SYRIZA, judging from the last preliminary, because some people talk to someone. You are interested in media. I don't!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u28	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u29	I don't have any mediashops or mediashops.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u30	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Jackrey, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u32	So I do not know them, nor do they know me, nor do I teach them, except in the context of the work they have to do, and that is the end of the debate. I wonder, however, when the invitation of interest has been made and there have been no others, in your opinion, who had to do this? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let's go to the next one. You have a great deal of anxiety, I heard you say, and amazing things, about the protagonist role you took in voting on the frustrations. What protagonist role? The New Democracy plan has not been implemented but in a small place, to cast a vote on the emigrants, because you veto, because you did not want to widen the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u33	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u34	Of course, it is and has heard all this very clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u35	You put ten filters...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u36	Don't interrupt, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u37	Did we do it? Come on, let's get them out now! I'm taking you out tomorrow morning. Let's vote to get the filters out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u38	Ms. Jackres, there's no tritology, no holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u39	Let's get them out of here, if that's what you want. You want to get them out. Come on! Yours and our votes are enough to make it. Let's get the filters out, the two years of stay at thirty-five! Come on, let's get them out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u40	We didn't suggest them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u41	To hear your headmaster commit! So let go of that, too. Let's go to third. I got one. You have had an interest - I do not know if it is sincere, I say it is not sincere, but in any case you have stated it, so let us leave it this way - for the best possible information for the Greeks. Right? And that a methodology should therefore be followed for this information. I, Ms. Jackie, don't pretend to be the communist or the media expert. That's not my job. I don't do that. However, there are people who are involved in this and who have undertaken this work. This company is on it. You're telling me about the cross-party. We'd be happy to discuss it in the cross-party. I'll propose something better and I'll do something better. In the House, in the committee responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u42	We invited you to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u43	...institutionally, the project, the campaign, will be presented and the methodology for the distribution will be presented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u44	...it matters...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u45	Of course they will. They'll be presented by the company, not by me. I have nothing to do with this, nor will I be involved in it, ma'am. The company's gonna do this. The company will come and present them to you. See and tell your opinions. We said you're better than me with companies and communications. I admit my flaws! So the company will come and present them to you, and of course through a very open and clear procedure. Watch what you say until then, because I know the methodology. Note what you say about how the distribution is to take place, because you may be surprised by the way in which the distribution is to take place, which will not allow talk. I conclude by saying this: I understand your anxiety about the issue of the vote on the faults. I get it! Mr. Paulakis has said it before you. They're right-wing and nationalists, and they put me in the interior ministry to get their vote. You have real animosity with democratic Hellenism. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u46	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u47	I don't know why. It results from the position of your staff, but also from the stress you express on the way in which this process will be organised. In closing, I would like to thank you for the advice on my political future. Be sure to take them very seriously into account. It's nice of you to advise me. I'll have it all in my head!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Next and final is the third with number 562-12-32021.Qualifications for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Security of jobs for employees of contractors in the Municipality of Kalamaria". And it will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are bringing to Parliament a very serious issue, the fact that four workers with disabled people' employment contracts in the Municipality of Kalamaria are at risk of redundancy, as the subsidised OAS programme, as well as the employment programme for disabled people, is shortly being completed. They have been workers who have been working for years in the Municipal Commercial Tourism Corporation of Kalamaria, a legal person. However, despite the possibility of the law, the Kalamaria municipal authority, Minister, has not so far shown itself prepared to convert these people's contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. You also know that according to Law No 3227/2004, which applies until the new provisions have been adopted, in accordance with the last law you have passed, the employer who wishes to continue to employ these people and after the completion of the OAED programme can do so, because they are considered to have been placed under Law No 2643/98 and receive special state care. The decision of the Kalamaria Municipal Council about a month ago made the decision that these four workers should continue to work in this municipal company and that their contracts should be converted from one to another into an indefinite period of time. However, as I told you so far, Mr Minister, the Kalamaria municipal authority is trying to hide unsuccessfully, in our opinion, behind the board of directors of this municipal company and makes it clear that, with the termination of their contracts, workers will be fired and taken on the path of unemployment. So we ask you, Minister, what measures do you intend to take so that these four workers, I repeat workers with disabilities, do not become redundant and their contracts may well be converted into contracts for indefinite duration and that all four workers made redundant about two months ago in Kalamaria, because there has already been another equivalent dismissal of four people back in the same municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you have quite accurately described the legal situation. It's like you call it. In fact, these are fixed-term contracts within the framework of a programme of grants for virtually unemployed people with disabilities. Indeed, these contracts remain active as a fixed period of time until the end of their term. Furthermore, according to Article 56 of Law No 4186/2013, the possibility of continuing to employ SMEs has been allowed to continue, but once the municipality has decided to do so. So you have really described the legal situation very clearly. We must therefore agree here that it is a municipality decision or, in any case, a municipal company, this is a particular issue, in order to judge whether it is going to renew these conventions, extend them, turn them into indefinite time or not. I don't know what you're asking me right now. If, as you can see, this is the responsibility of the municipality, there is an answer from the municipal company at your disposal in correspondence. But I do consider that it makes no sense for me to convey the opinion of the municipality. It is not the job of the Interior Minister to say what the Kalamaria Municipality is going to do. This is the responsibility of the Municipality of Kalamaria. Therefore, if you ask me something different - because that is the situation, it is a decision by the municipal authority and the municipal company - the legal framework is there. They can do it if they want to and if they judge. I don't know if you suggest anything different. I didn't hear it. You're asking me if we're going to do more. But that is the institutional framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u53	I'll answer directly, Minister. Of course we call on you to call on the Kalamaria municipal authority to implement, as I think it may be, the specific provision of the law for both these four workers and the previous workers. I think this can be done by your Ministry, which also supervises the local government agencies. As you also know, of course, both municipalities and central government and regions are part of a single central government organisation. They are parts of the state. They are neither independent nor divided with Chinese Walls, despite having distinct and different functions. We believe that this possibility and this possibility, Minister, your Ministry has it. That is what we want you to exercise, that is, your right to ask the Kalamaria municipal authority to continue working on these workers. Can we now say here about the problems these people have in the matter of work? There is much more of these problems than other people who have no disability problems. Unemployment rates for disabled people, Mr President, are much higher than for the rest of the population, and that is why - rightly so - there are positive provisions and positive regulations in the laws than before. Of course, according to the latest law, this positive provision has been abolished, but there is the time limit until September to be taken by the Ministerial Decision approving the recruitment plan for 2022, in order to make this recruitment. So there's time for both your ministry and the municipality. That is what we are asking you to do, of course, and to re-enter all four previous ones. It is just a similar, comparable case of four other workers who, Mr President, were fired on 3 December 2020. People with disabilities, i.e., were made redundant on the world day of people with disabilities. It's an irony, too. How can I say it? So that's what we're asking you to do. The municipal council supports these decisions. The attitude of the municipal authority and the mayor is completely incomprehensible. We really can't understand it. These people mustn't lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I am really sorry because I am obliged - I am not saying this for my colleague, but it sounds, in general, in the Chamber - to explain about what is self-evident. Self-government is self-government. I have no possibility of suggesting them either to intervene or to motivate them or to do nothing. Clear things! I understand that, particularly in his view of the Communist Party, this division, if you like, exists in our Constitution in relation to a single state function, does not exist. The Communist Party is not reconciled with this principle. But, as our Constitution defines, things are clear. The Minister of Interior cannot tell the mayors what they will do. He can't point to the district managers what they're gonna do. This is called self-government. They do what they have responsibilities to do. How's the Interior Minister? In fact, the Ministry of Interior has the supervision of the TAs in the context of decentralised administrations. It is supervision - and I stress it - of legality and not of feasibility. Here, Mr Colleague, we have no question of legality. The law is clear. The municipality has the possibility, if it wishes, to maintain them. It also has the possibility, if it does not wish, not to maintain them. Its decision shall be lawful, and the decision to maintain and the decision not to maintain it. It's in the judgement of the municipal authority, the municipal company. So it is good to distinguish them. I really am not saying this at all for you. I say this because I have many questions from parliamentary control about various democracies' actions and actions. Allow me, these questions must be put to the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u56	And that's where they practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u57	Listen, Mr. Comrade. I say that for the debate between us. The House is neither the Kalamaria Municipal Council nor the Regional Council. And I don't call it disgraceful. I'm saying it's not. We're not doing this job. That's not our job. They do other things in municipal councils, other things in regional councils, other things in Parliament, other things in government. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So this has to be made clear, because I too - and I say to you politically and humanly - have neither will I have any intention nor do I have any responsibilities that do not correspond to me nor carry people's voices - and that is not right - which cannot be heard today. The Mayor of Kalamaria is not here to answer you. What am I supposed to do? Can I answer you on his behalf? The man's sent some papers. Recognize the view of the mayor of Kalamaria? It's neither right for me nor for you. So I think that here and here, Parliament should raise issues relating to parliamentary scrutiny of the actions of the government. In this case, the Government does not have any action. So I have nothing more to answer to you, except that this is a matter that you should follow. I see you're interested. I understand the sensitivity of the matter. Obviously, the issue is sensitive. You are interested and should follow it as part of the actions and operation of the municipal authority and the Municipality of Kalamaria. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We are interrupting for five minutes, so that we can then enter the legislative work agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Following an Investment Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Unified Anonymity Company under the name "Hellenic Chrysos Monopoly REPRESENTATION OF MATTERS AND INDUSTRIA CHRYS" and related provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 March 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that rapporteurs and special speakers be involved, the Parliamentary Representatives, a first cycle, which will include one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and two twelve-faced speakers with the following proportion: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. With Webex teleconference service - webex platform - there are also two dozen-one-one-one-one-one-speaking speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u60	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, I would inform the House that a plea of non-constitutionality has been lodged by the Members of the Merra25. Because I see it is about a number of articles and it is multi-page, I would suggest that we should have a debate after the end of the speaker's speech so that the rapporteurs can also be informed. You'll be distributed immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, we too have a statement of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u62	Good. Bring her in. We'll announce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u63	Just in the Minutes, I think we should follow the practice at some point, the objection to be discussed before the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u64	If there's another objection...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u65	No, I'm saying another thing, Mr. President. I say that at some point it is good to follow the Rules of Procedure that the objection precedes the position. In any case, we won't fight about it today. But now the position of all the rapporteurs will be taken, and then the objection will be debated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u66	Here we are, you will testify to it and it is understood that they will be discussed at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Approval of an investment agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Unified Anonymity Company under the name ‘ELLENIC FRAMEWORK INNOLOGY’ and related provisions’. In addition, the Ministers of State, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice, as well as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance on 12 March 2021 on ‘Conclusion of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office The Hague 23 June 1993 as amended in Copenhagen on 9 April 2002 and Copenhagen on 23 November 2011’. Finally, the Ministers of State, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Education and Religion, Justice and Maritime Policy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Development and Investment and Foreign Affairs submitted on 12 March 2021 a draft law by the Ministry of Digital Governance on "Following the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Member States on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation on the other on the European satellite navigation programmes". They shall all be referred to the relevant committees. Mr Haimaras has the floor as the rapporteur for the New Democracy for 15 minutes. I would ask everyone to keep the time. We now say it at the outset so that we do not have to make and limit time to the last speakers. That's not fair. That is why the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, the Members of Parliament, and the ministers too, should keep the time. Mr. Grimara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is probably well known to everyone - to me it was not my duty to say - that according to the World Gold Council Greece is among the forty largest countries in gold reserves holding the thirty-third second place. The total mineral wealth of the country is so important that it was one of the economic reasons for accepting our country at the time of the EEC. The 1978 report stated that when Greece accepted its extensive mineral wealth it would supply the common market with a wide variety of raw materials which would help to ensure substantial Community self-sufficiency in many products. I must remind you that forty-two years since 1978, that is, since the Karamanlis government has envisioned the creation of a complex of metallurgical treatment of lead and zinc concentrates instead of being exported raw, laying the foundations for the national policy of exploiting our mineral wealth. Since then, we have mostly watched relics, constant omissions, intentional or non-driving, and a lack of political vision. As characteristic time stations of all this I refer to in 1983 when the plan for the creation of the metalworking complex was abandoned in 2003 when the investment was frozen and the workers were made available to avoid social explosions. The government then drew up a social programme to support former workers in the Kassandra mines, while the company, "TVX ELAS", went bankrupt. And we reach 2015, i.e. in the period of SYRIZA's 'creative ambiguity', which was its only contribution to cause social disruption, conflicts, involvements in courts, investment uncertainty and as a result of all these investments freezing. The draft law we have in our hands puts a definitive end to this unacceptable political, social, environmental and economic approach of the previous government and does so for three main reasons: Firstly, because we have ideologically and practically a long distance from the country's development path. The ideological and practical approach to the government's development dimension is certainly a long way from that of SYRIZA. Instead of trying to prevent investment, by insisting on disadvantages, omissions or even errors, and finally condemning investment in failure, as the previous government has successfully done, we are leaning over the problem and finding solutions. And I'm explaining so I don't get wrong. Envelope "Greek": Enclosed as an investment that does not serve the interests of the country, with omissions, etc. Progress on SYRIZA? Zero. Progress on New Democracy? The investment has begun and will soon show its benefits to work, but also to the economy. “ELLENIC FLOW” on SYRIZA: The bad investment of a colonial nature, as reported by reports. What did you do? You have identified the disadvantages and stayed on them, instead of finding the solutions that exist. "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" in the New Democracy: Just a few weeks after the elections and with the relevant decisions by the Board of Directors. Already regretted, the RIS proceeds to permits to dismantle operations in Skouria and Olympiad. Today we have the agreement reached between the state and the company negotiations, so that the road to the complete completion of the investment can finally be opened. Secondly, because, finally, we must prove before the Greek people that we are unscrupulously slandering and old cutting your complaints that we are extinguishing public wealth. Here I wonder what this irresponsible complaint serves. Let a limit to this insulting and unfounded account. The ministers are employees of the company, said the rapporteur for Officerial Response at the meetings of the committees. You told us we were auctioning the country. No, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we are not selling out the country. We try to rebuild it in a global competitive environment that is rapidly developing. This, dear, is only done with investments like the one we are discussing today and which will only benefit Halkidiki, for northern Greece, for the whole country, away from ideological obsessions that make us lose the forest, exposing a tree. Thirdly, because the argument and approach of counterpopulation is fortified in a person yesterday, and we are building Greece of the future. Here are the seven national and economic reasons that indicate and impose the need to revise the Greek State's contract with the Hellenic Republic, to coordinate the investment project of the contract signed in 2004 with the current market conditions and the minimum conditions of competition. Compliance with these conditions makes such a large and complex investment sustainable for the Greek public and local communities and economies. Secondly, to smoothly complete the most direct foreign investment in the country, which will create new and well-paid jobs in an area, central Macedonia, in which unemployment exceeds 20%. Thirdly, in order to lay down even more stringent conditions for the protection of the environment and to implement new technologies both during mining activity in the Cassandra mines and when the land is restored after the activity has been completed. Fourthly, in order to proceed with the development of a flagship investment that will show everywhere that the country has returned a page, gives a vote of confidence in genuinely long-term productive investment and is moving rapidly on the path of recovery and development. Fifthly, to give emphatically green light to the advent of foreign investment funds in the country, which at the time of the pandemic crisis is more necessary than ever. Sixth, to ratify a fair and equal commitment of a State and an investor in order to ensure the smooth implementation of investment planning and to maximise the benefit for the State and the local community. Finally, in order to definitively close the claims of the Greek State by the Greek State due to the multi-annual authorisation delay over the previous governments. The policy of the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is described in three main axes: Converting Greece to an investment destination, exploiting private initiative for the benefit of the public interest, creating a circular economy and new jobs. The new investment agreement, moving precisely within this framework, amends the 19-year-old contract with the Greek State, which with the other. 3220/2004 transferred all of the assets of "TVX HELLAS S.A.", the mines of Kassandra Halkidiki, that is, the "Greek Chrysos Monopoly S.A.", in a period of economic maruration of the mines of the region, with the sole investor at the time of the operation "Hellenic FRYSOS". It places the agreement on up-to-date bases, within a new institutional framework, which ensures the realisation of investment with transparency and accountability, as is the case with relevant foreign direct investment on a large scale in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a number of articles in the new investment agreement, which were of interest in the meetings of the committees. Articles 10 and 11 shall include the concepts of terms used in the Convention and the procedures for dispute settlement between the Contracting Parties. You will allow me to stress that Article 11 strengthens the concept of legal certainty which investments in our country require so much. At the same time, it puts the relationship between the parties on a new basis of mutual trust. At the same time, claims amounting to 850m euros were settled on the part of the Greek FYROM against the State, as emerged from 9 August and 20 December of 2018 from the company's out-of-court statements of state blockages. Article 12 and Annexes A and B define the new term of validity of the Convention at twenty-five years, with the possibility of an extension for an additional twenty-five years. The new investment plan provides for additional investments amounting to EUR 1.6 billion, of which EUR 0.9 billion is provided for in the first five years of its implementation. The rights conferred by the State on the company on the development of the mines, in accordance with the terms of the contract and the applicable law, are also specified. The mining concessions are listed in Annexes A and B accordingly and the mining area is defined. Articles 13 and 14 define the financial, commercial, construction and social commitments of the company towards the State. They concern mainly the obligations to pay an additional mining fee and the undertaking to make optimum use of the Kassandra mines. Whatever - I stress, any change in the investment project requires a public consensus. I would like to point out that there is no need for a SIP for the new investment project, as was not required for the original project. Article 15 and Annex F shall for the first time introduce arrangements and criteria for assessing the proposal for a metallurgy. It is planned to submit a proposal from the company within 12 to 24 months of the ratification of the contract for the financing and construction of a metallurgy plant. The proposal shall be assessed by the Metallurgy Committee to be set up for this very purpose and approved or rejected by a Ministerial Decision. It is clear, however, that, contrary to what has been said during the Committee's work, the "ELELANDIKI FRYS" will not be able to impose on the public proposal of metallurgy, which is not accepted by it. Articles 16 and 17 regulate the calculation, manner and time of payment of the additional mining fee by the company to the State, as well as the declarations and guarantees for the conclusion of a contract by both parties. I would like to underline something very fundamental here: the additional mining charge is calculated on the value of the metal content and not on the sales price of the concentrate on the sales tariffs, as it was. Consequently, the increase in mining production, as well as the increased mining fee, 10%, naturally entail an increase in public revenue. We are talking about EUR 8 million per year of the twenty-five-year contract. In Article 22, and more specifically, in Annex D, issues are dealt with concerning the granting of the necessary licences and problems encountered in previous years and which have hampered the normal implementation of the company's investment. In particular, there is provision for the renewal of the decision approving the environmental conditions of the Kassandra mines, which should be taken by the Hellenic FRAMEWORK, in order to ensure the protection of the environment on modern terms. Its duration shall be at least 15 years. Article 23 expressly states that archaeological findings of all kinds are covered by the provisions of the archaeological law and that the company bears the costs of all archaeological research and work that will occur in the mining areas it operates. A general memorandum of understanding and cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the company for the proper monitoring and execution of all archaeological research and related work is also introduced. Article 24, and in particular Annex G, defines the environmental protection conditions by introducing the institution of the independent environmental auditor, as well as the obligation of the company to comply strictly with the health and safety rules as provided for in the general and specific legislation of the country. The costs of the auditor shall be covered by the company, which shall publish a report every five years to assess the environmental and social status of the project and the mining activities. Article 25 lays down the obligations of the company relating to the implementation of employment programmes, maintaining existing and new jobs, as well as training programmes for workers at least every two years. Thousands of six hundred fifty are maintained and a thousand four hundred new, direct jobs are created, also two thousand indirect and ninety jobs are created during construction work. The company undertakes to prioritise the identification of all relevant activities, namely the recruitment and employment of employees, as well as the supply of goods and services by residents and suppliers in the wider region of Halkidiki, with a view to strengthening the local economy. In Article 26, the company undertakes to implement a forward social corporate responsibility programme of EUR 70 million. The funds will be used for cultural, social, environmental and charitable purposes of the local society and especially of the Municipality of Aristotle. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is endowed with impressive mineral wealth. Discussions, studies and findings are no longer enough to turn this wealth into real growth and benefit to the country. To make this transition requires creative thinking, creative and brave policies and these are served by the bill you have in your hands. I call on you to vote in favour of this agreement because it relaunches an important, essential and decisive investment for the local and national economy, after many years of delays that threatened its implementation, without any reduction in the protection of the environment and the cultural stock, such as Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself had made an election commitment to the people of Halkidiki. Today we are signalling a new and healthy principle for the Kassandra mines, for the benefit of all, the state, local societies, workers and investors. We are putting in place another milestone of our development planning in a country that finally starts attracting additional funds and large-scale investors, a country that runs hard on its feet, giving work to its children, who keeps her children here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to announce at this point that colleagues from SYRIZA have also objected to anti-constitutionalism. They will be discussed together with the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by the MPs of Mera25, after the end of the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u69	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam General, at a stage in the pandemic, the Mitsotakis Government has chosen to ratify in Parliament a colonial agreement at the expense of the interests of our country, at the expense of the interests of the citizens and of the institutions of Halkidiki, at the expense of the interests of the environment. This is a convention, which it signed without consultation, which concealed it from the local society and brought it directly to the House, so that we cannot change a single party. It is a contract which I would say is devalued both for Greece and for Europe as a whole, because it would be degrading even for an underdeveloped country. The contract makes this a chance. Today's debate is a proof of the government's pursuit of secretly and without reaction to this oppressive convention. Let us say this clearly: Yes, this contract has not been drafted by the Greek State, it has been drafted by the company, which uses the Ministry of Environment and Energy as its annex and the Ministers as its officials. Because he has found a friendly and convenient government, as he was asking throughout SYRIZA's governance period. This contract validates the divorce of the Mitsotakis Government with environmental policy, as has been recently demonstrated by the NATURA exemption article, with the suspension of demolitions, with the reduction of environmental licensing requirements. I have to say that the Minister was not here at the time, as he has not taken initiatives on the shamefulness of energy or on the price manipulation cartel, as the Greek industry denounces, since we are talking about an investment climate. But he came here today to present this robbery contract, which proves the enormous differences we have with Government Mitsotakis. We support sustainable development for society as a whole, while the Mitsotakis Government supports the slap, outlet and business function that is unequal, opaque and complex, so for very few. We are not talking about metallurgy as a whole. No, metallurgy is integrated into a sustainable development model and can also give Gross National Product and well-paid jobs. We're not talking about whether we want metallurgy in the north-east of Halkidiki. We are talking about this convention. Because that's what the government brought us. Because this convention does not guarantee work, neither the investment project, nor the return benefits to the municipality and the local community. With this convention - just to say it - too much prerogatives are granted to the company on resources, on land, on the Aegean Sea, on the environment, on infrastructure and on the granted of citizens' development and quality of life in Halkidiki. All other governments are committed to the remaining twenty-five plus twenty-five years so that they cannot question the contract, with a penalty to be made against the public and pay all the gains that the company will ask for at the time. The first special economic zone in Greece, where all the rights of the public are taken by a company, and the rights to use land, as well as tax exemptions, are enshrined. Thus, the State will lose its rights to the extent that it is not allowed to approach the company’s premises if the company’s auditor is not there and has not received the time permission. The auditors will, therefore, now see the "ELLENIC CHRYS". The Minister misled the local bodies, promised them that environmental conditions could improve some things from the contract, but he concealed them that this contract has so many unconstitutional features that it restricts the public and environmental conditions, because it says that these will be judged by the company's financial costs, proving that the company's cost, that is, the company's fund, to the Ministries of Mitsotakis Government is more important than the environment, and by life and European law. The new investment agreement comes to a point of guaranteeing, firstly, that there are no investors and that the company does not have investment capacity, but the Greek State commits to help it find investors. Unfortunately, we have ministers of a government who have evolved into agents of "ELENIKI CRYSOS" to improve its stock exchange position and thus accumulate goodwill, because it will probably not be able to make investments. The subject of the “ELLENIKI CHRYS” was an appeal during the ruling of the SYRIZA. With many communication shows and deception at that time, many current ministers and then New Democracy MPs misled workers in the region and institutions, obviously misled and cheated the media to some extent, but it was a piece of what we call 'instead of SYRIZA' plan. What did they say then? That SYRIZA doesn't want the investments. What is it today? That the Council of State has decided: firstly, that the studies were well rejected, because they were not sufficient and technically and environmentally. Secondly, that two years that the Mitsotakis Government has not been subjected to the same studies, which were, at the time, ready and bad SYRIZA did not approve. Thirdly, the contract now brought by the company itself and by the ministers accepts that the studies which at the time were not signed should not be submitted, but that they should go to the ultimate future, that is to say to the Greek bells. So SYRIZA's policy was correct, and Skourlet's decision to reject metallurgy studies and Stathakis' ruling on arbitrage and SYRIZA's long-term position. Because the company today states in the information note it sent to all the Members of its colony that instant melting is not a modern method and is not sustainable. But then we were told. You have accused us of an innovative and integrated method that we do not approve when the same company and you are saying today that it is neither sustainable nor modern and while the Council of State has ratified the policy of the SYRIZA Government. What we are aware of is that both the Hellenic FRAMEWORK and the New Democracy - because partners are - neither they wanted nor could make metallurgy. But the Minister comes today, in violation of a constitutional provision, to accept claims made by the company, which he should first of all send to the Legal Council of State. These are claims amounting to 800 million, as stated in the contract, which, Minister, is an infidelity against the Greek State and an infringement of duty. And that is a matter for you to be judged on. But it is not just this major issue of the contract. We have tabled serious infringements and infringements. First theme. On the basis of the 2003 contract, it has just found the company's refusal to manufacture the metallurgy and if the arbitration has found that the metallurgy is the core of the contract and the company has to comply, the Minister must immediately resort to the claim on the part of the public compensation claim and terminate the contract against the company. In other words, you have seventeen years a contract that at the core of the metallurgy comes the company and refuses to do the metallurgy, asks you to make it possible. And while you were required by the Arbitration of 2018, which has arisen by law, to denounce the contract and ask for compensation for your homeland for what you have sworn to represent, you do the favor of the company. You are violating your obligation under the 2004 Law Convention and making it another contract to settle it, in which the core of the metallurgy is not provided, it is not the core of the legal operation. Not to say that the Minister has underestimated the fact that already at secondary level courts decided that the infringement concerning environmental pollution was final, they imposed a fine of EUR 300,000, along with all the others that run from the infringement statements. We already have a condemnation of water officials and a trial for an environmental offence that is evolving, which has also not taken into account in order to cancel environmental authorisations. However, the disgrace of the convention has been said, ladies and gentlemen, that it violates a large number of provisions of European law and of the law of our country. That is why we have to withdraw and that is what we will put it up to the last minute of the sitting. It violates the legislation on the institutional framework of contracts. It introduces the benefits of a concession contract into a metallurgy contract. It infringes the competition framework and the State aid framework. And unfortunately I have to say that we will be tabling the relevant articles of the Treaty of Competition in the Minutes. In fact, I am referring to Article 107 of the Treaty, but also to Article 108, which states clearly that the State is obliged to inform the Directorate-General for Competition and to obtain approval before any action is taken. I shall put it to the Minutes, Mr President. It is something that also arises from the assignment of legal advisers to the Directorate-General for Competition, but which the Minister has underestimated and has not even put it as an option. In other words, there is not even the public guarantee to be protected if the European Union or any other institution puts obstacles to this convention or puts heresy and amendments. It's a very bad contract for the Greek public. It also does not include the provisions of the Strategic Environmental Discounts Directive which are mandatory, because you said it was a project, it is not a project alone. It does not include environmental licensing provisions, because it puts a precondition to the detriment of the Greek State that environmental conditions will come out based on the cost of the company, i.e. not on the value of the environment and European law. It also does not include provisions relating, for example, to European Union legislation on the impact on protected species, the environmental control legislation infringed in Article 24. I must say that the Constitution and European legislation are being violated here. Obviously, there are violations both of arbitration and of the rule of law as a whole. I will not go into the multiple issues of unconstitutionality that the Convention has. That is why we have objected to unconstitutionalism and I shall refer to it. However, the detailed analysis of the contract shows a large number of negative arrangements for both the public and Halkidiki. I'm sure the ministers who signed it didn't read it. Do you know who might have read it? I guess Mr. Hatzidakis, who held her fourteen months in his drawers and finally left the ministry and didn't sign it. It is also a question that should be resolved in the future, what is finally going on within the Mitsotakis Government. What exactly does the Convention, however, have to do with this, in addition to the serious institutional issues of violating duty, infidelity, unconstitutionality and violating European law? First issue. It clarifies that the company's investment plan is exclusively indicative and does not commit it. He expressly says that it can be abandoned. That's what the contract says. It says that it does not commit to jobs, those that the rapporteur, if you wish, has in a way presented for the local society - I will not say descriptions - because it says that it depends on the company's profits and profitability, on jobs. In fact, it says that the wage requirements will depend on whether local residents will be hired and on the subject of the framework, namely collective agreements that local society will seek. Profitability also depends on profit. Therefore, the company is not bound either for jobs, for environmental projects, for localisation or for reward benefits. It considers the strike and labour disputes to be of force majeure to the benefit of the company and to the detriment of the Greek State. It provides that total revenue - perhaps this is one of the possible consideration that the government is trying to present as positive - of this contract, which will be attributed to the Greek State, amounts to 1.7% of the company's gross revenue during the contract, which, ladies and gentlemen, is less than ten times the fees which are due from World Bank figures for global metallurgy. It is much lower than the fees collected by the sub-Saharan African countries. It's for this colony they've got us. It accepts as a price for the calculation of the mining fees in the concentrates the price that the company will declare on the invoice. Whatever statements you are in 2021 in Greece! What if he says zero? As zeros, will you characterize them? Is that why low mining charges are coming for our country? It reveals the investment plan, as we have said, that the company is looking for investors, and that it obliges the Greek State to sign with anyone, even if it is contrary to the interests of our country, an investor or a candidate, while it provides that capital is foreign capital, i.e. legal tax evasion. This is provided for in Article 19. It also obliges the Greek State to compensate the Greek State for the ‘Hellenic FRYSOS’ even if the contract is terminated at its expense, and even with an amount of 70% of the expected profits, in Article 32.1. It recognises in Article 10 as an existing extrajudicial dispute, which: Firstly, has been rejected by the Council of State, which considered that the studies were well rejected by Mr Skourletis in part. Secondly, it was rejected by the contract itself, which does not put metallurgy as a direct priority, because it does not have the possibility, the company says so. Neither sustainable nor innovative is this flash smelting metallurgy now. Above all, without the opinion of the Legal Council of the State, which is a constitutional obligation. It introduces a clause in Article 11 that the Greek State cannot bring any action, no claim, no contract condition, so we must have a permanent colony, a permanently fenced area, without the rights of the public, the citizens, the municipality and life in the Halkidiki region. And it gives almost without consideration, which is probably the exchanges, ladies and gentlemen, to say it, are the political exchanges that have been made by the New Democracy and the political agreement it has made before the elections about what it will do as a convenient government for the "ELLENIC FRUYS", that is to say to make the country a colony of "ELLENIC FRUYS". It abolishes compulsory metallurgy, which is also clearly mentioned instruments, and makes it potentially. It abolishes Articles 3, 4, 6, 7, which was the arbitration of the previous contract, namely those which enabled us to have even one text saying that the company has undertakings. It violates the rules of competition because no other mining company, particularly foreign companies, is granted these rights. And we need to tell you clearly. The rights granted to a company violates and is contrary to the rights of all other Greek companies. This is the different model, which is uninvested, which is imported. It does not provide for a strategic environmental impact study. It does not even provide for a new environmental impact study, despite the fact that it is a major project. It binds the hands of the Greek State, which says it cannot set environmental conditions if they cost the company. So a potion would be free? Is there any legislation that the environment does not have a minimum cost for the businessman, so that activity and life be sustainable next to the business? Repeals the Ministry's Mining Licences Department. Because now the authorization for metallurgy, when it is done and whatever it is done, will not be granted by the public, will be given by a committee involving 50% of the company. I mean, Yannis's buying, Yannis's drinking. And, Mr President, it enables the company to hire an environmental auditor to pay him, who will not control the company, but the public. Because it is no longer possible to go to the premises unless it is notified, because it must give its opinion at all and it will monitor the implementation of environmental conditions. And what's the most important thing for everyone? No institution of our country can issue an administrative act unless the auditor has given his first opinion. So the auditor doesn't control the company. The Greek State controls and will restrict it. It is unprecedented what is happening in our country in 2021, not just to grant public rights, citizens' rights, rights of life, but also to put a public auditor for the next twenty-five plus twenty-five years. These are the limits of your own political arbitrariness and of your own waste. Even the yacht is granted and arbitrary on it is legalized - such legislation does not exist in Greece, it is the first time that it is done - without any consideration. This, too, is contrary to legislation. After a week of discussion, the loose ends are multiplied, as you can see. We haven't got any answers. The Minister has not submitted to Parliament the study of the "GRANT THORNTON", which paid the Greek State to assess the contract. He has concealed from the MPs details of the Greek State, nor has he placed himself on the depreciation that in this obscure information note the "ELELENIKI CORYS" has testified against the services. It says in this note - and I will say again officially here again - that open cases of alleged environmental infringements are based on inaccurate and unambiguous audit reports from the Environment Inspectorate, which the company has insulted on justice. First lie. The Court of Appeal is over. There is a definitive conviction and a definitive fine of EUR 300,000 for those violations that the ministers had hidden in their drawers at the time of the New Democracy, because they are infringements of 1214 most and have now gone to criminal. So the Minister must be placed and said: is it a lie that the environmental infringement case has not been finalised? And it is something for which the Greek State has finally been justified in the courts. Secondly, is it the responsibility of environmental inspectors, who are not doing their job well? Are you the Minister of a service that does not do its job well and is dissatisfied with business, as the "Hellenic FRYSOS" says, or is the Greek Parliament lying falsifiedly?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u71	Finish, Mr. Femmel, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u72	In fact, I have to say - and I close with that, Mr President - that another great lie of the Greek FRYS in this form, which I have to present, is that while it finds that the market conditions have changed the metallurgy parameters and this method is economically unsustainable, it takes back what it said, namely, instant melting, says, Mr Skourlet - and this is about you - that nothing has to do with the reasons which the metallurgical unit has not built with the application of the method, but with political manipulations. Is the decision of the Council of State of Greece, which has ratified the rejection of the permits, a political trick, Mr Skreka? Do you give a company the right to consider us as a colony of Sub-Saharan Africa and to write such things and have not yet been placed in the Greek Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u73	Finish it, Mr. Femmel. You've been in the nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u74	We state that together with the residents, together with the workers whom we called on the House, but for a strange reason they have not come, we will fight this contract both in the Council of State and in the European institutions and we will institutionalise the issues of infidelity against the Greek public of the ministers who signed the Convention and the violation of duty. As long as this contract passes through us, it will not be implemented, in order not to embarrass Greece, so that Greece does not spread to the investment community that Greece is an underdeveloped country, a colony of Hellenic FRYSOS, without the rule of law, with gold and "Dalton" to do the task. No, Greece is the country of democracy, progress and a progressive government will restore all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Mr. Femmelle. The reason is now the special speaker of the Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has decided to negotiate in secret the amendment of the contract with the company "Halkidiki" for the mines of Halkidiki, away from the lights of local society, even though it is a society that we all know how split over all these years, a society which in no way must relive the same division. This, of course, also shows the government's intention to deal with the conventions and concessions it is planning from now on. None of what we have said or of the very important things that the institutions have put forward last week could be incorporated or corrected in the convention which is currently being ratified in the Greek Parliament. The negotiation on this contract took place in the preamble to the Municipality of Aristotle and the local society. This features the decision of the municipal council, which continues: "We were called to draw the bill from Parliament's site, without ever being officially notified to us. We consider this to be disrespectful to local government and local society, which is called upon to coexist with this activity and investment.". This is precisely the word for word contained in the municipal council decision. At least, Minister, the draft contract should have been put before the municipal council before the final signatures were made. Unfortunately, the government has confined itself to a formal interparliamentary process of this convention, a contract which, as I mentioned in the committee, is bad, is a heterogeneous agreement in favour of the Hellenic FRYSOS and against the interests of the Greek public. This is a problematic contract with many unanswered questions, with many benefits and few obligations for the company. I would like to stress here today that we are not talking about whether anyone is for or against investment or whether they are for or against mining activity. What we are now coming to judge is whether this particular contract, which the government has concluded, is beneficial to the public interest. Therefore, for eleven reasons, which I will develop below, we consider that this contract does not serve the public interest. And it does not serve it for the following reasons: why does it not guarantee the rights of the public and its revenue to the absolute? It does not claim compensation that is due by the State when the S.C.E. and the arbitration order confirmed infringements of the company's contractual obligations. It does not limit, but is geometrically multiplying the chances that taxpayers will be asked to put their hands in the pocket for compensation to the company, because, in our view, there are clauses - loopholes in the new contract with public accountability events, especially by binding the municipality and the region on obligations that cannot be met in time. The municipality and the communities cannot define the reward projects themselves and will unfortunately be successful in seeking benefits for the local society from corporate responsibility actions chosen by a company. Also, it does not ensure that we will not see some shells of facilities and skull site in the area, which will be abandoned and plundered. It does not give priority to the inhabitants, but to the company, in order to have full access and priority to the wells and waters of the region. It does not explicitly exclude the use of cyanide and other toxic substances for the extraction and processing of ores. It does not upgrade the public environmental auditors' body to an independent authority, as the Pissaridis report clearly proposes to the Government - this report which has all solved it - but defines an independent environmental auditor, which the company will pay to control. And where, of course, he is not present or is not in agreement with anything, he will be void. So you want us to have a green government a card, just like you always do. Where the Pissaridis report suits, we call it panacea and where it does not suit, we ignore it. Where we regulate the environment is green and where others object to investment. What a beautiful account! Also, it does not ensure well-paid jobs and there are no specific commitments for the recruitment of the municipalities and communities next to the mines, while the risk of losing many jobs from other sectors such as tourism and the primary sector. It does not guarantee the creation of metallurgy, but puts asterisks, opens escape windows, makes problematic concessions and leaves investment plans as future air loose ends, especially by referring to the bells of presenting a reliable metallurgy method that is compatible with the protection of the environment. The way in which the Committee on Metallurgy is set up and operated by both parties, unfortunately leads to the creation of metallurgy with mathematical precision in a dead end and puts a definitive tomb in which we seek to make our country a producer of gold. And finally, there is no monitoring committee on the implementation of the Convention by all the parties that at regular intervals will inform the Greek people, the Parliament and the local community of whether the terms of this convention are complied with, i.e. whether investment is made if we achieve the objectives for the environment, if the conditions agreed are respected. And I don't understand why we're afraid of all this, because we're afraid of accountability and clear rules. So all the above elements force us to say 'no' to this convention. All of this if it had a contract, it would be a beneficial contract for public and local society. We say 'yes' to investment, we say 'yes' to mining activity, but under terms and conditions, terms and conditions that protect the environment and work, which bring maximum return to local communities and which are decided upon after exhaustive consultation with them and not just through formal parliamentary procedures, by means of interoperable procedures with greedy, unfortunately, positions of the bodies that cannot, in their word, change anything. As we all watched, all the bodies and residents who participated in the hearing had something important to say to us, something which was unfortunately simply recorded in the minutes of the meetings. There have been issues such as: tax evasion of the company through triangular transactions, the favourable protection of investment by invoking the Law of 1953 on the protection of funds abroad, problematic for ignoring a seismic breach in the construction of the waste dam, reactions to grant the unobstructed and exclusive use of the saint, the beach and port facilities by the company, the fact that ELDORADO GOLD is a low-cost company planning the cheaper mining in the world. We have been particularly concerned by the reference made by the institutions to the so-called additional mining fee, but also by the normal mining charges, which are not only smaller than the internationally anticipated, but also by the way in which they are calculated and the ways they exist. Unfortunately, they are at risk of being reduced to an even greater degree, since unfortunately, the determination of the exact amount of volume, content and actual value of the condensation and ore to be recovered is a very open process to smuggling. Such a procedure therefore escapes the direct control of the Greek State and cannot be underestimated. The question was therefore asked why precise volumes and quantity of condensation exported are not made by a competent State agency and these are derived from the sales invoices that the company will submit to the competent authorities. Another point that has been raised by the operators is the charging of road networks in the region and who has responsibility, who takes responsibility for their maintenance and repair. Millions of tonnes of goods will be transported by lorries from public networks. The deputy mayor told you, the mayor told you, the presidents of the local communities told you. The company has the obligation since the previous contract to maintain the road network, the road to Stavros - Army, but the situation, as we have described, is unfortunately tragic, with a risk of this happening on all the roads of Northern Halkidiki. So we see that there are a number of smaller or larger and very serious issues that the contract does not address or leave them to be regulated for later. In addition to the first article of the bill, however, the bill includes a second article on which, Minister, I would ask you again to clarify the starting date of the 50 years for the concession of the mines. There is therefore a dignostication of whether this concession begins in 1973 or 1976. You haven't answered that. There has been absolutely nothing and I would therefore like to ask you whether all the parties involved agree with the interpretation you have given of the beginning since 1976. Ladies and gentlemen, what we see in this Convention today to be ratified by the Government is that it creates badly far-reaching and negative precedents, badly fetched and negative precedents for all the concessions it will be called upon to negotiate, and then, badly conceived and negatively precedents for clauses and indemnity for public accountability, badly feasibly and negatively precedented in the specific and hybrid shape of environmental control by the public and 'independent' environmental control mechanisms, which, of course, along with any public control mechanisms, will be called upon to implement, unfortunately, anti-environmental to the essence of the legislation that you are constantly going through and you have passed the time you are government. And all these ugly feats and negative precedents are beginning to spread elsewhere. We already see a new type of concession applied to individuals and regulations by way of derogation from any other legislation. After the ghetto of gold in Halkidiki, the government, unfortunately, prepares a golden ghetto in the Greek. It is sad that it is happening and happening in the pandemic. In any case, all this has nothing to do with what we and what it needs at the moment, what the Greek society needs. Not all of this is balanced, sustainable development of the centre and of the region of Greece. You cannot level them all by putting the fake "white or black" dilemma. Take it, vote or vote against. You can no longer say that if we want foreign investments in the country, this will be the distorting and dangerous way that you choose. It cannot be tolerated by the citizens that these problematic arrangements become a norm for attracting investment and foreign capital. Change rota before it's too late. Finally, I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by five colleagues from the Change Movement. With this amendment we want to give a clear signal on how we believe that local government should be dealt with in relation to such heavy activities that take place within the limits characterised by the organization of the region in the context of the development of a national metal strategy. We have therefore tabled an amendment concerning the increase in the percentage received by municipalities from mining leases to 40% with the possibility of further increase and, secondly, the direct return of the green fee from quarrying activities in local communities. We believe, in other words, that local government, local communities, need to receive the maximum possible back-up benefits, especially today, which is called on by the central state and the Public Investment Programme to do substantial projects and measures for the environmental recovery of climate change, as well as projects for social protection and care. Today society is more sensitive and citizens rightly demand control for environmental compliance by business in every step and an increased social environmental dividend from mining activities. So we propose that the municipalities should return at least 40% of the revenue from the rents collected by the Greek State for the mines with the possibility of adjusting this percentage to higher levels when there are exceptional cases, such as pandemics, natural disasters on the basis of a joint ministerial decision by the Ministers for Finance, the Environment and Energy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with the conclusion drawn from us on this bill. On the basis of what has been said by the institutions, and the data and data we have been able to analyse on the basis of this amended contract, I fear that many Cassandras will be confirmed for what will happen in Cassandra in Halkidiki. Unfortunately, in our view, we are not going to see metallurgy in Halkidiki but we will only see surplus outwards, with little benefit for the local society. Unfortunately, we will not have gold production here in Greece and the national economy will not have substantial revenues and benefits that it could have, as only stones and concentrates are exported instead of metals. For us, then, is the gold of this contract, and we ask the government again: Is there a case or thought of getting funds from the Recovery Fund to find a financial arrangement for the company to implement its contractual obligations? I have asked you four times, Minister, and I repeat it and you must say your choice, let it be so simple, a 'yes' or a 'no'. It is of particular value to state this clearly here in the House and to know that the Greek people will only be financed by the Recovery Fund that projects are based on the principle of non-significant damage to the environment and not on projects such as those or of such a character, such as the investment in Halkidiki. We're waiting for your answers. We call for the amendment, which we have tabled, to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, before anything else we want from the JRC to express our deep grief about the tragic accident that occurred the day before yesterday outside the House. We stand with respect for the tragic moments that the unfortunate family is going through and the great soul that it shows. It goes without saying that the circumstances of the accident need to be investigated, responsibility must be attached to the full and, of course, measures must be taken at that particular dangerous point so that there is no repetition of such accidents. I now come to the subject of today's sitting. This second time contract of the Greek State with the company "ELLINIKIKO FRYSOS" constitutes an amendment to the first, initial contract of 2004. Therefore, the current contract that was amended at the request of the company is certainly its continuation. Sixteen months, from November 2019 to February 2021, the Government's consultations with the company for today's contract were kept under conditions of absolute secrecy. It is true that there has been little public information on this issue and there has not been a single debate in this House on this very serious issue. Naturally, the logical request of the directly interested Municipality of Aristotle Halkidiki to participate in these consultations, as it was ignored, has been despised, the right of the people of Halkidiki and of all the people to be informed of what is at the bottom of it. But the American Ambassador did not do the same. He turned out to be well informed. He bears witness to this in his own presence in the official signature of this revised convention on 5 February, which he, first and foremost, announced in public on the same day as a celebratory tweet. "Expected" will be said by someone, since today's contract was concluded with both its admiration and its blessings. Besides, they don't hide at all. On the contrary, the American Embassy's multi-level interventions on foreign investment are advertised in our country, business colleges such as "MICROSOT" or "ONEX", which, after putting Syros' Neorio and Elefsina shipyards into its hands, in order to operate them effectively as technical bases of the American War Fleet, has now opened its appetite and wants the Scaramagas shipyards. Let us not forget, of course, the ports of Alexandroupolis and Kavala, which are seen as sprinkled by the Americans and intended to serve their geostrategic objectives for our people. And yet, even though we constantly call upon him, the Minister reluctantly refuses to give even an explanation to the people of all this secretiveness of the consultation of the Convention. Let's go to the main content, to the junk of this contract. The jumbo of this contract is what was in the original contract and does not, of course, change its modified version, and it is not the concession - that is the jum in Ellinikos Chrysos, a subsidiary of ELDORADO GOLD, mining rights in the richest mining field of Halkidiki, an area that has important gold reserves, but also some other metals, copper, silver, lead, zinc, for which the company does not care. What, then, did the Halkidiki Halkidiki give to buy the three hundred seventeen thousand - please - acres of this golden mining field in Halkidiki? He gave 11,000,000 euros, a really funny sum, in relation to the huge size of the total gold found in the subsoil of this region, which is reaching - based on scientific estimates - the sixty tons of gold. Consequently, with this new contract, as much as the original one, the crime of handing over a critical and non-renewable mineral resource to the business groups is continuing. What does that mean? It means that these stocks of north-eastern Halkidiki in gold, which are granted by the urban state to a business group, once they are extracted, are not replaced, are lost forever and thus the possibility of future philosophical exploitation is finally lost. And that's not all about gold. It also applies to oil. It also applies to every mineral resource of great value in our country. It also applies to "LARCO", which after you have snatched it, after you have all deceived it, you are now about to give it a beer rather than a predator. Otherwise, this amended contract is nothing but a ratification of the company's renewed business plan. Thus, under the new contract, the company under the first article is, on the one hand, exempted from the cost-effective sections of the initial investment project, such as the metallurgy plant, which is referred to the Greek bells, by the known method of referral of the committee - in this case, six - and, on the other hand, in the context of Article 11 on the settlement of disputes, the company actually ensures immunity for its responsibilities and for its old and new responsibilities. It is characteristic as well as challenging that article of the contract, according to which any fact of public responsibility automatically triggers public compensation clauses of the company. A similar article about the company's responsibilities towards the public sector of course does not exist. This is therefore a leody and robbery contract in favour of the company, not only because it comes as a golden pirate, but also for further reasons: Because the whole region of north-east Halkidiki is essentially committed to the company's mining activities for the next 50 years. Because in this area the "ELELANDS FRAMEWORKS" by the contract ensures its absolute priority over any other economic activity. Why the Agialos, the beach, the port at the Army are granted for exclusive - please - use in the company. Because the company ensures absolute priority in the use of water and gains control over the entire water supply horizon of the region. Because the company ensures the right to unlimited use of all the building materials in the area. Of course, let us not forget the cherry in this cake of interests for the company. It is, in the context of the privatised state controls that all governments have in turn carried out for the so-called independent environmental auditor - it says - the company. So "independent" is to be paid by this company itself, the one that is supposed to be strictly and objectively controlled! It'd really be laughing if it wasn't dangerous. Because apart from a robbery, this contract is dangerous to the people of the region. Is it possible, Minister, on an active seismic breach, which has given an earthquake of 7,2 towers in 1932 in Ierissos, to operate by the landfill company of hazardous and toxic waste? Because that's what's going on in the red-haired dam. Do you realize what can happen from such an earthquake or even a little less? In the last committee, however, the seismologist, Mr Papazachos, hit the bell hard and don't do what you don't hear. It is possible that there will be no flooding in Halkidiki, and that all governments will not include it in the potentially high-risk areas of flooding, when floods occur in the area, when the flood in Olympiad is recent with the Bashdakis stream there, which passes through Olympiad, after of course it passes through the company's mines by transporting - who knows! - a lot of dangerous and toxic materials? Is it possible for the people of the Army to live up to the anguish of cracks, see their homes cracking dangerously and the company and the state to be unscrupulous for years now? And yet all that is said by the government and the company that we have to swallow it. And you know why? Because in the world, the company, in the local municipality, pays some millions of fees, and the state pays a lot of mining fees. Let's see them a little: Do you know how much fees he has to pay to the state every year, if he pays them too, this company that exports gold ore and makes crazy profits abroad? The glossy - please! - EUR 2 million for all year round, and now go to EUR 2,200 000, with the additional mining fee of 10%! Even these, you know, are not sure, since according to the contract, it is the company that will testify to the value of the exported ore and this is for the public to accept it without objection. Yannis is buying, he's drinking. As for the multi-advertised recompense plays in the area for some fields and playgrounds, what do we say? It does the same to every business group that burdens the environment and wants to create a philosophical profile so that it does not encounter reactions from either employees or from residents. However, whatever sponsorships you give the municipality, whatever you're supposed to be doing, these are nothing more than little crumbs in the face of its profitability. For the work that the company is now giving, for which they are presenting the Greek FRYSOS, about as a worker's benefactor or almost a charitable institution for the region, let us ask ourselves: why, why did this company come to invest in north-east Halkidiki? Did he come to give a job for the workers and benefits in the local society, or did he come to make profits? The answer is self-evident. Only - you know - those gains that this company makes not only, but every capitalist company is coming out of the exploitation of workers and employees, of the unpaid value of their work. So, in order to get to know each other and to say things as they are, in their name, the "ELLENIC FRUYS" does not give a job, receive work from the workers, and indeed, hard work, extremely hard, within walls, in factories, a job - definition of heavy, unhealthy and dangerous work. And you know, about half of these company workers are contract workers, yes, this new fruit of the work jungle that you brought together New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, those that are the hardest part of the workers, with intensification, with employment according to the needs of the project, with low wages, do you know what height? To the limits of the minimum wage, EUR 600. We are not talking about collective agreements, these are unknown concepts and words. This is your notorious European work regularity. So these contractors a week ago made a three-hour job stop, demanding measures to secure their jobs. Here's what they say in an announcement of their struggle. One day before you bring the contract to the House, it is good to hear it here in the House and the voice of the workers. They say: "Every day we work in unhealthy working conditions with minimal ventilation. That's enough! Every day our life is rocked in these circumstances and we are already listening to the company's leaders struggling "the subterranean sign is taken, but", as if because we work in the basement and take the self-evident, we have to sacrifice our lives in this way". Just five days ago, a large part of the ceiling fell, ten minutes before the detached was our colleague down there. Fortunately, colleagues are all well. By the way, we didn't mourn victims. We need to react before it's too late. It's enough to play with our lives crown - letters. We've been living a middle-aged job in 2021. We demand our working rights to enter and come out alive and healthy from the stadium. Now don't tell us here about state control, it's almost nonexistent, as all the governments have so far put their stone in depreciation and understood mining inspection." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But even these jobs no one can guarantee them in the system we live in. The older miners and miners know something about this from the previous "Bodosakis", when the mines were operating and when the factories closed down according to their interests, often sending unemployment densely. The same, and now, the contract does not have the company's slightest commitment not only to increase jobs - rather than to vague reference - but not even to maintaining existing jobs. Nor should we forget all three fatal accidents in the last few years in the Hellenic FRYS. So here, in front of us, this is the most famous capitalist development, a living person in the north-east of Halkidiki reveals the threatening nature of this development for capitalist gains, as it proves to be abundant and the anti-government nature of this development and the inequality of development of all sectors of the economy and the widespread negative effect on the local economy, the environment and health of residents and workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a small tolerance, Mr President, or even a piece of my dentistry. And there is a manifestation that the benefits of capitalist growth are transformed into profits only for their groups and shareholders and to a negative impact on employees. For this development, you are struggling all urban parties in your way. That is why SYRIZA is invading the European framework of competition, that is to say, the capitalist, because this convention favours only one company in the industry and not all. With this you certainly win with your sword a place on the custodians of capitalism! It doesn't bother him at all - but at all! - SYRIZA's misappropriation of a precious mineral from the shareholders of a company, provided that the price is profitable. It is not a question of principle, as it is for us, but it is a matter of honor for SYRIZA. It disturbs him, however, and goes up to the bars because the metallurgy plant that was never meant to be abandoned by the company and to hide its own responsibilities for offshore exports, that is to say, the brick made on its own government of mining condensates in tax havens. As far as colonialism is concerned, there is a provision in the Constitution in Article 107 - you know - which ensures preferential tax treatment - almost immunity - in so-called foreign capitals and as such accounted for the capitals of the Hellenic FYROM, according to a law in force since 1953. 'Legal tax evasion' has been named by SYRIZA's rapporteur and the designation is correct. Well, in the recent revision of the Constitution, the JRC has proposed that you remove this provocative provision on legal tax evasion and that could be done. But you denied it, all of you, and you didn't make "kitch" and you're coming here now and you're tearing your garments for colonial rule. The "work or environment" dilemma is not only misleading, it is also fake. The real dilemma, the real question is another: What is that development that will benefit the people and satisfy their needs? In other words, development for whom? For the profits of capitalists or for the people's needs? Capitalist growth lives in Halkidiki and across the country. But there's another way. There is the path of polemic development, in which, when a mining activity is developed, the placement of each unit will be assessed in full, ensuring the minimisation of impacts, what and when and how it will be extracted, how the workforce and the scientific potential will be distributed. Balanced growth, harmonious development and regions and sectors of the economy will be ensured. Of course, there will be all the necessary, necessary measures for health and safety, for work and for the protection of the environment. This radically different form of development is based on labour power, of course, which will socialise the mineral wealth, the land, the whole pooled means of production, and will transform ownership of shareholders, groups into ownership of the whole society, making use of them and developing them within the framework of a central scientific design of the economy by means of labour social control for social needs rather than profit. Outside this framework there can be no polite mining policy, cannot the working class enjoy the wealth it produces. Outside this framework, the mining worker will always be exposed to the risk of unemployment and the local residents will be exposed to mining and processing methods that cause problems in the environment and risks to their health. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Only in this context can targets which in capitalism are contradictory to each other can be covered. We are talking about permanent and stable work. We are talking about incomes guaranteeing a higher level of life. We are talking about reducing working time, yes, the reduction in working time in six hours for heavy and unhealthy occupations, health and safety measures, we are talking about environmental protection. From these fixed positions and with a look at tomorrow, the JRC is placed on the question of the investment of the "ELLENIC CRYSOS" and, from this moment, it opposes and votes against this new contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Delis. And now I invite the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos. Until Mr Viliardos comes to Stepma, after this has been sanitaryly cleaned, I would like to inform the House that the SYRIZA Members - for the economy of time, I will not read the names - have tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the articles and on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. This roll-call vote will take place as soon as the debate on the bill is concluded. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first committee we stressed that the Government has, by way of summary procedures, tabled a convention on a scandalous issue, on the 'ELDORADO GOLD' which has been a long way from tax evasion through, in particular, our honorable partner, the Netherlands, which is considered the 'king-up' of legal tax evasion in Europe. The best proof, however, of the most colonial contract we have ever seen, and it has literally caused us disgusting, since it documentes the unbelievable slavery of the government, is that it is active through a one-faced company. If that is possible! Continuing, we will not refer to the environmental disaster that Mrs Bakoyannis described in the clearest way and in black and clearest colors in 2012 as President of her party, the Democratic Alliance, with significant impact on tourism, the health of the local population and agriculture. There are, moreover, too many other reports of specialized scientists on the subject, and it is certainly impressive that the so-called green government and the so-called green European Union that stop the lignite plants of PPC, obviously to support the main German energy production sources, does not seem to be disturbed by substantiating their incredible hypocrisy. We will only emphasise that the public has never had a significant financial benefit from the operation of ELDORADO GOLD, due to, among other things, its tax avoidance, pointing out the following: The Dutch 'NGO SOMO' in a study entitled 'How the Canadian company 'ELDORADO GOLD' destroys the environment and local means of biopolitics in Greece, while not paying taxes using Dutch companies - windows', for example, says that funding through the Netherlands, where it has identified nine subsidiaries with capital of EUR 1,85 billion related to Greece's activities, nine subsidiaries of offshore with funds only EUR 1,85 billion relating to the activities in Greece, has saved for ELDORADO GOLD and has cost Greece more than EUR 700,000 in two years and EUR 1,7 million in a company income tax in five years. For all of this, we have tabled the corresponding documentation in the Minutes. Indicatively now on the basis of the financial statements of 2019 and 2018 that we also submitted in the Minutes, the “ELELANDNIKIKI FRYS” presents losses of 70 million and 38 million respectively, while on December 31st 2019 it had a negative net position of 37.6 million euros. And she appears to sell under-cost prices, so the public will not collect income taxes, while regarding the indirect benefits, the number of her staff on December 31, 2019 was only a thousand and twenty-eight and eighty-seven on December 31, 2018. As far as the problems of the contract are concerned, it is generally the following: ELDORADO GOLD has been exploiting the mines of Cassandra for almost two decades, but it does not produce gold here. The product of the company is concentrates that are transported abroad to produce the precious metal there. The amendment of its contract was requested in the summer of 2019 by the company ‘ELDORADO GOLD’, a subsidiary of the company ‘ELDORADO GOLD’ invoked a failure to implement the metallurgy plant, the core of the previous and current contract, which would produce purely valuable metals and significant tax revenues for the State. The alleged weakness is that the metallurgy-processing method that had been environmentally approved in 2011 proved inappropriate, while the company was found to be in breach of the contract. Of course, I 'invade' means 'defraud' and nothing else. The new contract and the new investment plan accompanying it were submitted to the Ministry of the Environment and Development in November 2019, while all of them were kept secretly. The State originally asked the company for the complete implementation of the investment in question and for the verticalisation with the creation of the metallurgy. The S.H.E.'s decision. with the number of 223, 2020, issued in February 2020 in the middle of the negotiation, confirming the violation of the contract by the company, that is, fraud, which has strengthened the government, in other words giving it the upper hand, as we commonly call it. From a position of power the Government could either claim and achieve the metallurgy and the maximum public benefit, or terminate the contract and claim compensation. However, the government did not do anything of the two, it concealed the decision that was justified by the public authority and succumbing to all the demands of the company, that is to say it was due by Greece to the company and not the other way round. With the new contract now, the company achieves its two main objectives: first, it is exempted from the obligation to manufacture gold metallurgy and second, it takes legal safeguards for the uninterrupted development of the alleged investment, hand-wrapping the public with compensation clauses when the company itself considers that its interests are being harmed. From the new investment project, not only are the metallurgy plant and the sulfuric acid plant, but also various projects approved in 2011 and the company does not want to build, such as the new enrichment plant in Mandem Lakko, the connectors at Mandem Lakkos - Olympiada, and instead of a new industrial port in the Army, a simple upgrade of the old quay is foreseen. Anyone who knows the port understands what that means. There is not at all the Mandem Lakku mining centre where all the polluting industrial activities were supposed to be assembled. The two old enrichment factories in Olympiad and the Army will continue to operate until the mining stock is paid off by extracting condensates, as is the case until today. We're not talking about gold, but condensations. Evidently all of this proves to be a major scandal, while the government and the company, trying to convince that the damage to the public as a result of the failure to carry out the metallurgy is offset by other revenues, report a number of amounts that are not derived from anywhere and have absolutely nothing to do with the reality. In particular, since the new investment project is less than the previous three factories, a new industrial port and a connector along eight and a half kilometres, the claim that the total investment and jobs will be more than doubled is contrary to common sense, believing that the company considers us to be completely foolish. By exporting condensates, i.e. low-value intermediate products, the company will never make profits, while paying, if it pays, minimum taxes. It is not at all substantiated how the EUR 2 billion will be generated for the public without metallurgy and given that ELDORADO has been set up for years - just as it sounds - a tax evasion mechanism through the Netherlands, as we have already said. As far as the mining charges currently in the range of EUR 2 million per year are concerned, and will increase by 10%, if the company states it, this is an entirely minor amount compared to the tax revenues it avoids if ELDORADO pays. In the second committee we mentioned that at the end of 2019 the Ministry of the Environment had commissioned the Specialist Company "GRAND THORNTON" the economic evaluation of the new investment project "ELLENIKIKI FRYS", as well as its comparative assessment with the previous on some quantitative and qualitative parameters and measurable indicators of contribution to the national and local economy. This work was either never delivered or buried, apparently because its findings were not favourable to the company's proposal. Our question here, however, which has remained, like many others, unanswered, was who ultimately assessed the new project and why they were made without question accepting the imaginable numbers of the "ELLENIC FRUYS". We also asked whether there would be funding from the European Union's Recovery Fund, from our own money, as was the case with the 'FRAPORT'. We all know that. Furthermore, the strong controversy with SYRIZA government in 2018 around licenses was in the written strategy of the "Company of Communications V+O Communication" interests Thomas Varvitsiotis, with a view to attracting public attention. There were threats to leaving Greece and dynamic demonstrations by its employees, so that they could get the relevant licenses blackmailing and continue to work. It should be noted here that the shareholder of the owner of HOLDING is the QATAR HOLDING company, which acquired 9.9% of the EUROPAN GOLDFIELDS as against 750 million in 2013. Recapitalising, within the contract, scandalous arrangements such as the cancellation of the metallurgy obligation, the indirect reintroduction of the possibility of an extended use of cyanide to separate the finished cyanide product, the withdrawal of the State from its responsibility for environmental audits and the definition of a private environmental verifier by the company. Where did the government really hear the controlled himself control over the government for environmental reasons? Next scandalous arrangements are the introduction of a clause from the State for forging gains to the company in case a next government fails to meet certain requirements, the resignation of the public by Greek law and the acceptance of an international court, the composition of which will be chosen by the Hellenic FRYSOS, as well as the cancellation of the recruitment obligation to a certain percentage by the local community. The worst scandal, however, is found in Article 19, which enacts in breach of any concept of public interest the possibility of official tax evasion for the company. With this article, the State accepts to transfer as tax-free dividends abroad all the company's profits from the mining of metals in Halkidiki. However, a public contract may be amended or replaced by another only if it has been established that the public interest is ensured. In other words, the new contract must produce at least the same financial result as the one it replaces. Otherwise, we have infidelity against the public, which we all know very well is a criminal offence and a felony. Finally, after analyzing a number of articles that were more than colonial - as we have anticipated - in the third committee, we reiterated that the contract is so one-sided in favour of the company and to such an extent that it is literally disgusting to anyone who reads it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we have necessarily returned to our basic question: why does the government sign it? Who's forcing her or blackmailing her? Did Canada, whose government representative in the past support the company by making statements to the "REUTERS" or the troika? Why is he making the same mistake as Mr. Tsipras in 2015, where after the pressures exerted on him at the well-known meeting of the seventeen hours he submissively threw his head, instead of being publicly addressed to the Greeks and told them about the blackmails, leaving them to decide? With his attitude he literally murdered the Greeks' last hope, while he could save Greece if he behaved with the responsibility that each Prime Minister must have. Of course, the Government did not answer any of our questions, while the Minister, in the last committee, disappeared, leaving the State Secretary in his place who said absolutely nothing. Obviously, the convention is disgusting to the ministers of the government. They just seem to be under pressure for reasons they know themselves. And we are curious whether the New Democracy Members or the Halkidiki change movement will support the draft law. We hope they don't. So we have asked that the government immediately withdraw the bill and not sign the contract, protecting the interests of Greek citizens as owed. Finally, what struck us was the attitude of the Change Movement and its commitment to a bill that no human on the planet would vote on, except for the investor who could not be able to sign such a convention, even in Africa since his colonial structure reminds us of many centuries ago. Obviously, this is due to the government's support of the Change Movement, which is an old accomplice to the crimes of the Memorandums and the PSI, recalling that Mr Venizelos, to justify his - within introductorys, of course - "sentence", had claimed that 180 billion euros were deleted instead of 51.3 billion euros in reality, of which a large part was ours from Greek insurance funds, Greek banks and private bond holders. Then Mr Venizelos said, to justify this, that in 2020 our public debt would fall to 120% of GDP. However, it was launched at 210%, despite our country's looting in the intervening period, with private debt - which is very important and should never forget - to exceed EUR 240 billion. For all these reasons, we believe that the Greek Solution is a one-way road for Greek free market fans within a democratic culture, for all those who want our country to recover its economic independence, without which there is no national sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. The floor is now given by the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Congressmen and MPs, Minister, I shall begin with a report from the twenty-seven-year-old Jason. Mera25 has actively expressed its support for the family. We also express it publicly from the Step of Parliament. The MPs of Mera25 have asked the President of Parliament for self-evidently, the traffic incident report, the security service members who were present, the wheelman, the driver's data and security footage. The self-evident. Accidents happen. This is where we have cover-up issues. Also, it is shocking to complaints of long-term torture in the GATS to invaders released, as they were insulted by mistake, not that it makes a difference. They match this very much with what we are discussing, the dismantling of the rule of law. I would remind you that what distinguishes democracies from hybrid regimes is the rule of law. Mr Erdogan is elected by popular vote. The difference from European democracy is the maintenance and functioning of a rule of law for all. But you are turning us into this convention that you are bringing to a colonial Parliament. You're making us discuss a colonial contract. The word 'colonial' is not euphemism. This is a colonial convention of the type of the previous centuries. The text constitutes a breach of duty for everyone who negotiated it and signed it. It's probably one of the reasons Mr. Hatzidakis has made sure he leaves this post. You acted as the company's representatives, not the public. It is not a political issue that we are discussing. It's not about being someone for or against mining. It is a criminal matter that we are asking for. It's a breach of duty. You signed a contract that today does not correspond to such degrading conditions in any African country, any other country on the planet, anywhere on the planet. The state will live and breathe for this company. Without spins, because a lot is heard in this Chamber: Mera25 will not implement this convention. Merra25 will abolish this convention at the first opportunity to be given to it by the citizens. We will not expect constitutionality to be judged in the courts, as SYRIZA says, to see what we are going to do. And then what would you do if a constitution were judged? Will you apply it reluctantly, as you did with the previous one? It does not bother us that the disaster will be done by a private company and not by a public company, such as the position of other parties. We are the only party in this House that, as in Skouria, we believe in the mining of hydrocarbons that no one should touch these places. To stay the gold, to stay the hydrocarbons where they are. In the century of the ecological crisis and the consequent climate change, we are not talking about further destruction of nature. We should not even think about having this debate. What are you doing in this place? Take a primitive forest, with trees over six hundred years old, rare foliage trees, a foliage forest, a key ally against the climate crisis, and destroy it by avoiding it, but also by drying up a whole mountain, Kakavo, with drillings that will exhaust the waterfront up to the surface of the sea, apparently bringing refreshment. It'll be a dry mountain. And that's not all. You give this company the priority vis-à-vis any other activity in most of the Municipality of Aristotle, most of the north-east of Halkidiki. For almost a hundred years people will expect the company to decide what will happen. You create a feud where the company will do whatever it wants, if it wants, as you allow it to assimilate activities according to the beam and develop also where it wants. You give her an irreplaceable, a terrible point of nature that does not belong to us. We have his responsibility. We're his caretakers. It's like neglecting with your decision a child we have custody, only this child in the case of this place does nourish us already, gives us oxygen. In order to achieve all this, you have used the workers who have been strategically recruited. One - one of the families will be hired, the ones with the greatest displacement in the local society to split up local society, to fight brother with brother. And now after you have had people fight if water and land are more important than employment and society to split up to go through this catastrophe, now throw these workers away like horny lemon worms. They no longer need you because this government signs a contract that after the signing and ratification of Parliament will never have to deal with this company again with anything that has to do with Greece and the public. He'll be in an asylum area, in an abatto for the public. Avato will be the northeast of Halkidiki. That's what you sign up for, so you're no longer served by the workers, you don't need them. You can show your real face and that's why you're interrupting the tracking clause for workers and suppliers. Whoever gives cheaper services, where a cheaper wage is found, he will go wherever he is. Of course, in order to support this convention, you are still talking about jobs, which you in Ptolemais, with the justification of the environment, are still talking about depriving us of. You are, however, leading to a social gap, without a transition plan, as we ask you, without a plan that provides for the huge restoration of the region, which would allow for the next decade in practice to continue to work until it becomes a serious one - which you have made - a transition plan which will not create a social gap there. After you do all this in Ptolemais, Kozani, western Macedonia, you suddenly have no problem with the jobs you are dismantling and moving on to this huge environmental disaster. You have no arguments. Always just pretexts. Let me remind you, Minister, that what you said in the parliamentary control a week ago, namely that investment in the Heritage in Corfu - yes, you admit - will not promote tourist development in Corfu's well-known tourist destination, but there are also people in your constituency, the Trikala, who need jobs and for them are important. But we're going to health. Here we have the IGM to tell us that the mineral parts collected from the accident at the Cross and examined by these golden fields have detailed quartz and elements similar to asbestos, carcinogens, i.e...... Now what does the environmental impact study say to us? That whatever elements are there over dust will be ejected into the atmosphere in more than two thousand cubic miles an hour, spreading the danger to public health everywhere where the air blows. The company now says that its environmental impact study describing these figures might make a mistake, be smaller than the sizes. It will, I imagine, be one of the many mistakes, such as the mistake of the Kokkinolakka, where we have the largest disposal area for hazardous waste of the mining process on a seismic breach. Mr. Papazachos told us it's not happening anywhere else in the world. Mr Papazachos told us that the environmental impact study underestimates seismicity, although the company knows it. Mr Papazachos told us that there is, in fact, no measure to prevent damage to any earthquake. A very small protective layer in the depth of this space, this dam. From health, however, we are going to public revenues, which was the excuse of some previous governments. I applied through parliamentary control for public revenue. From mining to the Olympiad of the same company, 2013-2017, 1.022.634 euros, that is, 200,000 euros a year. And let's see what's coming, what makes this contract unprecedented for global data in the public interest trespassing about $1,300 is ounce today. Of these, based on the contract, the public will get $28.5 the ounce. The profit will be $300, $28.5 an ounce for the public. We should not discuss this mining contract either with public revenue or without, as it is, it is. In the age of the ecological crisis we should not be discussing such a disaster. Let's go see the bill for the public, 'cause it's not that he won't have any revenue. The public will pay this investment over and over and over and as the process goes, as the health crisis goes, see if you will soon pay compensation to the "ELLENIC CHRYS". The State, on the basis of the contract, will compensate the company in any case. When it's public's fault, it'll compensate the public. When it's the company's fault, it'll compensate the public company. Tell us, Minister, a case where the public will be compensated, in other words the company will be compensated for something that is wrong. Tell us one case. It is not just compensation and all the clauses you place for any licence to be delayed by the State. I read the contract: "The company will draw and use water and watercourses, wells, caves, will place water pipelines, build water pipelines, lakes and dams, divert and use as much water as it needs for the project, make logging and use wood and quarry stone, sand and other building materials for use, construction and operation of the project free of charge". I continue below: "The company provides the company with full and uninterrupted access to the mining area, as well as the rights to acquire, import, construction, operation of a factory, equipment, railways, roads, airport bridges, ports, projectors, guilders, pipelines, power generators and transmission infrastructures, buildings or structures". ‘The State also ensures that the company has access to all public utility infrastructure and public infrastructure, reliable electricity supply, water supply, sewage and telecommunications services’. Clauses on all of which are made: ‘The company also has the right to use the contract as a guarantee instrument for any financing and the State accepts that it will cooperate with the company’s existing or future lenders and will contribute as a third party to the relevant contracts for the provision of collateral for the financing and guarantee of the company’. Of course, the company's profits will be foreign capital, while the State has an obligation to give the company the right to transfer, sell, hold any foreign exchange. The state should have a foreign currency for whenever the company wants to transfer its profits abroad to other accounts, to a foreign national currency other than the Greek territory, as the contract tells us. In fact, I am in a position to explain how this irrational work is doing it also detrimental financially. We should not be talking about the destruction of what you are going to do regardless of terms. However, you do not have any loyal and sacred, even your own books, the Pissaridis report you are in violation of. The Pissaridis report talks about subsidizing environmental auditors and says that checks on compliance with environmental legislation are necessary, both for the protection of the environment and for the equality of citizens and businesses, and that is why they must be carried out by a single body, and it proposes that environmental inspection be upgraded to an independent authority and invokes the example of the United Kingdom. What are you guys doing? Even your own book is invading. You establish a private environmental auditor who will choose and pay him. For any environmental complaint the company will decide through the private person, who will pay if there is an environmental crime or not. So long you have told us that you have destroyed this place for Greece to produce gold. Now you will destroy this unique environment, public health, the local economy, the country's biggest fishing field, the country's biggest apiculture field, amending an important tourist site and destination to produce other countries of gold, to create a country, its own unbaby for the public, an uncontrolled economic zone, with the citizens and the state ilodies. It is clear that we are voting against. We will never implement this convention and we will abolish it at the first opportunity that the citizens will give us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u83	The floor will now be taken by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, and the proceedings will immediately then become the process of objections to anti-constitutionality tabled by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and from...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u84	This procedure needs to be preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u85	Here you go, Mr. Skourlet, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, what we did before was by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure should have preceded the debate on constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u87	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u88	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u89	Let go, Mr. Velopoulos, you don't have the floor yet. However, Mr President, can you hear me or speak with your neighbors?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u90	Wait a minute, Mr. Velopoulou, because no gaps should be left. Mr. Skourletis, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u91	No, Mr President, I have not finished since you haven't even heard of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u92	I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u93	No, you haven't heard me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u94	Well, good to hear you again, to know better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u95	But, Mr President, it had been announced by the President-in-Office before that the issue of constitutionality will be discussed shortly. Consequently, this debate must be concluded and then Mr Velopoulos, as the party leader, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u96	The Bureau always has the flexibility to hear some things and then there will be some derogation. I won't tell her now, I'll tell her when she comes. Because he appreciates a few reasons. I have the impression that this is not the case, but it is a regular procedure. I'll tell you about the previous one, because you said that unconstitutionalism should have taken precedence. The debate is uniform on the principle, on the articles and on the whole, and the procedure under the Rules of Procedure says that, in order to make any objection of unconstitutionality, it should be done before the vote. This is for everyone's knowledge, because the House is also a school. I have even been a professor and have to teach, at least when I know something. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much. At least we as Greek Solution, as many times as we needed colleagues from all parties to take our place, gave it to us, and Mr Grigoriadis witness, who recently asked and spoke. On the other hand, I know that the presidents of the parties, Mr. Colleague, are never sitting while they are up here, Mr. Skourletis, waiting for the parliamentary representative of a party to speak. With respect to the face, Mr. Colleague, the president of a party...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u98	What parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u99	Don't interrupt, Mr. Skourlet. There's no reason, between us we find everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u100	Listen, I respect you all. I'm trying to be self-defense and to the extent of political logic. He's also Mr. Voutsi...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u101	You don't know them well! You weren't in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u102	Believe me, I am well-informed, Mr Skourletis, and I fully respect Parliament's rules and the Rules of Procedure of the House, and many times too many colleagues from your party have asked to get past me and I have accepted it. Because we must also be reasonable, but above all and kind. You know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, if Philip listened to you, whom you used to love in the past - and you went to Prespecies with thoughts, Mr Ploris, especially you and the rest of the group - would now have taken you with the stones. Because these mines along with the mines of Kassandra made him rich, took out the twelve-drachm philosophical, its own coin, and chased after the Persians to India. So today, you come here, by circumventing every sense of logic - Mr. Viliardos and the other parties have analysed them very well - you can convince us that a single-person company - I don't know how many you have companies - can manage the "ELELENIKI CORYS" and represent the "ELLENIKIKI CRYSOS". It's a company that avoids many times. We know he's avoiding tax. The company hasn't paid tax for the last three years, you know? Not a single euro. It's a deficit. And how is it a deficit? Let me explain. Like the "LIDL" you love, by Germany. Because they sell more expensively to their subsidiary, thus having deficits. Don't you know that? What investment without tax? This company, which is a company, will not give a single euro tax. I don't care about "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK", they all do. In the Netherlands, she has nine subsidiaries. Why does he have them? It's their laundry. They no longer launder money, legalize it or in any case they are not taxed here. How much Greek sensitivity and logic can a man have and vote for such a bill? Leave history, Macedonia and development. What logic can a Member of Parliament have, who votes for such a bill? You tell me to understand. I won't say the rest. And I'll make a comparison. You remind me of Ancient Athens, where slaves in Lavrio worked, Mr. Pilari, to work for a piece of bread and an olive, they died of hunger, only because the Athenians were unemployed or because they had to work there. Our mines used them, you know who? The rich of Athens and Athens were taxed. Here we take advantage of the "ELLENIC CHRYS" and give the workers a piece of bread there because they need a job. The area has high unemployment rates, not the Halkidiki of the first or second leg, which has high tourism, and above all the first leg. The third leg has problems. And what are you doing? You throw them a piece of bread. He's here as a colleague from Halkidiki, he'll tell you. And you actually make them slaves, slaves for 1,100, 1,200 euros. Well, let us talk a little seriously in this Parliament. Will you tell me what we expect from a government, which even in the Messochori, ladies and gentlemen, did nothing? There was an earthquake in Larissa, remember? Mr. Petsas went, your ministers promised 600 euros per family. The other's lost his house and he's going to get 600 euros! And now listen to what you're doing. Demands, Mr. Screka. You're Minister in Thessaly. Are you willing to give it to me? Does the other man have to have a damaged house to get 600 euros? I have now spoken to President Mesochori and the President himself denounced it to me. You should call him, Mr. Screka, and tell him all the families to go 600 euros to all. How many families are there, baby? EUR 500 per head give every Hassan. Can't you give a family 600 euros? All right, guys, let's get a little serious in here. They're not doing this, they're gross injustices. With stashes, if the house is down, if the house is in trouble, you'll get 600 euros. How many are there, a thousand families? Hey, cut off the advertising you give for "We stay home" and get vaccines and give them there. That's right, Mr. Minister, Mr. Screka, that's right. Is that so hard? I don't understand. And because I'm a congressman of Larisis. The inhabitants are indignant, they are left on tents even now. Even now that we're talking, Mr. Screka, 10 days later, women, eighty-eight-year-olds, are left on a ten-day stand. Uh, how will the state, all of us - I don't care what party you are - stay Greek in a tent with minus five and minus four? It's wrong, it's negligence, it's flawed. I don't think you're doing this on purpose, to God, away from me. It's an oblivion, a negligence, but you need to correct it. That's what I'm telling you. And because we're really a party of reason, I don't want to make populism, I don't want to specify. I've never even made personal blows in this House and I'll never, ever, ever. Because more politics and more personal blows. And I am sad when other colleagues from other parties do so. In other words, a misfortune that a Member of Parliament can do must be hit and crushed together. Why? To satisfy the humble partisan instincts of a barbaric political system? I strongly disagree. But I'll tell you now why I feel right. We were right, Minister, we were right. Right one. We've been alert to vaccines all along. You see, there's now an issue with vaccines. There's a matter. The rush, the study with which all of you want to be vaccinated, in all the parties, creates problems and is the justice of ours. In many countries, Germany, France, Italy, they start looking for more. Why do you swallow it undetectable? I apologise for the expression. Why do you accept what the experts tell you? Experts to make them God, of course. And I'll prove to you soon because they're not experts. Jurisdiction second: Sputnik. In October this year Velopoulos told you about Sputnik in his speech. France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Russia agree to produce the vaccine. If we did so September - October, today we could produce the vaccine and also export it. And other countries will win again and we just buy it. Third question: I was telling you that Catholic lockdown is wrong. The universal closure is a crime in the economy. We told you. Now the Prime Minister, after a year, discovered along with some of his people that there is a problem in the market. Now? Now the problem is on the market, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Screkas knows about business. Now the problem begins. Because you're wrong again. You base the economy on double tourism and consumption. But the Greek doesn't have money to eat anymore if the market opens. You burned him a year. The gear burned, the mechanism that mobilizes the economy. Burn him murderously with the lockdowns on the continuously. We are the only country, you know, that implemented the strictest measures in relation to universal closures, lockdowns. I don't know if Venezuela did this or Colombia. We did it. Of course, in relation to our debt, we are Colombia. That's where we're going to Colombia, ladies and gentlemen. I'll see you in a minute. The Court ruled as follows: Mr. Epakyl's coming out now, otherwise sympathetic to scientists. It's a plastic surgeon if I'm not mistaken. I don't know if there's any doctor here, his colleague. I think his specialty is a plastic surgeon, not an infectious. Good doctor. So it comes out and says: 'On the outside we are safe when we keep distances'. We told you from the outset: 'Don't put masks on the outside.' We told you. Now your experts are out and you're cleared. And this is where the poor man enters and says: "Which Greek politicians did it like the German MPs who colluded from the masks?" Well, I'm kind and I won't believe it, what can I tell him about the citizen who asked me yesterday? He tells me: "Re Velopoulos, in Germany five - six MPs take them off the masks. We were told at the outset that it was dangerous and that they were forced to do so." In Europe that I know, Mr President, in Germany, France, Italy and Austria, there was no mask. In squares, there was no mask. The fines you imposed, listen, it's unfair. The fines you imposed are unfair. When the committee member comes out and says that there is no need for masks on the outside, you must return all the fines you have imposed on the Greek people, if you are justified as government and if you are honest at least in your party implementation of what you say and what you do. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Five-five rule. Mr Gogos: 'Opening of the port market at the end of March'. We told you from the beginning: Do not close the retail trade, you will not have any revenue as government. Because I don't care if it's the New Democracy, SYRIZA or the Greek Solution, it's the government of Greece. So I was telling you that when you cut the umbilical cord from the connection between the economy and consumption, you create additional debts. Now Mr. Gogos comes out and says he needs to open up. Jurisdiction sixth. Wrongly, banning the movement from county to county. It is a huge mistake, ladies and gentlemen, and I will prove it to you with two arguments. There are people who have a cottage in Halkidiki, Luca, Lavrio, Lavrio, I don't know where, from here and there, and for months they can't leave and go to their cottage to see their fireplace, see their cottage, see if anyone's gone to steal them, the water, the power cut them off. You banned them, too. You have reached the point of prohibiting the Greeks from going from a quarter to a quarter. And now you'll tell us whether we should move from the living room to the kitchen! Extremities are these and you're not being persuasive. I don't know who's telling the Prime Minister. I had informed the Prime Minister personally that his advisers were telling him wrong. And sometimes the leader in the decisions he makes listening to the consultants is wrong himself. But when you choose your advisers, you need to know who you choose. It's a two-way relationship. For me, the mask, ladies and gentlemen, is not a mask first. If you look into the etymology of the word, it's not a mask. The mask goes in the eye. What you're wearing and we're all wearing is a murmur. Clear things. The mask is a mask. Look for the word. And because my good colleague is laughing at the bottom of the French'masque','masque','mask'. It's coming out of the "shit". You made all the Greek pussies, based on the etymology of the word. Or from the Catalan "mascar" which means black. They were sniffing the eyes. Or from the Spanish word'masqua a la cara' which means an additional person. In short, the mask is for the eyes. What we're wearing is a muzzle. Also, the cases why do your experts call them cases? The cases, gentlemen, they're not cases, they're incidents. You've changed concepts and terms. You've changed the same medical science. It means it's the one that's intubated. The other is an incident, a virion. It's not a serious incident. Heavy is the problem. Lightweight is called an incident. Understood. Substantial. What does it mean? And do etymology of the word. ‘Each case of an infectious disease’. Asymptomatics are not cases. Dictionary of the Greek language. These are incidents. But to terrorize the world, Mr President, to scare the world, five thousand cases, and they can normally be four thousand incidents and a hundred cases. But if they say a hundred cases, the world won't be afraid. They wanted to terrorize Greeks for a year to think they were ruling. They had the feeling that they ruled a country, a gala, filled with dead, with plague, with pestilence, and took it and managed by the captain wherever he wanted. But blindly he went. Wrong. It comes out today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and the Prime Minister does the following crime. He's talking about a vaccination certificate. And see how smart Turkey is. The next moment Mr Mitsotakis says that, Erdogan goes out and says "we don't want a certificate". Why don't you say rapid? I'd like to accept that, too. You think about it? Why would I make a vaccination certificate? So my fellow German friend can't come to Greece unless he's vaccinated? Is that what you want to do? Mandatory blockade from the back door? I don't get it. Of course, we will lose all tourism, all tourists will go to Turkey, and then you will say that the tourists' revenues from the industry are very little. Wrong second. Prepare to open tourism - listen to the crime - without new ones. If now that we're ten million we have, I say, two thousand IF that the government says, Mr. Screka, I don't know how many they are. It's like joker, a thousand two hundred, a thousand four hundred, a thousand five hundred, two thousand, two thousand two hundred, depending on it, is an auction. Every minister says his own. So if, at ten million, you want to have two thousand ICs, if five more come, math is, we're gonna need another thousand. I'll say. Two more thousand. How do you open up to tourism without planning to improve the primary health system? You tell me. Of course, the passport you're making is stupid. I read the Belgian iologist, who is pre-sealed for a Nobel Prize next year. ‘passports do not provide protection against deadly variations. The virus is spread by mutations.’ We're making a vaccine for an strain, and there's a mutation coming out. Fourthly, about tourism and pandemic, and here I will tell you in raw language. You want the Germans, the English, the French, the Italians, to be safe, you say. Every day hundreds pass by Evros. Every day hundreds, ladies and gentlemen, you are on the right side of the New Democracy. They enter illegal immigrants every day from Evros, from the islands. They go in every day. Ask there in Orestiad, you have friends in Alexandroupolis to tell you. They have a passport? They're coming in like this. So a passport, the one who gives his money, and the one who comes to get money, not a passport! Close the border. Close the border! Wrong fifth: They say - to see how racist it is - the passport, the certificate won't be valid if you get Chinese or Russian vaccines, the Sputnik. This is criminal and racist. So, does he have to get mRNA the other guy inside of him? He doesn't want mRNA, son. He wants to make a Sputnik vaccine, Chinese vaccine. So all the countries will accept the vaccines? Where is the Prime Minister to say: 'Children, we have a topic here? Do we need a passport? We do. All right, let's make a passport as a whole." I disagree with that, but that's as far as it goes. Wrong sixth: Smuggling specialists for vaccinations. Cologne Secretary-General: "They have been done..." - listen, ladies and gentlemen! - "... a million three hundred thousand vaccinations." We're getting comfy. A million three hundred thousand! Smuggling here, creative accounts, because a vaccinated person is vaccinated when he makes the two doses. When he makes a single dose, he's not vaccinated. But he says a million thousand were vaccinated. It's not like that. Four hundred sixty thousand Greeks were vaccinated in the double dose. The rest of them are alone. So how's a million three hundred thousand? Wrong seventh - and here's your criminal mistake - the churches. You had to have the face, the mask inside the church. Crime, real crime, because it is associated with the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit in the temple - I tell you a few simple things - casts doubt on the idea that the believer believes in the Holy Spirit, in the Divine Society and in all of this. But I come to the main, because this is your fault. The S.T.E. is coming out. France - now listen - and it tells the French Government that it wanted to impose a closure of churches, that it is forbidden to close the churches. You've closed it, ladies and gentlemen. The party of Constantine Karamanlis, the man who created Greece since 1974, the party of the country, the party of religion, of the family, as you used to say in the known parties when some of you told them about religion. And you're shutting it down. And now - I will tell you, in order to understand what crime is going on - they appealed to the Court of Human Rights and, apparently, they will be entitled. Greece will be condemned for the violent closure of the temples. And here I wonder why you have not done the same for the mosques in Thrace, which have been operating for a year, ladies and gentlemen? And well, people did. I did not understand why it should apply only to the churches in the Orthodox. That's what I didn't understand. And I never understood it. Wrong eighth: Prognosis Professor Sarigiannis. SKAI takes him out every day and every channel. A well-known professor. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, he made twenty-three predictions on the progress of COVID. Twenty-three! He only fell at five o'clock. I've got 'em here. I'll testify to them in the Minutes of the House. The expert of the Committee of New Democracy, Mr. Sarigiannis - good man, professor at the University, etc. - made twenty-three predictions for COVID and fell within five! Are we going with them to get Greece to overcome the pandemic? Are we serious? When he said twenty-three times he said "will do" - his predictions - were only made at five, he has a problem. Can't the Prime Minister see it? Wrong ninth: You paid millions of euros to the media to terrorize the world. And I'll tell you this here, because they're friends of theirs, they're talking in front of the two ex-boyfriends: This gentleman at "iefimerida" opened the first day before, on Monday, his ticket to Plaka, while we had a universal closure. Mr Raptis of 'iefimerida'. When I saw the photo, I was in shock. He opened the liquor, he put his little bite, he put his cheese pie on, he put his pretty squids on. Where are you New Democrat colleagues, Mr. Pleari, your friend Raptis. Hey, buddy. Rejoice him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u103	He's my friend, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u104	Rejoice him, Mr. Adonai, to him, Minister, when you impose a fine of EUR 300 on each Greek but! He went to Plaza for a long time. I never make personal reports, first time I do, because the gentleman's nerve has no limits! Every day it terrifies the world. Every day he talks about fines to be imposed, the Greeks to be closed at home, and he walks to Plaka. Is he joking? Not to say what take news is moving himself, as he had moved a take news here, in the House, from the Minutes, in the "iefimerida" and I was about to sue him and he took it back the next day. The joke is over with the hated sites, the well-paid sites of New Democracy! It's over! It's over! Wrong tenth: The Scientific Committee considered the tests to be useless at first, dangerous the masks at first, harmless the public transport - it had the Prime Minister and two studies, which I am still waiting for, my child, but, rather, the studies are coming from Thessaloniki, slowly - the schools are being opened - shut down. The committee said that and the Prime Minister was listening. And I ask you: after all the mistakes of this committee, why don't you carat them all? They expelled the Greek Prime Minister and the Greek Government. Why don't he carat them all? This means that there is a government complicity. Eleventh mistake: the members of the committee are now being fought, but everyone agrees with one. Now listen. Half of them say here, the other half there, depending on the subject, "the individual responsibility of the Greeks". All these gentlemen have no individual responsibility for the criminal errors and negligence of the committee! Only the Greek has individual responsibility! These are what bother me as a human and as a citizen, the injustice we do against the Greek. You're chasing the Greek for the masks. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the Texas Attorney General, Ken Paxton - they sent it this morning friends from America - sued mask supporters, because that's where the move is now, and we're still chasing Greek with the mask? Wrong twelfth: Here's the crime! In the media, then, it doesn't fit, in the supermarkets it doesn't fit, in the protests it doesn't fit - this is where SYRIZA is wrong, we'll see you - in Ikaria it doesn't fit, in sport it sticks. I mean, in all sports activities, in amateur unions, the coronary sticks. But it does not fit in public transport, it does not stick to buses, it does not stick to the gatherings, it sticks to the churches, it does not stick to the marches. You won't be believed. Nobody. Neither you nor you. People don't believe you, after all, with those mistakes you make. And I will put forward the document - which I said to you - of the Orthodox Association appeal because the country was divided internationally as a result of the closure of the churches. Congratulations, you have exposed the country internationally once again! To close slowly, I'll tell SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen Mr Tsipras be a fan, a friend, a patron of the vaccine. I could never really understand, however, since you are sick of vaccine and obligation, because the marches must be carried out. I'm not going to reason out. It's happening. They've got to be done. However, I did not see you strong supporters of the congregation opening up. That's what bothers me. I would like to see the political system, whether left or so-called right, from here - supposedly right! - to say: yes, to the marches. It's an inalienable democratic right. But democratic right and constitutionally guaranteed is Greek religious worship. In his church you forbid it. That's why I'm telling you you're making mistakes. Or there's a coronary coronary, as you say - because there's a coronary, perfect, and a dash, the deadly questionable, it's said by scientists for many people - and you're making the vaccine compulsory, and we're not going to the marches or there's no virus and we're going to the marches. But open the congregations too. This parade will take place without Greeks. Two hundred years since 1821, and you have decided, without asking anyone - on any committee, it has not been debated - whether the Greek must go with the Greek flag and applaud the Greek Army. Two hundred years are completed and you forbid Greeks to honour the revolution of '21. Now, you'll tell me, you've gone and put Mrs. Angelopoulou. What can I expect from you? Did I expect something better? For me, friends and friends, you have created a state which is afraid of the citizen, which unfortunately turns the policemen - I will say it directly - into the globemen who beat people. Why are you using the cops, working on the cops? You decide for us and for the police without asking us, and the civilian hates the police and the policeman hates the civilian. The citizen, therefore, fears the policeman, fears the tax collector, fears the insurers, fears why he pays uninsured. What state did you finally make? Fifty years, what state did you make? To fear the citizen every day and to fear, above all, those who turn civil servants into bambooes. That's the worst of all. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's all about education. Because I have Mr. Georgiadis here and I thank him and deal with ancient Greeks, I will ask him how pleased he is that he is to be a member of a government where in today's Greece one can hesitate to lesbian sadomazism - the thesis, doctoral, 'lesbian sadomazism', is a thesis of the university, smiling, Mr. Loverdo - but at the same time a doctorate for Byzantine emperors does not exist? Doctorate of Alexander the Great is not specific. For his finances, not generally Alexander the Great. ‘Lesbian sadomazochism’. He is a member of the herd that hit the man the beautiesman who had the icon and pre-pained him, they tore him up. Evidently this lady, who is a university teacher, and has had talks, should have been removed from you. Tell me this lady what she has to do in Greek education, when she insults a religious symbol of another religion that may disagree with her. If it were for the Quran, all the parties here would make announcements, just like me. It's about Orthodoxy, though, and no one's talking from you. We're talking about a lady professor at the university. We're not talking about a mob now. We're not talking about a pack of people. We're talking about a teacher who teaches at the university who tore down the picture of the Virgin Mary, she broke the picture with other people on the street ahead and she was happy. "Democracy of "vanila", sexuality, parentality and affinity in Greece, creating a family in the middle of the laws, notes on lesbian motherhood in Greece, sexual institutions - do not concern me with these, the last of which concern me - Mrs.Aspaia Halkidou, an academic scholar at the ETUC, at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. However, such a university, the Kapodistrias cannot be dreamed, where you take the symbol of a religion, whether Korani, is called this or a picture of the Virgin Mary, and you smash it. Who? The teacher, the man who must teach morality, the child’s education, smashes a religious symbol, a symbol of a religion, anyone, in front of the eyes of a believer. That's unthinkable. It's unthinkable to repeat. But what discipline are we talking about? And I close here so I don't waste time. Philologist and theologian are arrested to go to the graffiti allowed by the municipality, a mayor. Extremely want to tell him? Extreme. Are you crazy? Crazy. He made Papafless in front of the 1821 Graffiti Anniversary. Professor of Philologists and professor of theologian were arrested and they teach our children. If we had Che Guevara and Papafless next door, they might not only know Papafless. Why? They teach our children history? You don't hate anyone else for their difference. You don't hate and you don't hate anyone for their different perception. Isn't that what we all say? Why do you people who love different, what is Orthodox, what is Christian and what has to do with history? This is my question, and if anyone can untie me, they can untie me here. Because condemnation from the New Democracy has not even been heard by anyone here about what has happened in the religious symbol of orthodox. And the Quran was, we all had to go out and convict it, because it's wrong what's going on, it's instigating racist and religious hatred. Is it, Mr. Colleague, as a lawman? I'm glad about that. Where are you, gentlemen of the Left? Where are you, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Where's your party to make announcements? Where are you? Here's the question. And I would like to say this: I have not been able to understand about the economy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the mistakes you make. Debt will return to 2019 levels in 2060. I'll be, if I live, about ninety-four years old. I can't see it. With what we're pulling from New Democracy, we're not all gonna make time. I'll say. However, in 2060 the debt will be at 2019 levels and they will applaud and applaud that we borrowed - to "SKAI", "STAR" - thirty-year bonds and applaud underneath. And I wonder: To applaud why I am producing wealth, and I can pay my debts, I understand that. I should like to applaud why I am borrowed and owed to the same enlarged debt, and I am swelling the debt again, and the next ones are paying for it, I have to have my head tight, I have to think, because the debt is breaking shorts. And, unfortunately, we will have this wrong model in the coming months and I ask the Prime Minister himself, I beg him - I say it for our Greece - and all the parties' leaders, to sit down and talk about the economy seriously, to bring proposals here to produce wealth. We have problems that we will find in front of us. And just because the government has heard the Commission say that 2022 is going to be more relaxed, the gentlemen have taken a breath, they are happy. He tells you: "They'll give more now, we're fine and we're not going to elections." What's their pleasure? The looseness of the Commission. But when the Commission decides, after two or three years, that the subsidies you gave were State aid and must be returned, I will see where you will find them, because that is what I fear is going to happen. I fear that this will now be done regardless of what Germany is now saying. Germany is looking at its interest. The government therefore supports its hopes of increasing tourism and consumption. It's the wrong model. Why? Because of huge public and private debts you cannot hope for consumption. You're making mistakes. And the red debt, the private debt, and the public debt that is catastrophic are not helping to consume. Don't you understand that? And since you don't print money as a country yourself, but you're borrowing again, to give money to the market, you have to borrow, get, give to go to consumption. What simpler things than that? I don't understand. Do you have to be the great Einstein economist to understand the obviouss? Here, ladies and gentlemen, to understand, our country's biggest export is oil. We have 500 million euros to export and import about. Since 2014, olive oil production has fallen by 10%. For the first product that gives us income, currency, profit decreased by 10%, instead of increasing it by 30%. We'll do it as well standardization to get goodwill in bottles, etc. Not in tons in Italy. So here I tell us even Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, in olive oil. Turkey! Do you understand? Our country that "born" the oil, olive oil, Athena, Acropolis, we call oil, etc. I don't understand how you've done all this. And here's the graphics. I'll show you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u105	He's got bigger fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u106	It's not exactly like that, and I'll explain it to you with just numbers, my admiral, because the little ship of the port and another fryer. When I produce five hundred thousand tonnes of oil, I tell you, but I send them with the pound and the can and the tanks in Italy to put them in bottles, you lose your added value, because a hundred ml - three hundred ml of the "HARRODS" is sold in England for 15 euros. Understood? And he sells it with 0.70-0.80-0.90 litre. That's the difference. I can reduce my output if I increase my turnover and it is done by standardization and goodwill in the product. That's called an extroversion. You never did that. That's what the Greek Solution tells you. I'm not telling you to grow fields on Mars. I say, however, that this product should be made in a beautiful package and sold where it should be. We have the best oil in the world. Unfortunately, however, oil in Greece is only for massages. It's only for hatreds that the oil in Greece is. It's not to produce wealth, unfortunately. In conclusion, I would remind you how the industries in Greece have closed down. How do you remember the elders? I think you remember that. Greek car. He's Mr. Demetriades around here, somewhere there he was in Moschato. Model 505. He was about to close an agreement for assembling and manufacturing tracks in Greece and industrializing it. In 1958 legislation changes randomly with a law, an article, making the production of the car forbidden. It increased both the taxation and closed the man. That's how you did to the industries. The industries closed down like this. Pitts said so, too, well-known Pitts. And because I have to tell you something that I mean: Stop cultivating the myth of the German model. Look for a little at the relations between Mercedes in 1949, the 'DAIMLER BENZ', on a large scale with Argentina. How did Argentina launder Germans' money and how was Germany rebuilt? Look to understand that Germany's leadership is unwilling. Understand that Germany as leadership - we are not talking about the citizens, I repeat - the German leadership for two centuries hates Greece because its interests conflict with Greece, because it is philosophical. Don't invest in Germany in anything, and when I say anything, I mean nothing. And if you want growth to come, there are four applications in particular: Elimination of charges such as HICPIA, which you said here of the New Democracy, which was temporary on Venizelos, and here on the Change Movement that HUNP was temporary. No more permanent than the provisional. Change the VAT, lower him down. Every unfair tax will end, because the Greeks have no patience, because patience is virtue, but a policy governed by virtue and morality. In a policy governed by falsehood, the folklore speech, and especially half the truths, patience was enough. Election will come. Get out of here if the place is quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u107	We are now moving on to the debate on the objections of anti-constitutionalism which, firstly, the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and, secondly, Mer25. The debate will take place in accordance with Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and to be specific to what I have just said, pursuant to Rule 100(1), in the case of a single debate on the principle, on the articles and on the whole objections raised or objections raised by more than one person concerning the unconstitutionality of the draft law or a proposal for a law or an amendment shall be discussed or discussed until the vote begins. Secondly, I should like to say that the procedure that is always followed is as follows: everyone who is mentioned will first speak for five minutes. That is how the Rules of Procedure provide. The sayings - because they are two - the saying on the part of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr Famelos and the saying on the part of Merame 25 Mr Arsenis and then the rival, Mr. Ploris from New Democracy, can be taken, while the leaders of the parties, who can always be represented by the Parliamentary Representatives. Obviously, the ministers can also speak. Everyone has five minutes of speaking time. We're starting the process. Please warmly respect the time. Of course, there will be reasonable tolerance. I give the floor first to Mr Famello from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. The SYRIZA MPs who sign the objection of unconstitutionalism, all who are here today, object to Article 1 of the draft law, because individual articles of the agreement with the "ELLENIKI CRYSOS" are contrary to Articles 1, 24, 26, 28, 100A and 102 of the Constitution. There are four scriptures of our objection. I will present them in detail, Mr President. The first objection concerns Article 11 of the Convention, which deals with the settlement of existing disputes. I would ask you to pay attention to this because it is also linked to an issue of infidelity that has been identified by the relevant Minister. This article refers to the company's differences and claims for compensation against the State, as described in two out-of-court statements. However, Article 100a of the Constitution expressly states that the competence of the Legal Council of State lies with judicial support and representation of the State and the recognition of claims against the State or compromise with it. In Article 10, this extrajudicial, which is the first infringement of Article 100 of the Constitution, is recognised as an existing dispute, and in Article 11 of the Convention, Mr President, the resignation of the parties, namely the Greek State, of any claim which is in the past, present or future, taking account of the fact that the extrajudicial proceedings have not been expressly provided for by the Constitution, Article 100A, for the sole competence of the Council of State. I think we should talk about it again. This constitutional provision is not only related to the guarantee of the rule of law, but also to the efficient and rational functioning of the public administration. And here there is a very serious violation, which, as the Minister says, relates to a maximum amount, which takes into account at the expense of the Greek public of 700,000 000. Since the State, represented only by the Minister, indirectly recognises claims for compensation and makes a compromise, i.e. taking account of this amount in the agreement, should have consulted the Legal Board of State at the request of 100A. The claim by the Minister for the resignation of the company by the right to exercise is based on the fact that the Minister has recognised the company's claim and has therefore violated the Constitution as to the role of the Law Council of the State, along with the infidelity that he himself is making in this matter. Because it therefore releases the company from other obligations. It accepts the difference and releases it from obligations not only today but also the future and the rest of the public bodies. That, unfortunately, is part of it. The second paragraph of Article 21 of our objection, Mr President, stipulates that the public and any state or local authority will refrain from regulation, rules or procedures which will introduce discrimination and a substantial financial burden on the company. That is, practically, forbids the Greek State as a whole, but also to every local authority and any other public authority and obliges them to refrain from regulation, rules for the entire duration of twenty-five plus five years. This is, of course, also in line with Article 113, which provides for a non-violence clause for any claim. In fact, it provides for a clause not to bring an action against the public or any other State or public authority against the company. But this, that is, Article 21, contradicts Article 1(2) of the Constitution, concerning the powers stemming from the people, Article 26(1) on the legislative function of the House and Article 28(1) on the generally acknowledged rules of international law and on 102 on self-government, and expressly stipulates that the local authorities of the first and second degrees have the presumption of competence for the administration of local affairs. However, Article 21 of the Convention prohibits both the Greek Parliament and the Greek administration and the local government from taking measures. For example, the local municipality cannot decide after five years that municipal fees need to be increased, it does not have that authority. And that's what's provided for here in the contract? It is also forbidden for the state to legislate tomorrow on tax policy for the years to come, for example, because it will change the taxes that a company must pay. And while all the other Greeks and all the companies will be obliged, they are excluded here. There is therefore no right for the government to exercise this right, even if we are forced by an international convention, because it only integrates the European Parliament's regulations, forgets the Council. However, it says that if there is anything under international convention or international law, it cannot also enter into Greek legislation. And I continue in the third paragraph which is the infringement of Article 24 of the Constitution with regard to the revision of a decision approving environmental conditions. What's he saying here? It says very simply - and we have analysed it - that the Greek state cannot in its environmental licensing in depth twenty-five plus twenty-five years to amend environmental licensing if it introduces economic conditions, which are more responsible for the company than those currently in force. In other words, it commits that the Greek administration will have no new environmental status, there will be no progress in science, there will be no natural risk and it grants the right expressly laid down in Article 24 of the Constitution, which says that this is the responsibility of the Greek state and commits the Greek state to the detriment of constitutional provisions. Finally, Mr President, our fourth intervention concerns the independent environmental auditor, which is also in breach of Article 24 of the Constitution, because it defines and obliges the existence of an independent environmental auditor, which assists every public authority, is present and gives its opinion and the audits and decisions of the authorities, if the verifier hired and paid by the company - so it is checked on its independence - will be void! It therefore prohibits any public authority from carrying out the tasks assigned to it by other constitutional requirements. But at the same time it limits the State and local authorities' right to implement Article 24. Furthermore, I would say - to be a little clear - that the institution of the independent environmental auditor is a very dangerous adaptation of the institution of independent engineer from the concession agreements and should not be confused, Mr President. Because that is what we are talking about in terms of a concession agreement with the Greek State, which concerns a public infrastructure operation, and here we are talking about a mining activity which has a corresponding benefit and discrimination has no other mining activity or economic activity in Greece. There is also a matter of discrimination in this respect. Indeed, Mr President, it says that the revised environmental conditions will only be checked by the independent environmental auditor. And here is the first violation of public competence. Secondly, will the independent auditor inform the company of its infringements - not the Greek State? - and recommend rehabilitation actions - not environmental inspection? Thirdly, will he notify the public - with notification to the company - of the company's omissions - that is, he will notify the public of the infringements, not the Greek State? - and will be rewarded by the company and will not maintain a similar claim against the government. Obviously - we have already said - there is a reasonable question as to how it will maintain its independence, if it is hired and paid only by the company, and there is only a responsibility towards it. There is, therefore, a power to exercise public authority over the verifier. The violation of Article 24, which requires effective control by the State for the protection of the environment, is therefore clearly apparent, by means of preventive and repressive means. And here all the rapporteur's powers and the State's powers are passed on to the environmental auditor. It is therefore the state - and with this, Mr President - that I am completing part of the control powers which the Constitution has to exercise, as only a third party is appointed to exercise this competence, which is paid by the controlled company. That is why I think we all have to express that there are reasonable doubts both about impartiality and objectivity. But here, we came here to see the constitutional violation. Therefore, a liquid situation is being formed which creates obstacles to the early and effective exercise of the State's obligation and a clear violation of Article 24 and the role of the independent auditor. And basically, there is a violation of the needs of our lives, Minister. There are these four reasons, therefore, for the unconstitutional issues that we are tabling. And we believe that beyond the formality of the debate, Mr Minister, you must listen with caution, because it will not be a choice for SYRIZA to go into infringements of duty and infidelity. It will be your choice and we have warned you about it in a cooperative, institutional and democratic manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u109	On behalf of Merra25, Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mera25 also identifies unconstitutionalism in further articles, which I will highlight. Apart from Article 24, we also have a violation of Article 4 of the Constitution. Article 5, Article 25 and Article 106 shall also be infringed. In particular, according to Article 4 of the Constitution, Greeks are equal before the law. Greeks and Greek women have equal rights and obligations. Greek citizens contribute in a non-discriminatory manner to public burdens, depending on their powers. In addition, and in accordance with Article 25 of the Constitution, human rights as a person and as a member of the social group and the principle of social rule of law are guaranteed by the State. All state bodies are required to ensure their unobstructed and effective exercise. These rights apply to relations between private individuals, to which they belong. Any restrictions which may be imposed by the Constitution on such rights must be provided for either directly by the Constitution or by the law, provided that they are reserved for that purpose, and must respect the principle of proportionality. Recognising and protecting the fundamental, indiscriminate human rights by the state is aimed at achieving social progress through freedom and justice. The abuse of a right may not be allowed. However, the contract introduces a clause in Article 11(3) by which the Greek State will not be able to bring any action. A period of 90 days is imposed on the Greek State for the adoption of any administrative act - in Article 14(3) - and in such cases the company has no time limit. It is laid down in Article 19 that the company's total profits shall be considered as foreign capital and shall be protected and taxed accordingly. In paragraph 1, the State undertakes to allow at any time the export of such funds in cash abroad without a limit. In particular, it is stated that the State is obliged to maintain sufficient stocks and means of payment abroad in order to allow the company to repay funds and to export profits. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 5(1) of the Constitution, everyone has the right to freely develop his or her personality and to participate in the country's social, economic and political life, provided that he does not insult the rights of others and does not violate the Constitution or good customs. By this contract, the Greek State transfers disproportionate rights to a mining, metallurgical company of foreign interests. It therefore creates an issue of unfair competition with all other mining undertakings - metallurgical, mining, industrial, craft industries - and with all economic activity, insulting their rights and undermining their economic activity and participation in the country. Moreover, in accordance with Article 24 of the Constitution, the protection of the natural and cultural environment is an obligation of the State and a right of everyone. In order to preserve the State, the State has a duty to take particularly preventive or repressive measures in the context of the principle of sustainability. Customs duties are an obligation of the State. It shall be prohibited to change the destination of forests and forest land, unless the agricultural holding or other use in the national economy imposes it on the public interest is appropriate. The monuments, traditional areas and traditional elements are protected by the state. The law will lay down the necessary restrictive measures to protect the property as well as the way and the type of compensation for the owners. At the same time, the contract does not provide for, and normally required, a strategic environmental impact study, nor does it provide for a new environmental impact study, as it was due. The new environmental authorisation is also required because of the new contract, but also because, following the Court's decision, which has confirmed the felony against the environment, the decision to approve environmental conditions should have been annulled, something that the Government does not do, which is also an element of breach of duty. In this regard, the Commission notes that the Danish authorities have not submitted any comments on the Opening Decision and that the Commission has not taken account of the fact that, in the absence of any comments on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. Further, in accordance with Article 106(1) of the Constitution, to establish social peace and protect the general interest of the State, the State plans and coordinates economic activity in the country, seeking to ensure the economic development of all sectors of the national economy. It shall take the necessary measures to exploit the sources of national wealth from the atmosphere and underground underwater deposits to promote regional development and to promote, in particular, the economy of mountain, island and border regions, while this Convention infringes the competition rules and State aid rules. In particular, the Greek State guarantees that it will compensate the company as a joint venture. It lays down as a criterion for the recruitment of wage claims in order not to recruit residents of the region and at least not only them. It does not bind the company "ELLENIC CRYSOS" for jobs, as these depend on its profitability and the growth plan may change at the outset. It binds the Greek State, which cannot impose conditions that create financial burdens on the "ELLENIKIKI CHRYS" for the compliance of the company for the protection of the environment. So the Greek state will have commitments and limits to environmental licensing, and as a result we have an appeal under Article 24 of the Constitution. Recognises in Article 10 as an existing difference with the exterior of the company’s exterior in September 2018, where it claimed EUR 750 million as foregone gains, even though the Council of State in 2020 justified the RIS. This, instead of claiming compensation for government gains, as the company does not proceed with the metallurgy, which also raises a question of infidelity as to the fact that the Greek Government does not claim legal compensation under the previous contract. It provides little profits for the Greek State during the life of the mines, which are far less than the percentages of mining fees that make companies in any other country of Europe, even those at the top of the list of government corruption. In other words, the profits for the company are expected to be EUR 11 billion, while all these years - the seventy years - for the Greek State will not exceed EUR 190 million, i.e. 2%. It is revealed that the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" is looking for investors and obliges the Greek State to support it - Article 18(3) - and to cooperate with any sponsor of the company. And the public has no right of intervention, refusal or control. As you can see, other lawmakers will also find anti-constitutional articles. We will also use as a PARTA25 any institutional tool to protect our democracy against this violation of duty collectively from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u111	The government has the floor now, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, two objections to anti-constitutionalism have been raised. Before I actually look at what is being said, I am first of all addressing those who are not legal, to understand how simply these two objections have no ground in the Constitution. If someone were to look at the Constitution and see the articles, it would make sense to reach common references to where there is unconstitutionality. A SYRIZA invokes five anti-constitutional articles, and Mer25 six articles different from each other. You only agree to Article 24. The logic says that if there was anything that could be right, you'd have common references. The legal person who would have sat down to see would fall in common, because as far as the five articles that you of the SYRIZA do not put them on and put them in Mera25 are concerned, obviously, so that SYRIZA doesn't get them, it means that it has ended up insulting the Constitution. Similarly, with regard to the five articles put by SYRIZA and you have not put them as a PART25, it means that in your study you understood that they did not insult it. So I'd put one's arguments on each other's arguments. Mera25 found no unconstitutionalism in Article 1, Article 26, Article 28, Article 100 and Article 102 of the Constitution, as did SYRIZA. Because if you'd found it, you'd have put it on. You agree on one point in Article 24. Let's go see now what these articles are, because at some point you have to pay attention to how you come and put the issues of unconstitutionalism. SYRIZA considers that by this Convention, Mr President, the form of the constitution is affected because it invokes the unconstitutionality of Article 1(3), which is in the chapter in the form of the constitution. So here comes the Civic Opposition and tells you that this convention affects our parliamentary citizens. And there are Members who sign that there is a contract affecting the parliamentary system. You're talking about Article 1(3). This article says: "All powers come from the people, there are for him and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution". This article, therefore, is the basic principle of legitimisation of governments. And you come here to say that what New Democracy will dominately vote for as a parliamentary majority is contrary to the form of the constitution. What should I comment on? You also come to say that this convention is contrary to Article 26 of the Constitution. Let us see what Article 26 of the Constitution says: 'The legislative function is exercised by Bulgaria and the President of the Republic'. So with this convention you tell us that we are violating the duties of the President of the Republic and the duties of the House, without any documentation. I did not hear that supported by Mr Famelos. You come and say that this convention violates Article 28(1) which refers to international conventions, whereas paragraphs 2 and 3 in how the country entered the European Union. But this is not an international convention. And if you imply that European law is being violated, then there is no question of unconstitutionality, because European law would be an autonomous violation, for which one might refer to the courts. But you cannot say that Article 28 of the Constitution is being violated. You are also saying that Article 100a of the Constitution on the Legal Council of the State and Article 102 on the ATT is violated. So let's go see these sub-reports you're making. Is there a matter with the Legal Council of the State? There is no question at all. And frankly, an objection of unconstitutionality can be made, even to the ones you are exposed. You have no problem going out and taking a position on the fact that Mr Koufantinis is right about his demands, who, of course, has lost where he has been judicially. Your right! But you have no right to threaten the Minister and to refer to infidelity and breach of duty. If you think anyone has committed infidelity or breach of duty, go and come the files here and see what has happened. We are now going to the famous article 11 to see how we have arrived here, ladies and gentlemen, but let us see who has damaged the Greek public and who has the courage to come to this Chamber and to raise objections of unconstitutionality. There are three decisions of the Council of State which have justified the company. And do not refer to the 2020 decision, because Article 11 makes no reference. It only refers to the out-of-courts of the company that's been in until '18. So it's about what was going on until then. On the basis of these three decisions of the Council of State, the company has raised claims to the Greek State with an extrajudicial declaration of up to 850m euros. In fact, one of these decisions by the Council of State is that it illegally deems the withdrawal of the approval decisions of the technical studies of the decision by Mr Skourletis. In other words, the company has raised demands, because the administration has been unlawful, as the Council of State decided. If we did, Mr President, come here and negotiate with the company, the matter would be raised by the Legal Council of the State. So let's go see why Mr. Skrekas will be accused, according to Mr. Famello, of infidelity. She will be accused of infidelity because the company unilaterally comes and resigns from any claim against the EUR 850 million. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if we went to court and won, it is well. But if we were to lose, would the SYRIZA ministers come with their own property to pay for the damage to the public, or would the Greek taxpayer pay it? Well, if and if...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u113	We'll make them a statue!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, Mr Paulakis wants to speak. Because I'm sure everything he says will be in favour of the New Democracy, I have no problem talking if he wants to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u115	Don't interrupt, Mr. Polakis. Go on, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u116	So the company comes in and unilaterally resigns from claims raised up until 2018. The Greek side does not lose any right at all, because as far as anything that you inaccurately say here is concerned - it has to do with environmental legislation, with any tax legislation or with criminal responsibilities is not waived by any such claim. We are starting the new contract with a confidence, and the company is actually not going to claim anything at the moment. Indeed, the Greek side - and this is the important thing that the Legal Council of the State does not need - does not make a compromise, because it does not recognise the requirement that it exists. If we recognized the requirement and the resignation came, someone would say to you "Let's go and see it, because he undertakes an obligation." We don't recognize anything. One day the company actually resigns from all the compensation it would probably have been called upon to pay the Greek State if it were to lose legal status, due to the acts and omissions of your own governments. And you come here to say that he does infidelity and breach of duty this Minister who ensures that there is no chance he can pay the Greek public money! So we would be very happy to sign the petition, take it to the prosecutor and resign from now, and you too, your right to false repression, to finally see who comes here and tells consciously lies. We are now coming to the part of the objections raised by the Mera25. I have to say that unlike SYRIZA, which gives us such a piece of paper that is signed by about twenty Members and which is simply mentioned by the articles, it mentions completely irrelevant articles, as I have shown you, as for popular sovereignty, for international conventions, the Mera25, although a smaller party, comes here and makes an analysis of the issues that it thinks should be explained. And that's because he obviously studied the subject and he didn't come here to throw away a piece of paper to make a communication game. But what Merra25 says - for the last time I will keep the environment - is wrong again, because to fundamental principles relating to equality and to the development of personality, there is actually a difference in treatment in Article 11, which I have explained earlier, as well as in Article 14 for the ninety days or, above all, - that is where it focuses - on foreign funds. In all cases Greek legislation applies. The ninety days are in the public interest, so that there is no delay in investment, and we can make it clear that the revenue on foreign income is normally taxed. You went out here and said more. Profits are post-taxes, always. We have to understand that. It turns out someone, after tax, has some profits. That is why we are once again implementing, ladies and gentlemen, Law 2687/1953. There are specific forecasts that can be used again by a specific procedure. So there is no more favourable treatment for this company, only application here beyond the law. In Article 24 now, which is the only one you agree with with, and in particular it is about the part of the environmental assessment study, as has been said within the committee and the answers have been given to you, but it is also clear from the decision 1492/2013 of the Council of State, which was then for the Kassandra mines, that this study is not envisaged because it does not appear in the areas that it is doing, it does not change the framework that existed and does not fall within the status of licensing. If you also see the decision 1492/2013 of the Council of State for a separate section, where it tells you that the next investment project will not need such a study, you could understand it. With these thoughts, Mr President, we say that there is no question of the unconstitutionality of the bill. Politics can be the criticism, Mr President, and it is legitimate if anyone disagrees with the convention. But, on the contrary, there is no question in the Constitution. Much more if someone here thinks there is criminal responsibility, he is responsible as a Member who does not go to denounce it. Because we cannot put criminal responsibilities out of hand here, we cannot listen to them, and the Member who says so will not have the courage to go to the prosecutor's office to determine what these criminal responsibilities are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u117	The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak because, in my opinion, there is a serious question of Parliament's order and competence in the debate that is taking place just now on constitutionality. This results from the simple reading of the very small report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. In fact, I am surprised that it is signed by very valid scientists, who in too many bills have given their lights and have helped and guided all of us ordinary MPs and non-legislators, so that we can get into these issues relating to law. Here we have an intention - which seems very clear to anyone who reads this text - of a procedural type of management of the Parliament. I would say that it does not pay tribute to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. And I say it directly to write it in the Minutes. It is a text which says to me simply Greek: "I expel this glass from me." That's what he says. In other words, it is very clear that there is a question of non-conformity with the legislation in force in the Convention, that this is usually the case, and then it is compulsory - it clearly says - to come to Parliament in order to put up legislative intervention and apply this convention with the Greek state. First of all, he's talking about compulsoryity, so he's coming here. The only example that says, as in the legislation to which it refers, relates to public concessions, i.e. public interest, and contracts which have been made by way of derogation from specific provisions relating to the public interest. It speaks of such projects, which are specifically mentioned. So then there comes a convention here and I must - I repeat - put the legislative majority in order to be able to do so. It is obvious that this is not the case. This is a contract, a project, for the operation of a company in this matter. So it has nothing to do with what is being said. Take note now - and I close with this, Mr President, because I really think this is a very serious matter - how the Scientific Committee of Parliament closes, since it is revealing that there is no harmonisation with the legislation in force. On the other hand, it says that the terms which deviate from the rules in force or lay down individual rules binding on third parties have the nature of legislation and therefore the administrative acts adopted on the basis thereof may be brought before the courts. This is the help of the MPs, of us all. And I repeat that we are talking about the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which is not just adequate, but has also given samples to very serious bills and has given us great help in the debate on constitutionality and the adequacy of articles. I am well aware, of course, that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament does not legislate. It's an opinion of the President at all times. I repeat that this is a very serious aid for all the ordinary Members, for the three hundred, so that we can contact the issues that are usually in the debate by the eminent lawyers who are in the Chamber. Therefore, Mr President, you have been approved for many years in this Parliament, and it is not an honour for the procedure. This report by the Scientific Committee, which has been handed over to us, does not provide an honour for Parliament for a contract which has been prepared for months in the way it has been presented. I do not go into the essence of the issues that have been raised or the articles of the Constitution. Indeed, it also leaves the government that brings this contract, which is not a concession contract for a public service task, to be approved by the specific procedure in Parliament. That is what I wanted to say about the Minutes of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Now we are going to the circle of parliamentary representatives, starting with the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to say to you that although we thank you for saying here, I sincerely hoped that we are more prepared by SYRIZA colleagues in our anti-constitutional objections, I would like to ask you what kind of legal argument is what it says that we have five articles that we find unconstitutionally in the draft law that you are tabling, while SYRIZA is five or six other articles and because they are identified only in one article, so firstly the other four or five are constitutional? With this logic, once the Change Movement finds no unconstitutional - or the Greek Solution or you - it will mean that there is nothing unconstitutional! You know, Parliament's function is precisely that, that is, that we have different opinions on things. That is exactly the definition of democracy. A very great power of our country, SYRIZA, finds elsewhere unconstitutionalisms, with which we do not agree, and we found ourselves elsewhere, with which they do not agree. The argument, therefore, Mr Pléri - and I am very sympathetic to you - is the least lame or dicolam. No one can say otherwise, no matter what. Secondly, I listened carefully. You only responded to one or two articles from what we regard as unconstitutional. The other three, it seems, either you cannot answer them or you are not interested in answering them. One of the two applies. So I noticed in your answer that you refer to the laws of the Greek state, to the law, to these, to the other law, and so on. The question I must ask you is this: have you not noticed that we are making objections of unconstitutionality? We didn't say about laws. We said about the Constitution, about our country's fundamental law. You as a legal person know that this law goes beyond all the texts, because it is the cornerstone, the main law. It is the law, without which there is no country, there is no substance, there is nothing. So the only argument you have raised was indeed a false copy - and again apologies for the expression - in my opinion, since you said only that it was legal. We didn't say it was against the laws you mentioned. We said it was against the fundamental law of our country, the Greek Constitution. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u122	Mr. President, have you seen me? Can I talk to you sometime?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u123	I don't need to see you. It's for granted. Let's go in reverse time. Alas! Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, thank you very much. You know every time an objection to constitutionality is discussed, it has an interest. The procedure is, of course, predetermined. We all know the result. The parties choose a statement of opposition to anti-constitutionalism for political reasons on tactical grounds. It's a parliamentary weapon. That's good. Mr President, we are addressing all parties and all parties. And here's the big difference between us and everyone else. You know we're not ideological, we don't have such complexes if you want ideologically. We are reasonable people, reasonable party, politically correct. What do I mean? I would remind you that about twenty days ago, when the Greek Solution of Anti-constitutionalism lodged an objection to the infamous subject of the bill by Mr Levanios, who spoke about the minorities, who took it back to the government, while agreeing with the left parties - and SYRIZA etc. - they have condemned the objection of unconstitutionalism not to combine them with us! These are the ideas of the past that do not belong to today. We don't have that kind of thing. Can we talk about the anti-constitutional objection? Do you want to agree? We can agree, although we said that the result is we know what it is. But really, the first authorisation to the company "ELLENIC CHRYSOS" who gave it? Didn't SYRIZA give it? Then it wasn't unconstitutional? We, I say again, agree with what you say today. Now did the pain catch you? Let me ask another question because we are talking about unconstitutionalism, what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional in Greece. Mr. Plori, I'm not addressing lawyers, this is a Greek Parliament. We're not talking to each other. The Greek people are listening. Do you, the parties you have governed, think it is constitutional - to say this - as SYRIZA, for example, brought to the issue of the oppressor, the disgraceful Ambassadors' Agreement that he decided on his own without asking anyone? Is that a constitutional thing? Tell us. And now you said, Mr. Plouri, SYRIZA has damaged the public and the taxpayer will pay the marble. That's what you said. You're not telling me, is it constitutionally the lost 100 billion in the first semester that the Greek people will pay for, which while you blame SYRIZA, you cover him? You cover him for not bringing in the exam. Isn't that unconstitutional? It's unconstitutional, Mr. Plearis. The hunger, the poverty of the Greeks is constitutional? Tell us a little bit about unconstitutionalism in here, house seizures, auctions, evictions, unemployment is a constitutional right of the Greek citizen? To talk about unconstitutionalism, because the laws, paragraphs and articles will eat us and lose the essence. Minister, regarding the mines and the "ELLENIC FRYSOS" - the President of the Greek Solution told you about it a little while ago - and because we like history and it, we rely on it, it really reminds us of the mines of Lavrio, where slaves were working for the company and only Athens won. That's right, the President said it a moment ago. Citizens didn't win. Question: What does Greece gain, what is our homeland gaining from this oppressed deal, with hunger wages, in terrible conditions, a thousand jobs, and beyond what? Nothing. And what are we talking about, Mr. Screka? We're talking about gold, about the future. But here you have promised and sold everything out: the ports, oil, airports, water telecommunications and now gold. You've promised everything. The case is over. Question: What does this company pay? We're talking about unconstitutionalism, and it's really about exploding in here. What does this company pay? Does he pay taxes? Oh, no. In 2019: Damages of 70 million, Mr President, according to the balance sheet. In 2018, the same company had 38 million losses. He didn't pay anything. Why? Because of course he does what every company does. Watch out, this learns whoever opens a company in Greece. What am I doing? I sell below costs to eight, nine offshore I have in the Netherlands, I present damage, I do not pay tax, it does not collect anything from the Greek state. The company should do this and be chasing the state after the tax companies and another forcing the state to make a "gentlemen's agreement" with the companies. You basically legalise tax evasion. You, Mr. Screka, have legalized the tax evasion. We are not winning anything, we are losing too much, we are not collecting taxes, we are destroying the environment. And in any case, Mr. Velopoulos does not say so, we do not say so. That's what seismologists call it. For Christ's sake! Don't you see that? Papazachos said that 20 million tons of hazardous waste are gathered in the barrier that is dangerous because it is on an active breach. In 1932 we had 7 Richter there. What if there's an earthquake there? Everyone's gonna drown. Destroy! So we think it is time for the political system to stand up and look at the Greek people in the eyes. We're not talking to each other here to talk. As to what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional, unfortunately we have forgotten a Constitution, we have done it accorded, and you are using it, and you who govern the country per season as it suits you and serves you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Will anyone ask: Are there any provisions of the constitution that this convention can violate? There could be a affirmative answer. Yes, of course, there are provisions of the Constitution that are violated by the convention. Five articles were reported by SYRIZA and six by Mera25. But at the same time there is another article in the Constitution, Article 107, which protects foreign investment and logistics and gives constitutional effect to Law 2687/1953. On this law he based his argument and answered Mr. Ploris. What does this law say? He's got a series of articles. For example, Article 8 has a number of exemptions from taxation for companies set up with foreign capital. Legal tax evasion. Article 10, for example, states that this undertaking may be treated with special treatment, which do not have other undertakings in the same sector that are set up with domestic capital. Article 11 also refers to a ban on any form of forced expropriation of that company. So here's how the existence of this law is scandalous. On this particular legal framework, this convention has been based, which we all call scandalous, leondeia. And when the time came for the Revision of the Constitution - because sometimes they are hypocritical and what we are hearing - and the JRC tabled a proposal to abolish Article 107 of the Constitution that gives these scandalous privileges to investment from abroad and in logistical capital, then SYRIZA and New Democracy and the Change Movement at best "done the duck". They didn't say anything. Nothing at all. To abolish the specific article of the Constitution, which is essentially contrary to other articles of the Constitution. So we have a contradiction in the Constitution. And it is confirmed that in this case the Constitution in the main words protects the rights of workers and the people, the right to work - what work are we talking about, when there is this unemployment rate, when there is underemployment, when there are contract workers? - but in practice what is protected in every way is capitalist property, that is, it protects the right of the bourgeoisie to exploit the wealthy resources of our country for the benefit of the workers themselves. From this point of view, therefore, what we are stressing is that this convention is a characteristic and particularly revealing picture of the system which all of you, the rest of you, support the capitalist system, in other words. From this point of view, it confirms that any investment and any development process carried out in terms of softness at the expense of our country's mineral wealth and natural resources is carried out at the expense of the workers, at the expense of meeting people's needs and, finally, at the expense of protecting the environment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u127	And we thank Mr. Karathanasopoulos. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is at least disappointing that both in the debate in the committee and in this debate today - and I fear that it will continue until the end of the procedure - it is reproducing a scene of tension, with expressions of infidelity, a violation of duty, a scandal, an illegality, a scene of tension which is reminiscent of a continuation of the scene that we have experienced in the last two weeks and obviously does not allow a genuine political debate on the different political perspectives and the starting point that each party sees the particular issue that we are discussing, even on the issue that has been raised about the unconstitutionality of this convention. Why am I saying that? Because there is another political disagreement on this very serious issue, another is the artificial challenge of tension to create impressions and another thing if the convention that we are finally discussing is in constitutional legitimacy or not. We are indeed talking about a contract that is heterogeneous in favour of the investor, a contract drawn up by concise procedures, a contract which has many problematic elements and raises a reasonable question as to whether the conditions and conditions required for sustainable and sustainable development, as provided for in Article 24, are ensured. We have developed the strong disagreements with regard to the content of the contract whether, for example, a mild environmental footprint is ensured, whether jobs are safeguarded or secured in the local economy, in the public interest, and, of course, whether there are historical conditions for development in the region. There are a lot of questions about whether the objectives of investment will be met, whether there will be a return to local society, if these many new jobs are actually created. Mostly there are a lot of questions if the public is pleading such an agreement with the gun to the head. There are many questions, however, which will be answered in the future and, in addition, the ineffectiveness of the measures provided for in the Convention, particularly those relating to environmental protection, are judged each time in practice and in scope. We therefore say in advance that these measures will not be effective. However, this does not mean that they become automatic and unconstitutional. We must admit that, in fact, several of the provisions move within the limits of constitutionality. However, we cannot say that a direct and clear violation of the Constitution is documented, as both SYRIZA and Mera25 argues. The objection of non-constitutionality, which is said in Article 24, may seem justified, in view of a political view, of the Constitution, but with the grammar interpretation of that article, because the Government, as in the case of the consultation of the draft law, is confined to respecting its minimum formal obligations. As the bodies were called upon to listen to bodies without any possibility of correcting, supplementing or changing the bill, but the Rules of Parliament were respected, without, of course, having any objection, and with Article 24, the obligation of the State to protect the natural environment is respected, of course, by the hybrid procedure chosen by the Government, the independent environmental controller. However, we cannot say that a pure legal basis is supposed to thrive on this objection of unconstitutionality. With regard to the overall procedure, which is being affected in relation to Parliament as an anti-constitutional, the report of the Scientific Agency - the former President referred before - says that it is a common practice that has been applied in the past with a large number of legislation and the period of SYRIZA governments. It is a process which obviously does not give the possibility of corrections, for changes, for supplements, for substantial legislative work. On the other hand, of course - and this is a point that has been discussed and said before - it leaves open the possibility of a judicial infringement of administrative acts arising from any condition of the contract excluded from the provisions in force or laying down in person the rules governing third parties. But that does not mean that the procedure is unconstitutional. The major political issue for us is whether they are guaranteed and whether they will thrive and implement the objectives of investment, and of course, for us, it is also a major political issue that is chosen to discuss and ratify this convention by means of an incomplete consultation procedure, which raises serious reactions not only by the actors but also by the political parties as well. We therefore attach importance to the political issues that exist in the convention we are discussing, a contract with too many asterisks, but it does not seem to be a direct and clear violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u129	And we thank Mr. Katrin. He has the floor now that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Panos Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard before our colleague Mr Ploiris some mental shapes that I would describe as legal wisdom. However, we have not heard any arguments against the claims made for unconstitutionality. On the margins, of course, Mr Plouris, you have said many more, as your area has recently been used to in this way as a policy. I would therefore say to you that you mentioned this, but also to your group as a whole: if you really believe that the Qualified Opposition consciously with its attitude is dispersing the coronary and so has us in a lockdown and pandemic regime, you should go to the prosecutor. Why don't you do it? Isn't that what your conscience imposes on you? In any case, let us be serious. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of infidelity has nothing to do with the issues of constitutionality. It is deeper because the documentation available and the specific references within the contract itself clearly speak of resignation on the part of the public and the company of any claims. So they actually recognize that there were claims. The dead out-of-courts, without any legal status, are recognised as fundamental requirements and therefore recognised as a question of compromise between the Greek State and the company. So the question that is now being raised on the basis of the provisions of Article 100 of the Constitution on the Legal Council of the State is: Where is the opinion of the Legal Council of State? There are excellent advisors to the Council of State, the Ministry. Some people I met. I don't know if they're the same. What formation of the State’s Legal Council, then, has resulted in the ex-posts of 2018, which were sent by the company after the rejection of the specific permits it had made in 2016 on my service, which you, following the decision of the Council of State at the beginning of 2020, made in 2021 to legislate and tell us that they are strong? In other words, you recognize the company's normalization at the time, its distraction, because it was open, because it had violated its contractual obligations and you are coming at the moment and you say that I "save you". No, Minister, it's not like that. This is where the issue of duty violations and infidelity arises. Because when the company itself violates the fundamental condition of the previous contract, which was the verticalisation of production, the metallurgy, in a safe way - and has not done so for several consecutive years - it submits applications for authorisation for the metallurgy in 2016. The Council of State considers that these are incompatible with its obligations, i.e. it does not demonstrate the so-called ‘lash smelting’ that it is applicable, environmentally friendly, and you come to tell us ‘no cat or damage’. On the contrary, you should do the same, demanding the company the foreshadows, those which the Greek State did not have from the non-institutionalisation of production and therefore the lack of value added in the country, which would increase public revenues and could somehow balance large environmental costs and justify the then reduced initial price. These are the issues. From there on, Mr. Ploiris, is the ban on changing legislation something constitutional? Because that is what the convention tells us here, it prohibits any change in legislation. In addition, does the ban on newly modified GDP have elements which the company will consider to be economically burdening, but also on combining the presence of the independent environmental auditor, which is its own choice, do they actually not undermine environmental policy in the country? Are they not directly opposed to the spirit and to the letter of Article 24 of the Constitution? What are we talking about? But of course you have shown how you mean the presence of the role of the public and the state, not only in relation to the environmental issues where you are actually putting an environmental inspection into use, a well-known inspection, putting a protector above - most popular, Mr President, you understand what I am saying - the independent environmental auditor who pays him, but you have shown it elsewhere. You've shown it in the employment inspection that you abolished it as an arbitrary existence. You have shown what your perception of the state is: State only exists as regards the issues of repression. And as the KIC's best friend used to say, you're the ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. He now has the floor, in his capacity as Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, because it is not my wish to abuse, because I have been placed on legal questions as an answer, I would like to make only two points - three points to what has been said, first of all to the honourable former President of this House. The report to which it refers is the formal report, when it comes to contracts, because it refers to the legislative framework that exists and the Scientific Service of Parliament never enters into the substance of the conventions and cannot enter. I therefore believe that your reference, as has been done, is inappropriate to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I now come to the political side. Here, basically, the arguments we are hearing, Mr President, are not arguments which have to do with legality on the basis of the Constitution. And because it was previously said by a parliamentary representative that I made use of the laws that exist, I made use of the laws that exist, which have been found constitutional and which exist on the very basis of the Constitution. I listen to the criticism of the Communist Party of Greece, which tells you that I disagree with the essence of these articles of the Constitution and that in fact there are always these possibilities. The criticism made by you is essentially political criticism and because the same arguments have been heard at times, a reasonable framework is created for why - and I have not heard any reference from all the Members who have spoken - the Council of State in a number of decisions has judged the administration to be illegal. And acts of your own administration. So the original interpreter of the Constitution, which is the Greek courts and, in particular, the Council of State, in a series of decisions on matters which you yourself have put here, has been judged by the Constitutional Court. Now, the debate on constitutionality is also a legal debate, a compulsory one, Mr President of the Greek Solution. We are only in here to talk in general about what someone imagines to be the Constitution and what is constitutional. Constitutionality is judged at two levels. The first level in this House, where we have given the answers that there is no problem of constitutionality. The other level is obviously anyone who considers and has a legitimate interest in going to the relevant courts, in order to see what laws are to come out, which the administration must respect. Mr. Skourletis, what you mentioned is quite different. And here at least we all have to agree. Getting SYRIZA up directly and blaming - beware - the Minister here that he has done infidelity and a breach of duty, that - I beg your pardon - is not a political criticism, but you have now entered the Criminal Code. You are Members of the Greek Parliament and you say that the particular Minister who signs and brings this bill does infidelity and breach of duty. Therefore, once your criticism is not political, if you are consistent, you should also do the actions that are defined and finally see here who has damaged or benefited the Greek public. Because who has benefited from it, we know from the signing of this contract, as the Minister has presented it, but who has harmed it fortunately, we will never know because, with the unilateral resignation that the company is doing, we will not have the consequences that may have been created by your own actions and omissions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u133	And we close the process of objections of unconstitutionality with the position of Minister Skreka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I will be laconic, because I will be able to analyse them and submit all these documents, which are of interest to Members, later on in my speech. Just to put things in place - our representative has said it very well - I would like to ask his dear colleague what exactly he is saying. Because he and other colleagues have said so since his resignation, that the offence of breach of duty and infidelity is allegedly being committed. And I'm asking, what do you say? To understand correctly, you say that it constitutes an infringement of duty and the offence of infidelity is committed, because with Article 11, which is included in the agreement that we have brought to the vote by the House, the Greek State is exempted from the company's claims, due to the possible injurious behaviour of the Greek State against the company, as decided by the Council of State, multiple times. I ask: What does it mean to be unbelievable? Is the offence of infidelity not to cause damage, financial damage, public health, decisions and actions of its officials, whether they are employees or their representatives? I ask: we introduce Article 11, which exempts the public from any claim of the company against the public. Does the company have any claims? It does. How do we know, we've been told? Oh, no. They sent out to you and other co-legislative ministers in 2018. They notified you of their claims. Within the claim it refers to where it is based.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u135	Does the public have any claims?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u136	I'll tell my speech and file all the documents. The claims made in specific decisions of the Council of State are being raised and not just. How many are these claims? Hundreds of millions of euros. Not to mention the amount, you'll read it when I file the extrajudicial. We and you, with your vote, will relieve the Greek State of the danger in future of the company coming and asking for compensation due to the injurious behaviour of the Greek State during your government's term of office. And I'm asking, is that a violation of duty by us? I'll ask you something else. Say that we did not include this article and the devil breaks his leg and the company comes after some time, resorts to the Greek courts or arbitration courts and wins, through this procedure, some kind of compensation. Do you have a responsibility because of your behaviour to damage the public in that case? I'm asking you. You know the answer very well. So don't mention and repeat like a broken cassette that here is inflicted infidelity, a breach of duty. None of this applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u137	Minister, does the government have any demands?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Skourletis, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u139	Mr Colleague, with this agreement the Greek State is relieved of anything that could be caused by the company's claims as they refer to its externalities. It's very simple. Just accept it. Let's go further to discuss the substance of the issue, which is growth, jobs and, finally, no investment in Greece. I'll talk to you in my speech. We are one of the last countries to attract foreign investments. Cyprus has a 3-fold amount of accumulated foreign investment in the country than Greece. I'll tell you the numbers. We're number 63 in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. The procedure has been completed on objections of non-constitutionality and in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents, as established by the positions of parliamentary representatives, the objections of non-constitutionality are rejected. We continue with the list of colleagues and call on the New Democracy MP, Mr. Yannis Loverdos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest since this morning to the position of all colleagues from all the parties and I have indeed been impressed by some of the things I have heard, because I have relatively good memory and I have very much experience. I thought I was back in the past. I don't know exactly French. Deja vu, isn't it? Like I've heard of this twenty times in the last thirty years for Halkidiki's gold. The exact same words: a colonial contract. The colonial contract was also the "TVX" which went bankrupt because this contract was never implemented. I listened with great interest and what my good friend and respected President of the Greek Solution said, Mr. Velopoulos. He talked about vaccinations and it is because today, as you may have been informed, we will unfortunately have a negative record of cases, which is painful for all of us. Despite what has been said, vaccinations go very well in the country. It is done in an exemplary way, and that is what we must finally understand. And thankfully, people are consenting and coming and making vaccination. By the way, I - Mr Velopoulos is not here - made the vaccine of AstraZeneca, the first dose. As you can see, I'm fine in my health. I've lost a pound, not the vaccine. I'm too strong without any blood clots. So let no one exaggerate. The virus actually sticks everywhere. It sticks to the means of transport, sticks to the supermarkets, sticks to the marches and the gatherings, sticks to the churches, sticks to where there is a crowd. Where there's a crowd, it sticks, it's transmitted. That's no reason to close all the activities, because we can't. We have imposed one, unfortunately, hard lockdown, which is not partly implemented by the world, so we cannot limit the disease, along with the mutations that are appalling. We are living the climax of an unprecedented pandemic. In this unprecedented pandemic, we all have to be patient and be more responsible. And there is no party exploitation when we face such a major, unprecedented event for our country. We all have to be responsible. I understand there are many issues on which the Left, SYRIZA and opposition parties can focus. One of these issues is the contract with the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS" which we are debating today. It's not a new issue, is it? Some people talk, obviously younger, because they don't know it. It's been over thirty years, don't forget. In Greece the governments have decided over time to exploit the gold that exists in Halkidiki and Thrace. There have been terrible reactions from the opposition, especially from the Left. They thought these conventions were an assignment, they are colonial, that we become slaves to strangers. These arguments which we are hearing today have been heard so many times over the last thirty years, infinitely. Of course there's up - down. SYRIZA, when in the Opposition, supported Halkidiki rebels. When he came to power, he changed his mind. Then he changed again, he did not know how to manage it very well and now finally returns to the era before 2015. I hope that we will not return to the extremes that we lived before 2015 with organised gangs of trumpets and bahalakidians who had even retired the international bahalakidians and had brought Halkidiki to the limits of a minimal civil war. This must not be done and we will not allow it to happen. From there, however, I hear in this part of the sacred space of the Greek Parliament that Mr. Viliardos, the dear friend from the Greek Solution with Mr. Arsenis, has agreed on the fact that he is a colonialist! What we heard! We heard it reminds of colonialism in the 19th century. I, too, remembered the slaves who carried from Africa, so he says, carry them, drag them with chains of workers in Halkidiki. We heard from Mr. Heta that they have been Lavrio's servants since Pericles. So we've heard such exaggerations that don't go into the world anymore. There is a real truth I will agree with. Left is against investment, Greek and foreign. He wants it all to be done by the state. Fair enough, that's her point of view. On the contrary, we believe in private investment, whether they are Greek or foreign. Mr. Velopoulos, I don't know exactly where he is, somewhere in the middle, I guess. It's only for Greek investment. If they're foreign, they're bad. If it's Greek, they're good. Okay, his opinion. And she's legitimate. That is why we want to attract investment. From the pandemic I hope that we will go out at a very high cost, at a very great price, in the coming months, as we all hope. The next day is a difficult day for our country, because the next day we have to manage a very difficult economic situation, and to stand on our feet we need investment. This is the view and perception of the Government of New Democracy and of Mr Mitsotakis personally, who, along with everything he has heard, serves the view, as I do, that by reducing taxation, investing privately, bypassing bureaucracy and, above all, able to develop this place above and beyond ideas and strangles, the country can go forward. That is our view. You may not like it, ladies and gentlemen of the Left. That's your right. When you come back to power again, you can stop what you say. We will move on to our programme and implement it, because for us above all it is our country and democracy. We will strengthen the institutions and strengthen the economy. By the way, because I have heard Mr Velopoulos and others about elections, don't be afraid. There's not going to be elections now. The elections will be held at the end of the four-year period. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a responsible leader who does not play with the institutions. The end of the four-year period will come and again New Democracy will, with the work it has done then, regain the election and Kyriakos Mitsotakis will become Prime Minister again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, could I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u144	Here you go, Mr. Heta, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u145	One minute, Mr President, why didn't Mr. Loverdos leave a man from the Greek Solution, he told us all! I'd like a minute to answer what he said. First, if there's anyone who might be afraid of the election...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u146	Look, now you're having trouble with me. If you answer anyone who says anything, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u147	He referred to the party, the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u149	He falsified the president's name, falsified my so-called...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u150	Anyway, finish it up. But here we will not be judging every Member of Parliament. You are a Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u151	I'm not just a MP. I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u152	There have been opinions from your President. There are opinions from...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u153	But what we have to say is not to falsify what we say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u154	No, I can't give you the reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u155	They're falsifying what's said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u156	There is no personal matter to say that you are entitled to this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u157	He made a personal reference to the President, to me, to the Vice-President, Mr. Villardo, to everyone, and he falsified what we said. Give me a minute. I would have spoken now. I won't need a minute. We didn't say, Mr. Loverdo, that whoever's doing the vaccine will get a blood clot. We said there were many incidents and there is a degree of risk. You're okay, you're extremist health, and we're happy about that. Secondly, if there is someone who might be afraid of elections, it's probably you, because you see exactly what is going to happen in the country. We're not afraid at all. Whenever you do, we're ready. Thirdly, the people of business - because our party does not have professional politicians, Mr Loverdo, but people of the successful business, our President, but also the MPs - listen to them. They know something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u158	You've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u159	Let's go later now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Heta, no, we're not going any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u161	You didn't tell us in your word...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u162	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u163	... what the Greek state wins.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u164	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u165	And also...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Heta!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u167	To testify for the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u168	Respect me. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u169	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u170	Please, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u171	We are in favour of the private sector and the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u172	SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Malama has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u173	...not for the sale, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u174	Look at something. You cannot come in every time and comment on what each Member says. You are a parliamentary representative. Parliamentary representatives answer key issues and do not comment. Alas! Then it wouldn't end any process. Something has been said by your President, something has been said on the other hand, this cannot continue. Mrs Malama, you have the floor with the request to be within the time, because the time is 14.00 hours and we have now entered the list. It is a long time, and we have a roll-call vote. Please be warm, then, in seven minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u175	I will try, Mr President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, because silence is not gold, let us be honest. We have in front of us an investment that's only gold. The reality is a company which has been active in Halkidiki for seventeen years, and we do not know what it pays the state and whether this investment is loss-making or not. It is uncontrolled, and we are told by the mining company itself, but also by you, Minister. In the Competition Committee you stated that the company’s State revenues were 460 million. The company reports 395 million in its memorandum. You declare 600 million of exports and 907 million of the company in its memorandum. Thousands of fifty directly-to-direct jobs, you have already stressed it - and you said a thousand and fifty-seven jobs in the company. You talked about 22 million corporate responsibility and the company 24 million. Millions go and come. They're coming in millions! But that's what the company says, and you say other things. Where's the truth and where's the lie, Minister? Let's blame who's a deceit, why are we confused? We will, however, help the Halkidiki people to judge him. I would like to submit to the minutes the first document for today, the public letter of the CEO of "ELLINIKI FRYS" on 20 October 2020, which says that "The profitability of ELDORADO" allows it to finance its subsidiaries for potential injurious uses...", referring to the fact that in recent years the "ELENIKI CRYSOS" according to the information she presents, seems to "introduced" in the commonly called. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The Government, therefore, rather than checking whether the ‘Hellenic FRAMEWORK’ is actually ‘introduced’, exempts it from tax obligations. Here's what Article 19 of the agreement says: "The state accepts that the company is duty-free as dividends its profits abroad." I am presenting to you in the Minutes the reply of the Deputy Minister of Finance when we asked him to present to us in Parliament what the company has paid for taxes all these years in Halkidiki. In the reply, it states: 'With regard to the information requested, these are covered by the tax confidentiality'. We are therefore informing the Secretary-General that this information, which is supposed to be covered by tax confidentiality, is publicly available in the General Commercial Register and can be traced very easily. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And we ask you: why don't you say that the Hellenic FRAMEWORK has millions of loans? Why don't you say that the highest amount of these loans is intra-corporate? What does it mean when a company borrows from its mother? Why all of you do not understand that an intra-corporate transaction erods Greece's tax base? A very serious issue, too, is that of work. How many are the employees in the company? What is the so-called ‘non-wage costs’ it pays? Since the company is not paying taxes, then one wonders what it pays for employers' contributions. Do you know what the Minister of Labour at the time answered our question about parliamentary control? I'll give you the document in the Minutes. The Minister for Labour said he does not have the power to answer the question of how many people are finally working in the "ELLENIKIKI CHRYS". Why don't you say that there are mining fronts, where they've been introduced as subcontracting companies from abroad and now only contracting workers are recruited? Really, don't you know that? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to focus on the most crucial issue, the issue of the damage that mining will cause the environment. People need to know that under Article 15 of the Convention two possibilities are given to the mining company. One is not to produce pure metals, i.e. not to produce metallurgy. The second option, however, is to move to metallurgy by whatever method it wants, even with extensive cyanosis. And because many will hurry to say that this is our interpretation and that there is no case of cynicality, I would like to announce one of the elements, which has arisen from the last environmental audits carried out by the SYRIZA government. I think that is one of the reasons why the state is abolishing its powers of environmental control with this agreement. They say, then, that the environmental auditors on the cyanide issue were found to be at a specific test for the Black Petroleum enrichment plant the use of forty - six thousand nine hundred and eighty - eighty - kilograms of chemical reagents, of which seven thousand seven hundred twenty - five kilograms of sodium cyanide. In Olympiad was used a hundred and fifty - eight thousand four hundred thirty - one pounds of chemical reagents and sixty - one thousand four hundred two pounds of cyanide. Therefore, the danger of cyanide is and will be constantly above the head of Halkidiki. With this contract no one will be able to control the company for how it manages its mining operations. I would also like to mention what the government does not say, but the contract that it signed is called in. The "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" is not going to throw money on any new investment in the mining area. That's why he's looking for a strategic investor. This is what the articles of the agreement say in public, "ELDORADO". That is why the public is committed to giving tax immunity to any fund that comes to throw its money into the crater in Skouries. We challenge you once again - even now - to come out and submit to Parliament's minutes the State's revenues from this investment and, furthermore, to let us know whether the mining water is male, because I would like to close with the water quality control data from the Scientific Committee, to which the company itself entrusted control. The committee, therefore, in its latest 2020 report, states on page 17 that: "On the Bashdakis stream..." - what drowned Olympiad twice in 2019 - "... the presence of arsenic and lead is important with excesses throughout the bed." For the creek of Kokinolakka there is an increase in this particular, manganese and nickel. For the stream of Blackolacca, the excesses are observed in the values of concentrations of male and lead. What else do you want to tell us? Do you not realize that mining is poisoning water and at the same time any other productive and economic activity in the region?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u176	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u177	I would like to present to you, at this point, the protest letters from more than forty bodies from Ierissos, Uranoupolis, Olympiada, Nea Roda, Ammouliani, the Army, the Great Virgin, with which you are invited to get this agreement back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u178	And that's it, Mrs. Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u179	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm a Halkidiki congressman. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u180	I know. This does not mean that there is special treatment. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u181	In Halkidiki, over fifty thousand people work in summer tourism and related professions. Many thousands of people work every year in agricultural production and green olives. We repeat that tourism is linked to the primary sector. Tourism demand will be reduced. The investments will be reduced. In other words, the multipliers of the economy will be reduced, and that means at least a thousand two hundred jobs will be lost in the region over the next two years. A 10% reduction in tourism across Halkidiki means immediately - immediately ten thousand jobs less all over Halkidiki. Would you ever go to a mining area to take a vacation, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u182	Yeah. I go every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u183	Yeah? I'll call you for free. Come on. I'll be waiting for you this summer. In the Halkidiki CSCE, however, mining activity does not occupy 5% either. Why, then, are you presenting this investment so large and traverse? Why aren't you next to the thousands of professionals who pay taxes and social security contributions every year and are you donating a multinational tax-based company abroad? We do not expect you to answer us, of course, but these answers you will have to give them to the citizens of Halkidiki either you or you do not want to, because this contract is the time of a proclaimed death for tourism in Halkidiki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Mr President, would you like to take the floor now? After wishing you many years for your nominal celebration, I invite you to the Step. The Chief of Officership and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President, and your wishes. Let us hope that we can soon all celebrate our joys, our holidays and have health, because I think this is the most important wish one can give these days. And since I started from the wish of health, I cannot start my position with reference to the dramatic situation that hospitals have experienced once again, especially the Attica hospitals, where the situation has really escaped. I think a year after the pandemic began, we are experiencing the worst phase of pandemic. The moments passed by our health workers and fellow citizens in hospitals throughout the country, but especially in Attica, are moments when we have never lived before. However, I fear that even worse than these truly shocking moments is the fact that doctors have been found in front of a hugely unresolved moral dilemma: to choose the people who will give them the opportunity to fight to maintain their lives. That's where we are today. I fear, however, that even worse than that is the image that the government is giving today, a government that should feel the pain and anxiety of the citizens and not seek easy ways to get away from responsibilities, a government that should at least know what it is doing, should have a plan to deal with this difficult situation. I fear that not only the picture, but the reality is that the government and the Prime Minister themselves are in a panic situation. The image of at least you're emitting is a picture of absolute paralysis. For our part, before we criticise you, because you will be criticised, as you have great responsibilities, we ask you to be serious. The tubes are over six hundred. When the tubes were two hundred, you decided to close everything. Lockdown lasted for five months. How effective this lockdown was is evidenced by the fact that today, five months later, the intubated ones are in six hundred. That's the positivity of just six thousand forty-four molecular tests yesterday. One wonders how it is possible at the time of the peaking of the health crisis and the spread of the virus into the community - at least in the region of Attica - for only six thousand molecular tests to be carried out. It was 12 thousand four hundred and fifty nine together with the rapids. And, of course, when one sees it as a result of only cases, he says: “Okay, we had a thousand and fifty cases yesterday. So we can discuss how we will proceed in front of the next day of relaxation." However, the degree of positiveness in these just 12 thousand four hundred and fifty-nine tests carried out yesterday - molecular and rapid - was 12.3%. It is the highest degree of positiveity since the beginning of the pandemic, which means, to tell just Greek, that if we were done yesterday, we would have more than three thousand cases. And of course these recurring events will announce that yesterday the committee will come together to announce measures of relaxation, when we have the peak of the pandemic of accession, a pandemic that doesn't seem to be culminating yet, and in a few hours' time to announce the announcements, relocate them for Friday, all do not show an image of a government that knows where it is going and where it is, which has a plan to deal with this emergency situation. I repeat that the crucial issue right now is that the situation in Attica’s hospitals is not just marginal. The hospitals are in a breakdown, and I'll explain what I mean. At the moment we are talking, there are more than a hundred fellow citizens hand-written in single beds - not within intensive care units - on the EKA lists. They are waiting, that is, though where a bed will be empty so that they can be nursed within the intensive care unit, not ten, twenty and thirty, but a hundred thirty. Last night, according to the information announced by the Secretary-General of OENGE, we had a hundred and a half enclosed in the EAW waiting lists. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] What does that practically mean? This practically means that these people who are, of course, mechanically supported for their breath by laptops, outside intensive care units, every time they pass, are at risk of losing their lives - while their lives could have been saved - because they do not have the medical support, which is intended to have within an intensive care unit, where the intensifier is above them, and it can regulate, depending on the indications of the machinery, the patient's vital organs. And these people don't stand there one and two and three hours. There may be days left because the system has been muddled. The Director of the General Hospital, Mr Antonopoulos, said yesterday: 'We choose patients'. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. A really touching intervention took place yesterday afternoon, the pulmonary - intensifier of General State Nice, Mrs Constantopoulos, on a television show, which said: ‘Why are you bringing us in this position? It is very difficult for us as scientists, as doctors, as people to enter this position to choose who will die and who will live." 'Shouldn't' - he wondered - 'normally there should be the way and the infrastructure so that all patients take the opportunity?' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Patients report incidents. Because, okay, this picture cannot be kept hidden as much as if your concern at these hours is how you deal with police, beating citizens, or how we celebrate the two hundred years next week, with beautiful ceremonies and the presence of foreign leaders and parades. This picture cannot be hidden, because it is about almost every Greek family that is struggling. And it's not just coronary patients. When he has shaved the system, when there is currently no ICU for both CIVID patients, but for patients who are not CIVID cases and are suffering, for example, from a stroke, they have a heart disease and need to be nursed in an intensive care unit, and they cannot find a bed. Dramatic, too, the story of a man who, after a stroke, remains for eleven days at the Jamaica Hospital, in the pathological wing, intacted outside of intensity, and the letter sent by his son, saying that "my father is not a waiting number" and that "I talk about him while he is alive, knowing that he has almost lost his life" that could be dealt with. It is what we say one of the cases that could be dealt with. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And it's not the only case. And another case, at the “Thriasio” Hospital, five days off intensively intersected. I'm putting this down for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] This is the picture today in public hospitals. And of course, the crucial question is why we have reached this point. Was it inevitable to happen? A year now, wasn't there the possibility? After a week ago, Friday, the Prime Minister came to this here at the Step and told us: we did great! We are the champions in the face of pandemic! I am sorry, I wonder if you do not realize that you have a responsibility for this situation. Because all this time you've done creative statistics on the data on beds in intensive care units. You told us that you've reached record levels of beds in intensive care units, that you've reached a thousand two hundred, then you said a thousand three hundred, now I don't know how many you say. But the reality - and the reality is merciless - is that all this time that your government's basic obligation is to tackle pandemic, except to bless your beards and celebrate, you have done little. Because only two hundred and two hundred fifty beds are set in the system in public hospitals. That's the truth!- Oh, my God! And you're misled by creative figures on such a crucial issue. In December 2015, we received four hundred and thirty - eight multivalent ICU beds. In July 2019 we delivered five hundred sixty - eight, plus thirty. From July 2019 to March 2020, when the pandemic began, not only did you not increase a single bed, but the beds fell by thirteen. And the pandemic comes and there was indeed a mobilization. I would like to say, however, that thanks to private donations to the House, which went to the donation of fifty beds to the Salvation Hospital, there were these two hundred and fifty beds. These two hundred - two hundred fifty beds you called them six hundred joining the number and beds that you had before you took command in military hospitals seventy beds, in private hospital treatment units with two hundred sixty beds, but useless. Why useless? Because there is no medical staff in order to be able to operate these beds. And we are right to call about the ordering of these clinics that you should have done yesterday, but at the same time also the need for them to be staffed. There were also before the pandemic of about one hundred eighty beds in public hospitals, heart surgery, burn and wound units, postoperative units, increased care units. So, in beds: Seventy in military hospitals, one hundred and eighty in increased care units and postoperative units in public hospitals and two hundred sixty in private clinics, make us five hundred ten. These five hundred 10 beds Mr. Mitsotakis constantly adds them to the number of beds he supposedly created! Creative accounting even in the matter of life and death! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The lies, however, have close legs and, above all, have close legs when your own officials themselves reveal your lies, that is, when Mr. Petsas as a Government spokesman during a period of rest in relation to the pandemic recession, declared last summer "thank you did not hear SYRIZA spending the Greek people's money to make beds in intensive care units! That's what Mr. Petchas said. And Mr. Gerapitris, in an outbreak of a rhetoric that goes beyond logic, told us that if we had more ICUs, we would have statistics and more dead, and so what do we want most of the ICUs! And all this time, ladies and gentlemen, you have not hired a permanent doctor or a permanent nurse! On the contrary, you hired permanent in public, a thousand five hundred special guards untrained to beat the world that is protesting and a thousand more - now you're going - for the university police. So, what are your priorities? You have a responsibility for what is happening today! You have a great responsibility for what is happening today! In any case, I do not know - and I repeat - whether the main problem is that we have a government that has failed to manage the pandemic or that we have a government that is constantly lying to us. The pandemic is also riding government officials at the same time, instead of beating your head and working - we do not blame you if you make mistakes, you could also make mistakes, but bend your head and work to save people's lives - what are you doing? "We did it all perfectly, we are winners, we have fewer dead than in other countries" and instead of working, we organize party and baptism, writing in your old shoes the laws you are voting for and the people who are closed in their homes. What message do you send to the citizens? I am not going to mention - and I am not going to mention - what concerns the image of the Prime Minister himself, but recently, at least at least the disgusting image of Parnitha and Ikaria should have given you a vigilance so that you can stop constantly showing the same image outwards. So, what kind of message did you send Tsiknobert the day before yesterday when he set up a three-knived party with his own party and danced without a working mask? But it's not just that picture, it's also how it is managed. Instead of ethics giving up the Arkumanias, what did you do? You went and found out from these fifteen people who were contracted and you went to get them out of the contract. But when it was known that the rest were close associates of the Arkumanias himself, the persecution of the four stopped. I am right to say that the persecution of the four has stopped, because the problem is not the closest partners of the Arkumanias and how much more the four contractors. The problem is the same head of the EGE he's hiding. And why is he hiding? Hey, since the Prime Minister himself has the nerve to violate the laws, how will he impose them on his partners? And then comes Mr. Georgiadis, who decided to become the godfather of the pandemic. All right, worthy! They're worthy, aren't they? Awesome, alas, and I'm sure he'll be a very good godfather, he'll send the lamp. But you know what? Do you know how many thousands of our fellow citizens have posted both baptisms and marriages and have they not been able to attend the funerals of their own people? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How does the Minister do that? Why are you laughing, Mr. Screka? Is that funny? It's not funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u186	I didn't laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u187	And what's Mr. Georgiadis doing? Not only does it work on its own, but it also presents us with an old card - this is the most challenging of all - which reveals the agnosticity, the unorthodoxness of those who compiled it - on the foot obviously - by speaking of the 'Dionysian Aeropagite' - which we dressed from the air - but that is not the subject. The government must answer officially if this paper is true or is forged. If that paper is true, show us how many more such assurances for an exceptional religious ceremony you have given, allegedly violating the laws you are voting on. If it's fake, Mr. Georgiadis must now testify to his resignation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We'll wait for answers. The only thing for sure, however, is that over and above the issue of exceptional government officials and government friends a violation of measures which cannot, of course, be violated by any other citizen, there is another major issue, moral, perhaps even legal. The papers say that Mr. Georgiadis baptized his child head of an independent authority. What independent authority? President of the Independent Authority for Public Contracts. I'm saying, if that's not true, she's not going to make it up to her. Look, there's a major issue here. What is the major issue? The major issue is this: that the Minister for Development has the responsibility of the General Secretariat for Trade, which operates as a central contracting authority. In other words, this President of the Independent Public Procurement Authority will be called upon to live for him! - to check and be inadmissible with the service of his best man. You know what? The Public Service Code - Article 36 - for a public official simple - notice! - says that it is prevented from dealing with a matter if he, or his wife, or relatives from blood or from stress up to the third degree, or a person with whom he is of special friendship has a manifest interest in the outcome of the case. A simple public employee! The senior high-ranking public minister, who is the President of the Independent Public Procurement Authority, does not have a coma? Is he staying in his place? Do you not judge that there is a major ethical and legal issue? Or did you bring us back the buttons, the government of the buttons and the bucket, to manage public procurement and public money at best? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are major issues for us and we will be waiting for answers. In any case, your behaviour insults every citizen and your inadequacy endangers the health of every citizen. You are a government that over recent months - especially in recent months - has lost control and done three things, exaggerates those who criticise, threatens those who should protect, causes those who should inspire confidence. And of course, being back at point zero five months later is no accident. So I ask you today, even now will you admit your failure? Will you admit that you have imposed measures on the Greek people who were unnecessarily and that, where you had to take measures, you did not take measures? Will you admit that the so-called smart measures were stupid measures, not smart, when you had the citizens on weekends go home from 18.00, creating a crowded Saturdays in supermarkets and not let them do gymnastics and jogging or walk two out of their homes, the same time that daily media image is a chaotic picture, at the same time that you did not prescribe the tests, at the same time that you did not take measures in the workplace? Will you admit that the choice of the accordion-type lockdown was the greatest delusion and the biggest error you've ever made? Admitteding your failure would perhaps be a very first start to restore confidence in the citizens. Because a government that cannot have elementary confidence in the citizens cannot manage such a critical situation. And in any case, stop throwing responsibilities elsewhere, stop lying. Even the day before yesterday, Mr Mitsotakis came up with this Stepma to convince us that for everything we have seen in recent times with the outbreak - you know, when we closed down, on November 12, we had three thousand three hundred cases and now, 9 March, after five months, we have three thousand hundred and eighty one cases - and, of course, not having the ethicity to apologize or say "we have failed", that it is all the fault of SYRIZA, because it tolerates or supports citizens' protests. In fact, he testified in the Minutes and a discussion paper, a non-real investigation. It was not a survey of the University of Hubolt, as he said, but a worthwhile survey of two major researchers who sat down and studied the impact and impact of involving citizens in increasing cases in demonstrations of negative measures, that is to say, citizens who do not wear a mask, who do not take any protection measures, because they do not believe that the virus exists. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis concealed this, by moving the report here and saying: 'You are to blame for everything'. Obviously, I was not in the hands of answering him because I had not read this investigation. But I have sat down and found out and noted two very interesting points - and I will submit to the Minutes - in this report, where the two researchers say, in fact, that at the big gatherings, where protesters who go by keeping protection measures and wearing masks do not contribute to increasing cases. In fact, they argue that the study examines the impact of the Black Lives Matter concentrations, i.e. the concentrations against police violence that have been embraced by the entire democratic world in the United States of America, through the pandemic, and found that these demonstrations, in which participants largely complied with the containment strategies, have no or only a marginal effect on COVID infections -19. They conclude, of course, that the right of citizens to protest is the cornerstone of modern democracies. At another point they say: The study estimates that after the negative demonstrations, the rates of contamination in the areas of origin of the negative ones have significantly increased. In fact, it points out that the negative persons were moved by buses and made comparisons of the rates of pollution in areas used by buses and in areas not used. The conclusion is that in areas where there was a bus journey in the protests of the negative and bus stops the incidents increased to 35.9%. So even what Mr. Mitsotakis brought us here to move our finger was to disperse some news, as if we were not able to read it, as if the citizens were foolish and they would take what he told us in this House and swallow it intolerable. I put it in the Minutes, showing another picture. This image is today and shows the crowding of citizens to get into a metro car. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tridras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Yesterday the Government Representative once again accused more than a hundred and fifty protests were organised in the last two months in the country. I tell you that every day we have over a hundred and fifty such types of crowding events in a closed space inside the subway. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And this risk is a risk that you accepted and took in full knowledge of the consequences. So stop throwing your responsibilities elsewhere and at last take on your own great responsibilities, because you are ruling. Finally, he was serious, because the country is going through a very critical turning point and I honestly believe that the last thing you could do today is not continue to legislate like nothing is happening, but to realise that in this critical turning point instead of splitting and attacking your political opponents, instead of polarising, instead of enacting provoking provocative legislation that is right to find a complex contrary to anti-politicism, you should ask your own responsibility for a political moratorium until the country comes out of this critical turning point, at least for the next month. All of us sitting together to see even now and the way you did, how the situation in public hospitals fits, how we can save people who need it, and not blame your political opponents for the mistakes you have made a year ago. Take responsibility and relinquish the circumstances. Your panic leads nowhere! And in this spirit, let me talk about the next six, seven minutes and in relation to this bill. You create social tensions, because you are bringing here at a time when, I repeat, it is the most critical moment of pandemic, a bill that creates great tension in the region of Halkidiki and at the same time shows us the way you have chosen to manage the public interest. What you bring with this convention is essentially the assignment of public space, public land, a very large area of a beautiful prefecture of our country to individuals, without the public having any sovereignty. And you really do find it difficult for us, because when you sign such contracts, it is difficult to get these contracts out. But we will take it, because we will 'you' and 'they' are going to be upset in legality. We'll defend legality. And we will defend legitimacy, because this is the last tool we have in order to defend the present and future of this place. So you bring a contract and you legislate against society at the expense of the public interest. You are bringing a scandal against the environment to Parliament, and above all it is a colonial concession to a foreign company that does what it wants, beyond the laws, beyond provisions and restrictions. At the time you are presenting us as supposedly pro-environmentists, while you say that you have a green policy, while the global community, societies, governments are looking for ways to protect the environment, while we all have to take bold decisions, here we are opening the debate on whether we need to move on to mining to exploit possible deposits that might have been, if I say, vital to the Greek economy. And we say we need to think. We have also opened up this concern - and I am referring to mining - within our party. Because the modern trend of the age is environmental protection. The environment and human life are above profits. So what are you doing here? You are giving land and water to a private company for mining gold that will never come out, to a company that will only do is export abroad any mining findings, without any benefit to the Greek State. So give land and water. We also managed this issue as a government, because it is not a new issue and we did nothing less or more than defend legality, but against a company that does not act as an investor, but as a guild. And you now come back and ask them to apologize from above for the suffering they have had over our days. What's the suffering? It's the suffering of legality. That's what we asked them to be legal. Where has the State been heard give EUR 800 million compensation for for foregone profits to a company that has piles of fines for infringements of environmental legislation and whose officials have been sentenced to imprisonment for the pollution of adjacent areas? So you're bringing a contract not as guardians of the public interest, but as if you were company officials. The contract makes it clear that the company’s investment project is absolutely indicative and does not commit it. In other words, we are dominating a contract whereby parts of the investment project can be amended or repealed at any time. We are talking about a contract that does not commit to jobs, localisation and the rewarding benefits to local government. It is a contract whereby the strike and the demands of workers are seen as grounds for force majeure. The local residents will only be recruited as long as they submit to the company's wage requirements. He's not an investor, but he's a chip. He's a jellyfish! In fact, the convention itself reveals that the "ELELENIKI CHRYSOS" - listen - is looking for investors! So it does not have investment capacity and obliges the Greek State to support it and cooperate with any of the company's financing partners, without having an opinion and an opinion on who it is! [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] The contract also creates a framework of provocative tax exemptions in favour of the company, with compensation for it even when the contract is terminated on the ground of its own, while at the same time it is flying into the bucket of the unusable ones the previous arbitration that it had decided to be a binding obligation on the Hellenic Republic to proceed to metallurgy. It also does not provide for, and required, a strategic environmental impact study nor provides for the preparation and approval of the environmental impact study, as required. This contract prohibits the Greek State from laying down conditions for environmental protection. [[Noise in the Chamber]] What's wrong with you? Is the godfather here? Awesome, Mr. Georgiades! Always worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u189	But I hope you give answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u190	I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u191	I hope that you will give answers, because crucial questions have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u192	I'll answer! But don't go! Stay! Don't lose your words!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u193	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u195	You think, Mr. Georgiadis, that the House is for low-level remote windows that you choose every night to crash with yourself. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We're not doing you a favor! You will give answers, as you must give answers to the Greek people, not to me. You will give your constituents answers, not me and you will show today that you have not forged documents. You will prove today that you have not violated the measures you have adopted! Otherwise, I repeat that I will not be the one to blame you nor the one to judge you. We're political opponents. You will be judged by your voters and by the citizens who today lack rights, which unfortunately you do not, because you are from another generation, from another group, seems to be. You have something special. You're government officials. You'll answer. But you interrupted me. I said, therefore, that this contract deprives the Greek State of the possibility to lay down environmental protection conditions which cause costs for the company and enables the company to hire - be careful - an environmental auditor of its choice to check it, without whose opinion no administrative act can be adopted by the public. This convention also - and I close with it - provides for a port facility, proving what I said earlier, namely that the sole purpose of the company is to export the condensates, giving free yacht rights and arbitrarily legislating in the Aegean Sea. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that what you are trying to do with the ratification of this convention is to give land and water to an investor who does not really want to invest in the Greek economy, but wants to take advantage of your own favors, in order to win. It is an area, however, which is an ornament for the country. It's an area where tourism blossoms. It is an area where if we were all really to bend up with a particular project - and that is our proposal - for tourist development, not only could he have found to replace any minimum benefits that the investment can give, but it could also multiply them. But I think - and I am closing down, Mr President - that your choice is a choice that characterises your plan, your vision, your political choice and the economic model that you want to establish, but also with regard to what we call necessity, namely the protection of the natural environment. It is an anachronistic model, a model that may have prevailed in older centuries, a model that sacrifices the country's natural wealth, but also other economic activities such as tourism, for a few supposedly investors. This is a model that also contradicts social cohesion. There, in the forest of Skouria, in Ierissos and in the other villages of the region, people have defended their land with struggles and with dignity. They have defended their place with pride and courage, and you cannot today come with cynicism - I will say - and tell them that not only will no one pay for the damage almost ten years in their place, but that those who have caused the damage now with the bogeyman will also be the legal owners of their country. So that can't pass. That is why we are committed to doing what is legally possible, in accordance with the laws of the country, not to leave it like this! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We cannot in the country, for two hundred years from the Revolution, instead of having a government that organises the future, have a government that turns us into colonialism. Colonialism is a past and Greece will primarily belong to its people, to those who must live with creation and hard work in order to organize a better future for their children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u197	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u198	Here, Minister, you have the floor. How long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u199	I'll speak properly. I'll make my speech. I wanted to talk about "ELLENIC CHRYS"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u200	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would speak today as a co-president on the issue of gold, which is also the serious issue of the day and which we must deal with in particular. But just before watching my office, I was amazed. I have to say I didn't expect it. I was expecting an experiment in humor, as Mr Tsipras said earlier, but not all of what Mr Tsipras said, who of course ran away, as he does, while insulting the other on staff is not allowed to leave, it is a matter of urban courtesy, which Mr Tsipras obviously did not learn from his parents when he was supposed to. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, though, because it is a parliament and it is not possible to hear such things without analogy and without the right of the human being to defend his honor and reputation before his colleagues and above all, as was rightly said, before the people of the Greeks, I come to reply immediately. Mr Tsipras's first argument is that the document is rather fake and, indeed, - he has repeated it now - that if it turns out to be a fake I should resign. I would like to make it clear that if I had actually forged a document to ex post excuse my participation in an illegally executed Mystery, not only should I have to resign from the Minister for Development, but I should have resigned from a Member and should have disappeared from the political life of the country. If it is possible for a Minister to forge a document and advertise it on Twitter too! And only because of stupidity should I resign beyond moral reasons! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is there any way of proving self-proof whether it's fake or not? You've asked a question yesterday and you're asking for the documents. The license has been granted by the Privacy Policy by e-mail, which appears to be the date, the e-mail will be filed with you, after you requested it, and therefore you have proof of certain chronology on 5 March, that is, 2021. Unless you tell me that the Greek Minister of Development can forged Google data, so in this case I obviously deserve a very different post. So with regard to the plausibility itself this debate started as a joke on twitter, but when it was enough to be adopted by the former Prime Minister of the country it became tragic. But I want to stay a little bit in the plasticity. Who would have done the plasticity? I hadn't revealed who's the child's father, because I didn't want to get the family involved in a political dispute that isn't really her concern. However, since the President of the SYRIZA earlier referred to the President of the Single Procurement Authority, namely Mr Georgios Katapodis, and revealed his identity, as if he were not in my view due to courtesy, not for political reasons, let us take things, ladies and gentlemen, in turn. So what's Mr. Tsipras' argument? That the President of the Single Contract Authority Georgios Katopodis forged in collaboration with the Minister of Development of Greece the document on the special licence for the performance of the mystery of his child.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Tsipras didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u203	Don't interrupt me. But how would I forge it? If I presented a fake document for the baptism of Mr Katapodis, the first person to react to Greece and say "this document is forged" is not the one who has obtained permission? Did I get her permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u204	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u205	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u206	Don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, your parliamentary representative will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u208	I would ask you, Madam President, to withdraw them to class because the truths will now be heard and it will be very painful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u209	He's lying. He's lost the ball!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u210	I'm coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u211	Minister, please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u212	I'm waiting. I'll wait for Mr. Polakis to calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister will answer the way he wants and then your parliamentary representative will have the time to return. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u214	The President of the Single Procurement Authority, Mr. Georgios Katopodos, would have the best thing for you to do in your own case, working together with his silence, or to say it better for you in presenting a false document. But who is George Katapodis? Is this a choice of the Minister of Development Adonidos Georgiados? The President, who allegedly took part in this hypothetical forgery, as Mr Tsipras presented, was proposed to the Greek Parliament for this post by the Government of Alexis Tsipras and specifically by Minister Stathakis. In this vote the New Democracy voted 'white'. He was elected by the votes of SYRIZA and of the Independent Greeks and remained in this post until today during the full time of the Prime Minister of Mr. Tsipras, during the period 2016-2019. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of SYRIZA is seriously claiming that the man who himself chose for president of the Single Convention is a forgeryer and had given him the position for three years as a forgery, Mr Voutsi, and you are not ashamed? It is clear that the document is absolutely true and, as I have said, it also has a chronology certificate by means of the electronic system, which does not fit any human hand, and it ends any discussion on it. As I saw Mr. Tsipras being extremely sensitive to the issue of forgery and said, ladies and gentlemen, if it were proved that Adonis Georgiadis is a forgery he should immediately submit his resignation, I would make it clear: If I was a forgery, I would have resigned immediately. But just to remember, how much Mr. Tsipras' sensitivity to the crime of forgery is. On August 3, 2016, in the same year as Mr Katapodis, Mr Nikolaos Paradropoulos, Minister of Minister of the Republic of Tsipras, brought to the Parliament L.4411/2016 for the decongestion of prisons. In this case, offences with a penalty of two years were filed with him, and until then all laws were referred to a one-year sentence. They were also excluded from the limitation of a number of forgery-related offences, such as forgery and misuse of articles, false medical certificate, forgery of diplomas, etc., except for one, forgery of certificates under Article 217 of the Criminal Code, which -only this of all the offences of forgery - was subject to limitation. At the same time as you voted for this forgery law, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' brother was sentenced as a forgeryer, but because of Mr Tsipras's law, he could not be sentenced because his brother had previously been able to write off to him. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So much is the real sensitivity to the crime of forgery, ladies and gentlemen, by Mr Tsipras, who has previously asked for my resignation. He changed the Criminal Code to prevent his brother from being convicted of forgery, as he was convicted. So to ask for his resignation from himself, Mr. Tsipras who dared to do so in the Greek Parliament. However, Mr Tsipras also said a second argument that there is a barrier to the Civil Service Code, because Mr Katapodis is supervised by me as Minister of Development, that is, and I could never be a godfather of his child because this creates a relationship of dependence. And he also mentioned the relevant article of the Financial Code. It's sad. Mr. Tsipras was five years Prime Minister of the Greeks and he does not know that the Independent Public Contract Authority is not supervised by the Minister of Development. It is not fundamentally supervised by any Minister. It only falls under the control of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Greek Parliament and has nothing to do with me nor could it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the contrary, both constitutional and its founding law have absolutely no relationship to supervision by the Minister of Development. So you know, if you don't know, the only one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Georgiadis, he didn't say supervised. He said you're in control. Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u216	I'm in control?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u217	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u218	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u219	From the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u220	I haven't been in control since the beginning. The Ministry of Development has been in control since the beginning? Of course not. What are you talking about? Of course not. So there is no coincidence of tasks between the Minister of Development and the President of the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u222	It is certain that you can understand that the minister who appointed him would have much greater dependence than someone who put oil into his child. I now come to reply not to Mr Tsipras, because for Mr Tsipras, I imagine that you have all understood the ridiculousness of all arguments, which is why he ran away, but on the big issue concerning Greek citizens who have been affected by my presence in this baptism, thinking that there has been some sort of discrimination. I do not want to have any discrimination and all those who know me for years that I do not want to use any prerogatives, whether ministerial or parliamentarians, are given to all Members of Parliament and ministers from the Greek state. I don't like discrimination at all. In this case, the parents of the child, without any involvement of me, on the grounds that I cannot reveal. But you're smart people. You understand what the serious reasons a family may have invoked in civil protection, Mr President. We must not lose our humanity in our political confrontation, Mr Voutsi. We're not gonna be pigs because SYRIZA wants to put us in the mud. Because, therefore, it had some reasons to submit at first the public documents certifying these reasons and because baptism was planned before the ban, the Civil Protection decided to give, as in other cases - Mr Chardalias told me about ten - this kind of exception to become the mystery. The mystery took place with the presence of six people, including the priest. Was he a great danger to COVID? Oh, no. Is it, ladies and gentlemen - and I am referring to my fellow Member of the New Democracy - a huge hypocrisy on the same day that they were calling at thirty-one protests on Kufontina and allegedly police violence, minding that a father who had a special reason - who they had chosen for this position in the past and who had served them - had to baptise his child and legally went and took an authorisation? Is this some kind of discrimination, where I had a great benefit of becoming a godfather on this particular day, and I couldn't go another day and had to intervene to make this discrimination? Are you serious about this and not embarrassed? You have been lured on Twitter and Facebook, you pay these so-called boots from fake bills to throw mud. Here you have come to make a political accident a car accident! So what are you doing? You are trying to lure all of Greece into this pit that you have decided to make Greece to hit the Mitsotakis Government. Shame on you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Eventually, it's not one Paulis! You are all "Police" to SYRIZA! And to close it, because I've received such messages and I want to answer them. I wish everyone who tells me "I also want a special leave" never to have to have the special reasons for obtaining a special leave! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am really sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that an issue worthy of it to be up to the columns of abstractism has come to eat so much time from Mr Tsipras's speech, while we were talking about the enormous issue of the 'ELLENIAN FRUYS' Convention and in a sense, I am proud - and I will say it, Mr Skreka - and I will tell you why. As you know, I have been actively involved in the preparation of this convention since the previous leadership of Kostis Hatzidakis, with Mrs Sdukos. I would particularly like to remind Kostis Hatzidakis of this contract, because he worked hard for a number of months and you, of course, for completing the contract. One would expect that in Mr Tsipras' speech the central issue would be gold rather than the baptism of Adonidos Georgiados and George Katopodis. The fact that he was forced to spend the crescendo of his speech on whether I well or poorly put oil Christian in a child of twenty months shows the weakness of the arguments on the substance of Greek gold. Let's go to this too, where I'll need two minutes, Madam President, to respond to misery. So I come to the matter of gold. You are supposed to have several disagreements about the articles, if we give immunity, if we waive rights, if it becomes a metallurgy. Every smart man understands that all these are prophecies in sin! Whatever contract the Mitsotakis Government brought with the "ELLENIKIKI CRYSOS" in this House, SYRIZA, Mer25, the Greek Solution, the JRC would vote against it and denounce it. Even if he said he'd give us Arta and Iannina! Because they are in principle opposed to this agreement. I have to say to the reasonably thought-out colleagues and to the Greeks who are following us that today, Minister for the Environment, you are offering a great service at home. Now note for how many reasons: First, in all the international investment forums that I have been involved since the first day I took over the responsibility of the Ministry of Development and Investment, in New York, in London, in Paris, in Berlin, after starting the pandemic on the Internet that takes place on almost daily basis, all investors have always raised two issues since the beginning of the administration of the country by Kyriakos Mitsotakis: One is what is happening with the Greek. I would like to say here that the last details are now voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the next few weeks. The second is what will happen with Greek gold. All the management of the investment of "ELLENIC FRYS" by the SYRIZA Government, mainly by Mr. Skourletis, but also by Mr. Stathakis, was so disastrous for the international investment image of the country that there was not in my word a meeting in an investment fund and there were no two - three to rise and say "we saw what happened to "ELDORADO GOLD" that came to Greece and how he got involved with the Greek State". Getting rid of this issue and getting into this contract was one of the greatest challenges to change Greece's investment image, to show foreign investors that Greece is not the country you're going to get into trouble, but it's the country where you find reasonable people who respect the laws. The news that the Greek Parliament finally votes for this new convention only good for the investment profile of Greece. However, what were the main concerns of the respondents from the outset in this convention already since SYRIZA was in Anti-Policy? What was their main argument? That this contract destroys the environment. Wasn't that the main argument with the events in Ierissos and elsewhere? Ask if anyone from SYRIZA has read this contract. Is the new convention, which we are voting on today, more environmentally friendly than the previous convention, which Mr Skourletis always mentions, more environmentally friendly or less environmentally friendly? And a baby, if he reads it, will understand that the new contract is extremely environmentally friendly, firstly, because the company undertakes a further commitment of EUR 120 million to use a special technology for the drying up of mud and to environmentally correct all the damage that the company itself is doing. To understand, if this contract were not to happen tomorrow and the company were to leave, these hundreds of millions needed for the environmental restoration of the area would have to pay the Greek public, that is, we. So the company comes with the new contract and assumes its eternal obligation and protect the environment in operation and deliver it better than it has been received by the end of the contract. It is therefore extremely environmentally friendly. What is her second big argument? That there would be no metallurgy, as promised. Oh, no! So much for metallurgy? Because, as far as I remember, the most fanatical against metallurgy in the region of Halkidiki was the Members of SYRIZA and all the Syrian nomadic there. Were you yelling "we don't want a metallurgy"? Now did he catch you pain in the metallurgy? What's your argument supposed to be now? He's losing money on the Greek public. Wrong! The Greek State with the new contract receives more money than the previous one. First of all, the investment has almost doubled. The jobs of a thousand four hundred are three thousand. The company’s commitments are twice as high as all relevant indicators. So the impact on the national economy, even without metallurgy, which has not been cancelled - has gone to second time to find the most environmentally friendly solution, which you should normally celebrate - has not only reduced the company's investment capital in Greece, but we have made sure that it is increased, that the investment capital that this company should give Greece is doubled. So economic and environmentally, this contract is much better than the previous one, for which you are allegedly being cut off. I am going to the last argument: the Greek State resigns from various possibilities because we are going to international arbitration. This is a little interesting, and we need to explain it. What did we receive from the SYRIZA government? As you know, this company has so far gone to the Council of State, not just on SYRIZA, on various environmental and licensing issues, twenty-three times. It has won the Greek State and all the applicants concerned against it twenty-three times. There are twenty-three of them - zero. So, this company, in addition to the victories on the Council of State, do you know what else it gave us the first day we went to the Ministry? A claim, it is said, a billet, a debt claim left to us by the SYRIZA government, because they did not grant him the permits at the planned time of the previous EUR 800 million contract! To make this contract a prerequisite is for the company to resign its ability to get 800 million euros. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because Mr. Skourletis has pushed us too much for the infidelity, you have committed infidelity, and you are not rubbing too much in the bag of chopani, Mr. Skourletis. For you have allowed a company to take decisions in favour of arbitrators, allowing it to claim almost EUR 1 billion compensation from the Greek state. So "sea" you've done it, and you've got the face to talk about infidelity to Minister Skreka. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For all these reasons - and I am addressing most of my colleagues in the Change Movement - this convention cannot stand any critical debate on whether it is better than the previous one. It is clearly better than the previous one for the Greek state. We, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, together with the previous Samara Government - Venizelos, were even defending the previous convention and trying to allow this investment to continue. The government of SYRIZA, who had been sworn before it was elected that the first thing it will do will be to close the gold mines, finally made them "sea". Mr Skourletis, I would like to exclude him from the rest, because the truth is that with his moves as Minister he did almost manage to shut it down and shut it down. He didn't want it, he didn't want the investment to go on. That's what I want to be honest with. Besides, Mr. Skourletis left this post immediately, because Mr. Tsipras quickly realized that if Skourletis stays, the company will leave. And Mr. Tsipras at the same time wanted to mock his voters at the same time as the company, and he wanted to close half an eye on one, half an eye on the other. So when he realized that if Skourletis leaves, the company will be left, he took Skourletis out. And gala's been wrong with the company for the next four years. Because of course five years you were in power, but neither did you denounce it nor did you shut it down. So leave the lionisms for infidelity, leave the disgusting things you do. Get out of the gutter you've brought to Greece. And I'm closing. I listened very carefully to Mr Tsipras in the first five minutes of his speech, in how secretly he referred to the problems faced by the National Health System since the tripping of the pandemic. Last week I received very hard criticism from SYRIZA, because I anticipated what Mr Tsipras was going to say today. What did I say? That the main reason for making a hundred and twenty protests in forty days is the deliberate spread of the pandemic, because it is absolutely impossible to believe seriously that Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Voutsis and all others do not know and do not suspect that the demonstrations are a factor of the spread of the pandemic. Why isn't it, then why don't people go to the field? Why don't people walk in the streets? Why were you yelling at Ermos when it was full of people on the Christmas market? Does the pandemic stick if there are people in Ermos, but doesn't it stick if it's the world in the Constitution or New Smyrna? So you obviously knew that with the demonstrations there would be an outbreak of the pandemic and that is what Mr Tsipras meant when he said to Mr Schrotter: 'I accept the risk of spreading the virus'. The problem is not that Mr. Tsipras accepted the risk of spreading the virus, the problem is that the political behaviour of SYRIZA spread the virus. If you do not understand that, from the first week of February to the present day, no social activity, trade, public transport, sport and nothing has changed. This was all the same at the beginning of February and today. What changed only from the end of February and then, so the pandemic gradually began to rise? That all of a sudden a party, large, the Civic Opposition, decided to go down the streets. As I was explained by infectious scholars - so people know - it's not just that they're stuck in the protest. That's the secondary one. Do you know what the realm is, that I didn't know because I'm not a doctor? They don't go from an area of Athens or Thessaloniki, but they go from different regions, and those who stick around go home and spread the pandemic across all the regions. And so a pandemic he had before excitement, let's say in West Attica or northern Athens, now he's all over the place. Because they spread it all over Attica and after they spread it all over Attica... Are you laughing, Mr. Skourlet? You should go to the intensives you've put people in to laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u223	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u224	And tell them that I made a protest knowing that pandemic is all about Georgiadis' baptism, a liar and a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u225	You're a hypocrite. It's disgraceful! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u226	So you deliberately spread the pandemic so that Chipras could come here and cry! That's what you did! And you reversed Greece's national effort to gain political benefits! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Skrekas has asked me to make a small speech and then I will give Mr Skourletis the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, I have asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Skourletis will speak and he will answer. There is no staff, Mr Polakis, please very much. You can't every time a name is mentioned say it's personal. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u230	Can't I say the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u231	There's no personal, what can we do now? I didn't see the staff from the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u232	Of course there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u233	No, Mr. Skourletis will answer, please, because the procedure needs to be continued. Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u234	I will be a Laconian, Madam President, because he mentioned some of the facts, and I think we need to put things in place and give the right picture. First, he came here today, sometimes he said that a politician should not attack his political opponent, smash or thicken the climate, and for ten minutes he was talking about Mr. Georgiadis, but he answered and put things the way it is. Unfortunately, it will have to change a way, with all due respect for the President of the Police Department. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it needs to change the way he treats the Greek Parliament. Personal attacks have always been within his repertoire, but at least he must have learned from what he has suffered and must stop doing so. Let me say a few issues concerning the situation that has been created because of the pandemic, which is, of course, a fact which not only affects our country, but is a global event, is about the whole world and the whole world. What would have happened if such an event concerned Greece alone. Fortunately, however, for our country - badly for Mr Tsipras - there are comparison measures for what has happened in Greece and for what has happened in the rest of the world and in the other European countries. I believe that in the way he conducts himself and in what he says first of all he does not respect the struggle and the trouble that doctors, nurses, EAW rescuers, police and all those who help to support today our fellow citizens who fight for their lives as many of them do. There is a comparison measure. What do indicators show? They show that Greece has achieved them, comparatively, much better so far, without celebrating, of many supposedly more developed Western European countries, both in the field of health and in the field of the economy and the labour market. Greece - I repeat that we are not celebrating this, but it is the reality - has half the life losses due to pandemic than the average European term. It is in the 20th third place between twenty-seven European countries. Twenty-two countries of the European Union, unfortunately, have more death losses because of pandemic than Greece. I repeat that this is not to celebrate, but to compare what has happened in our country and what has happened in the other European countries and to finally be able to decide whether something has become better in this country, which is also taking place in this part. As far as the tests are concerned, we are carrying out more tests based on ECDC indicators. We have the second best service in maintaining jobs after Italy. We have managed to achieve a lesser recession than many other developed industrial economies in Europe, although you know that our economy is based on tourism and we have naturally suffered a great deal of damage because of the pandemic. Data show that lockdown is inevitable. It is happening in the rest of the countries. Mr. Tsipras came here and accused the Greek Government. Does he have to decide, or does he want to take measures? Does he want protection measures or does he want us to let things go? Greece and the Greek Government are pursuing a dynamic response to a dynamic situation which is volatile and changes week after week. So everything he says doesn't really belong. In Germany, there are restrictive measures in force until the end of March. In Spain, there are restrictive measures until early May. Local lockdowns apply to Italy and France. In France, every day, a curfew has been banned after 6 hours, which has been accused of our government by the President of Officerial Response. They shall apply from the beginning of December in Austria, Belgium, Portugal, the Czech Republic and Estonia. Europe-wide is fighting to protect European citizens from the consequences of the pandemic and from the prevalence and expansion of this pandemic. From the outset, the Greek Government and the Greek Prime Minister have said that this is a marathon and not a sprint, of course, contrary to what Mr Tsipras said. It's true. The public health system is under very heavy pressure, but there are people who are currently supporting its operation, and there are, of course, the government's decisions, which, during the pandemic, have brought some very important results. Beds have been raised in the ICUs to a thousand four hundred. Even if we remove what Tsipras said, the intensive care units are more than double what we received from the SYRIZA government. And all this was done in the midst of a pandemic and, of course, with the participation and sponsorships of the private sector, which the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, himself, and the example of the President of the Greek Parliament, as well as of all Greek MPs. These did not see happening on your own government, fighting anything from the private sector. During the pandemic, seven thousand sanitaries, a thousand four hundred permanent doctors have been recruited. Four thousand nurses perpetuate themselves. The vehicles have doubled in terms of public transport in both Attica and Thessaloniki from eight hundred and fifty to three hundred and three thousand have increased. This has been done throughout this period, and so we have, unfortunately, faced these consequences that no one was expecting to come for a fact that occurs once in a hundred years, such a global pandemic. As far as the positive indicator is concerned, you should be aware that we are doing much more tests, as I have told you, than we did at the beginning of the pandemic. Based on data, the positiveity index is actually halfway through the second wave. Should we celebrate? Oh, no. We must continue to protect ourselves, give the good example, which SYRIZA and his executives do not. It has been repeated many times in this Chamber: we all know what you have done. We all know how you encouraged people to go down the streets and protest. I do not think anyone can have the courage to come here and blame the government for not taking action on the other hand to encourage people to go down the streets to conspire and, allegedly, to protest for these ideological sticks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u236	Make my position together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u237	No, you cannot do it because your colleagues have asked before you, so I cannot give it to you. You can respond to the Minister. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Georgiadis, when something is not provided for by the provisions and is done specifically for a Minister, then there are no matters of plausibility, because Mr Hardalias himself said yesterday through Mr Hadjikolaou, who had given an earlier interview, that there is no such exception and special permission for the reason you requested. And not only that, then the archdiocese representative comes out and confirms it. And because you said you participated in an uncle mystery as a godfather, I imagine the archdiocese spokesman isn't lying. Do you know what's bothering people? It is disturbing when he sees the series bypass, the planning of people who are to be vaccinated and the government officials go. To have strict penalties and fines for the many people and the Prime Minister for himself can sit with his friends in Ikaria, walk around Parnitha, people of the Civil Protection of Mr. Arkumanias to organise their own private parties. Do you know what's bothering you? It's the promotion of power. You give the impression that there are two worlds, the rulers and the people. That's what's bothering you, Mr. Georgiadis. That's what's bothering and causing. And it does precisely because this perception is diffuse to various things. Even the tragic accident occurred yesterday in the House, you rushed to cover it up. Why? Why? Why? What for? This is more annoying than other situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u239	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u240	You're unfair to yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u241	Be careful, because I am sure you agree, because you have always been a folk mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u242	And I had you in custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Comrade, please. Mr. Skourletis, continue your speech, because you will not have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u244	I'm not saying it, my admiral, the Chief of Police made a statement about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u245	What do you invoke him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u247	Please! And I had you under arrest!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u248	Mr Colleague, please very much, we are in Parliament's Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u249	And you are now reaching the lowest level, speaking of the former Prime Minister, to refer to his brother's case and even to relate it to photographic provisions that were allegedly passed by the previous government to be acquitted, which had actually been done before. But the "fake, liar, liar" really fits only you. You are the shame of the party and the Greek Parliament to come here and accuse the opposition that it is deliberately helping the case of the pandemic and the proliferation of the coronary. How far will this provocativeness, psalmology, division come? You do not respect what the Greek people, who are currently facing outside hospitals, have people in cars waiting for them to be examined at the external doctors, who do not have doctors, who a year have shown that you do not have a holistic plan for the public health system, because you do not believe in the public health system and you prove it on a daily basis. Rescind what you said about Civicism and you have said too much. Don't be afraid, we won't catch your democracy! From that you have distances, but there are limits! There are limits! You spoke of the period of our own governance and of this investment. You don't know well, Minister. It's too bad why you're a Minister of Development. Do you know why this company was not vindicated by the Council of State? Do you know that? Because she appealed against my own decisions that I turned back on the applications she had made for authorisation in Skouria. Do you know each other? And then they came out-of-date as a diversion movement. You don't know that. Because he said that one of these condensates cannot produce gold, your favorite gold. You have a love as an extradition to gold, you may think it brings us together! And there was no way of managing arsenic waste. Do you know what arsenic means to workers who work at a thousand and a thousand meters? Do you have this in mind? They'll die like rats. They will get cancer on Halkidiki because the history of arsenic is not about cyanide and cyanosis. Do you know these things? That's why the S.T.E. He said these studies came back. And instead of you as a responsible government to say that, here you are mocking us, gentlemen, because you are so many years in Greece, you have taken investment, the management of mines as a price to add value, the taxation of the vertical production through gold production and revenue for the Greek State, you have not done that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Colleague, please have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u251	And you come here and you identify yourself with the most anachronistic one there is. Investment means having a modern investment framework. It doesn't mean you're pulling everything down. So there, do you super investors want to classify Greece? Anyway, to finish, what about the Greek, brother?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, I will give you the floor, but for two minutes only please very much, because Mr Varoufakis has been here too, and he must speak. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u253	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes on the car accident mentioned by Mr Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President. Give me a minute, 'cause I'm looking for a painting to read to you, so I can answer Mr. Skourlet. First of all, Mr Skourletis, I have to tell you that you were far more worldly about my personal subject than your Chief. Make him some cultural lessons. I am very pleased that you have not referred to any forgery at all. I will repeat - I think if I will move legally against Mr Tsipras - that Mr Tsipras came to the Greek Parliament and adopted the internet encampment against his political opponent, seriously pleading that I forged a document to become a godfather, as if I could not be a godfather one or two months later, I had to be this Sunday. And this is what the former Prime Minister of the country tells seriously. Read five trolls and brought them to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u255	Why didn't you go two months later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u256	Because it wasn't my business. It was from your family. After you have appointed Mr. Katapodis, and you have such a great anxiety to know, his phone has it, take him to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u257	Can every citizen do it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u258	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u259	I'll answer in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u260	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Let it finally end!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Skourlet once again told half the truth. Mr Chardalias said there is no special leave, indeed, but he said something else. There is no special permission to go now if you decide to baptize, but when the CIA came out, those who had planned baptism beforehand and caught the ban had the right to go to the service and to state the reasons why they couldn't postpone. And he said, in fact, that about ten of these permits were granted. One of these ten was Mr Katapodi's. However, I will repeat this: if the one you chose for President of the Single Procurement Authority is a forger who set up this story, imagine what he will have done for three years in SYRIZA in such a responsible position that you have put him in. Mr. Skourletis, before I go to the major for the pandemic that I'm going to close, I want to tell you something as worldly as I can and not to raise my voice. I'm getting out of my way, and I'm taking your ears. Be careful where you have reached Greece especially lately. And I address Mr. Voutsi because he knows I respect him. I'll tell you and I'm creeping. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in a country where Hector Koufantinis, the son of Paul Bakoyannis's killer, is on the Internet to Dora Bakoyannis and calls it "killer" for the traffic accident outside the House. I'm telling you, I'm creeping. Be careful, I want you to understand what you have allowed it to happen in Greece! The son of Paul Bakoyannis's killer has given up Dora Bakoyannis, the widow, as a murderer for a traffic accident, because you leave them with what you're doing! With what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u263	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u264	Well, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u265	You have brought to Greece all the pit of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u266	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u267	Take care, then, of what you're doing: a car accident, for which we're all crying, and we're all hurting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u268	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u269	...a traffic accident became a matter of political controversy in a way that has never occurred in Transmigration!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u270	The shame of Greece you have become! Liar! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u271	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u272	I'll come to the last one. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] The people will judge us all. You and Kufontina and us with democracy, if that's the way you want it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u273	Minister, you have to close down. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u274	So, listen, now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u275	Minister, please listen to me. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. And I beg the Minister very much right now to listen. Minister, you promised me you'd speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u276	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u277	He's waiting for a party leader to speak. Please! We've escaped the program. Please don't get out of this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u278	I'll be right back. What he said about S.H.E.'s decision. Mr. Skourlet, he was, as always, half. The company appealed for six points. He was entitled in four and two to the S.E. requested an additional study. There was no Skourlet's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u279	Where's the additional study? Did the company bring her the additional study? Two years you've been at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u280	And I'm closing now with the pandemic, which is the best. I am accused of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Skourletis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u281	Minister, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u282	I'm hanging up. If you let me go, I'll close. I am accused of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Scrouletis - take note - that badly and badly I am trying to connect SYRIZA and the protests with the increase in pandemic. I've made a painting. The table shows the day Mr. Tsipras went out to Mr. Strotter and said that "I accept the risk of the pandemic spreading in Greece" the increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u283	Whatever you're yelling at, the Greek people heard him. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how much is the increase in pandemic since the day Mr Tsipras announced it and in the meantime there were a hundred twenty protests? Plus 160.1%. And be careful, no other social activity has taken place in Greece. All that changed in these five weeks is SYRIZA's protests in favour of Kufontina. So for Koufantina, you are destroying Greece! That's the reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u284	The NSA officials who are quarantine in protests were?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u285	Gentlemen, let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u286	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, with all due respect, precisely because you are a former President of this House, I will give you the floor for a minute, because what is currently happening in this House is unacceptable from a parliamentary point of view. He has been a party leader and has not been able to speak for half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u288	The unacceptable thing is that Mr. Georgiadis is Minister of Greece! That is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u289	You will also allow me to say something else than this. Nor do the ministers have the right to violate time, as the Members themselves do not have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u290	Yes, but he broke him, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u291	The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u292	Madam President, in both his speeches Mr Georgiadis has actually served in a dildo, a pseudo delinquent and a hybrid delière against the Officerial Response, the President and Chief of Officerial Response, and against all of us. Madam President, it is not possible - it is not even in the channels, it is not even in political events that we are alone with people - that Mr Georgiadis speaks about the bourgeoisie of SYRIZA and about all the other things that he does not feel the need to withdraw and leave the Minutes of the Chamber and of the House. It's a disgrace to that thing! It is shameful for weeks now, and Mr Georgiadis and part of his prolongation to bring to the political actors in the country Dimitris Koufantinas and everything that is being done, for whatever debate is taking place within the House, for whatever confrontation there is - no matter how hard this confrontation - to bring and divide the political forces of the country to the basis of the demonstrations and all the protests that have taken place in our country all this time against police rule, against the measures of the government on education, against the legislation that comes here through the pandemic, to make use of the government's pandemic and to manage the fear of the Greek people. It is incomprehensible, in fact, when we are at this critical phase of the pandemic, for which there have been warnings. As in the summer - I would refer you to the Minutes - we had warnings for October and November, for cases and for the second wave, in December, Mr Georgiadis, there were warnings from the American institute and from the Greek scientists that Easter, if no concrete measures are taken and if there is no specific strategy, we will reach numbers which I do not want to say about the Minutes. But you know how the pandemic index rises, with all the consequences. Two weeks ago, Mr Tsipras, whom you have raised today to the end of questions of toughness that he asked you to answer from the Step of the House, had set out the national action plan for a new RHS very specifically, costly and with measures, which should have been taken from yesterday, from the beginning of last year to the pandemic, so that the Greeks do not now experience this deadlock and for which you - smart of whom, of course, are not able to hide it - have not been able to say where the hospitals are today, as the last hospitals left empty the possibility of helping those who do not have COVID - in order to be able to meet the demand from our patients. For these numbers and for how the pandemic propeller would go there was full scientific documentation from December and January. Look at the evidence. You know it. If there were no measures to be taken, if we did not go to Lockdown - accordion, if the primary health care really existed to satisfy them, if there were much more tests prescribed and not randomly, all these issues, which you know and heard today, are the result of a misguided strategy in the field of health, because you have been denounced - the Prime Minister said so - in June - of what will happen in the summer, and in October and today itself in December and in January. And instead of answering or presenting proposals, because Mr. Tsipras even spoke of a political moratorium on the possibility of all of us dealing with this crisis together, instead of answering them, on the real issues, what do you say? You say what the Chief of Police, Mr Mitsotakis, who had brought the Hubbolt report down with evidence today, said that protests and protests with all the sanitation measures are the cause and that SYRIZA is the cause of increasing pandemic. Do you realize how criminal, humiliating, splitting is what you're saying? Do you realize what you're escrowing? It is dramatic what you say and if you charge the government with this assessment of Civic Opposition, for the JRC, for Mera25, for all the powers of lawyers, doctors, students, intellectuals of the country, ordinary citizens who have been in their squares to breathe, if you charge them like that, you are a preacher of division, intolerance and a provocative of tragic situations. Take back - and I tell you rhetoric -, Mr Georgiadis, and do not charge for your extradition, because you are also the Vice-President of the party, with such assessments of such insults, such falsehoods. It's incomprehensible - I'm telling you right - because we're at critical times. There is evidence of the pandemic and economic issues and issues relating to the deep police rule and the police state, which, by exploiting the pandemic, set it up day after day. In this respect, we should discuss, fight, confrontation, but there should also be a composition and a harmony in the face of the tragedy that the Greek people are experiencing at the moment. That's what I'm calling you for. That's what called you today, your resignation, beyond your personal matter, and the Chief of Staff of the Opposition. Don't blame yourself. Don't blame your resignation. No one raised a political issue about the terrible accident that took place outside this House. For God's sake! There are responsibilities which have to do with the principles themselves. And the Troy and the Police are trying to find the responsibilities they have been. Obviously there is no political responsibility from them. Each of us is judged on when it is placed on these issues. You understand what I'm saying. However, condensing all this in a disgusting, shameful - let me say - conceived against Officer Opposition and all the forces of the Left, as if you were in an election panel, exceeds every limit. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u294	On personal grounds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u295	Minister, I will not give you the floor. And I will not give you the floor because you have responded well. You spoke about 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u296	Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u297	Please. I have to hold the Chamber. Your parliamentary representative will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u298	But on personal grounds I want the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u299	Minister, please. On staff this debate will go until tomorrow morning. How is it going to be in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u300	You can't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u301	I can't give him to you because I gave him to you for two minutes, you did it five. I gave him for ten, you did it twenty. There's a party leader in here, and he needs to talk. I give the floor to the President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Madam President. No problem. I hope I'm allowed to talk about the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with something we will agree with. The only vaccine for the economic pandemic is investment. Investments, investments, investments. This is where we won't argue. Yeah, well, into the investments. Not in the disinvestment. When is mining an investment and when is it a disinvestment? It depends on what you get out of the ground, who benefits from it, what stays behind the hole that you will open in the ground or at the seabed, what are the benefits of local society, the overall economy, humanity. In this case it is interesting to compare what ELDORADO GOLD is doing with LARCO. The nickel and cobalt produced by LARCO are the metals in which the next green industrial revolution will be built. Gold is completely useless. Maybe he's an honor. But he has no real offering to mankind. You'll tell me: What do we care about? Money to come out. We care about humanity. But let's look at it a little more globally. Who benefits from the price of gold? The state does not benefit, as will not benefit from the mining of EXXONMOBIL, which will not, anyway, be done - read your own contracts - nor the ELDORADO GOLD is benefiting the state. You'll tell me about the jobs. Yes, there are a few thousand jobs, which are sacred. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the government and, in fact, gentlemen of the government - three of you - to say that there is a contradiction here. I see that some jobs for you are sacred, some of them are from the floor. When it comes to jobs in LARCO - which I mentioned, but also other companies - there 'to close, it is not financially the operation of the factory, to sell as much as cracks'. ELDORADO's jobs are suddenly sacred. You will tell me that "LARCO" has damages, while "GREEK CHRYS" has profits. That's right. But how do we calculate profits and losses? You're not telling me, are we not supposed to deduct from the revenues of a business? You have to. Yes, but the problem with "ELDORADO" in Halkidiki, in Skouria, is that we do not deduct all costs. In other words, the way out for the Greek society, for the Greek environment for the next two hundred years from the male and cyanide used, is not what we are counting on. ELDORADO does not pay for it. Who's paying for it? The Greek people, the tourism of the future, the agricultural development that will not come to Halkidiki, because it will be poisoned by the soil. The fact that the 'ELDORADO' does not pay it, and so it has a profit, does not mean that no one does. The Greek people do it in the long run. Of course, there are also the benefits of local society. We know very well what ELDORADO has done. He's gone, he's given money. In fact, he has given local societies with various clubs, even in Alexandroupolis, his grace has come by oiling, to enable them to win because they do not pay the real cost of their mining. Unfortunately, the benefits of local society, the short-term benefits of local society, are enough to damage even local society in the medium to long term. Here's the problem. Of course, there is also the great cost, the blow to the Greek state, to the state of Greeks and Greeks because we are actually talking about Bananas. Minister, this contract in Japan will never be signed by your counterpart. Such a contract in Germany will never be signed by your counterpart. Such contracts are only signed in Bananas, only in neo-colonials, in the “Greece” debt regime in this case. But I must congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on your consistency. The consequence is a very positive one, except for if it is your own consistency, which introduces one bill after another, you guarantee immunity in the "paracy" whether it is "ELDORADO", whether it is red loans, or public suppliers, the self-assessment of individuals who self-assess the costs they bear in the state and of course the consequence with which you are baptising the immunity "reformation", failure to "excellence" and the assignment of national sovereignty - because that is what this convention does - 'common logic'. Here again, the Mitsotakis Government, legislate the four alphas: immunity, immunity, self-assessment of the "predators". Article 11.3 is clear. The state forbids itself - listen, listen! - the right to raise claims by companies. Non-treatment clause. In Article 12.2 this is, of course, an old story, not only in this bill, it has to do with all this sad story about "ELDORADO" - water, wells at the disposal of the company, wood, all kinds of materials, dams, all for free! Well, all right, I'm not a fan of Milton Friedman. You who are fans of Milton Friedman or at least should have been, if you'd read the texts that are supposed to form your characters, didn't Friedman teach you that nothing is free, that anything that's supposed to be free, is the citizen paying for it, is society paying for it? Article 12.6 states that any blockage by any authority for any reason - archaeological authority, whatever it may be - is an explicit fact of public responsibility. Autogol, this is called the common humor. Article 18.3 states that the State accepts its obligation to provide the financing guarantee company. What do you think? Really? And other public guarantees? Are you going to add these to the debt? That means! It means more debt - such as HERAKLE 12 billion for the predators - here for the ELDORADO. Reading Article 19, it's like the company's profits went out to Congo, as if it were in Cayman Islands directly. From Cayman Islands to Cayman Islands why they are protected - it says - from the Greek State. In other words, the Greek State cannot have the right to judge whether these profits are excessive or have to be expropriated for some reason. That's a matter of sovereignty. In Germany, such a contract would not be signed. The German state would not accept this self-restriction, regardless of whether it would use the right to expropriate profits. In Article 22, here is self-assessment, it says - it says - an auditor who suggests health, safety and environmental protection issues, as you did with the Financial-coverage fund, with the various PPPs, with the public suppliers. That's why we're talking about your incredible consistency. There is no immunity against the public and in favour of the private person who has not legislated it in the past few weeks! Your efficiency is amazing! Congratulations! Well done! I really admire you from the depth of my soul and mind. But there's something that's very interesting and you'll understand why it's very entertaining. It seems that the 'ELDORADO' does not believe you when you say that 'now the euro'. He doesn't believe you. You've been put on a drachma clause here. Understood? Are you committed - for what? - that the State is required to have sufficient foreign exchange volumes at ELDORADO to export its profits. In other words, you were actually derailed, you of the New Democracy, saying: 'Okay, we accept that we may leave the euro, but do not fear, a dear company 'ELDORADO', we will have put enough dollars and euros aside for you to export your profits.' Like you're not embarrassed. Like you're not embarrassed. You have built a "FRAPORT", as you gave SYRIZA airports to "FRAPORT" with our own money, with bank loans, which were essentially directed from the troika to the Greek state, to the banks, to the "FRAPORT", to get us the airports free of charge. Well, the difference is that here is a worse "FRAPORT" that poisons the soil and drives tourists out. The 'FRAPORT', at least, brings some outside pandemic. Today you are building a legal framework for "ELDORADO". It's no accident. You realize that the "ELDORADO" is making fun of you under the name he chose. You know what "ELDORADO" means. It is a complete and direct reference to the myth of concistadors, which is inevitably tied to the splash of the cultures of Central America, where the concistadors went. It's okay. We made an objection of unconstitutionality. You're definitely rejecting this. Assuming your bill is not unconstitutional. Even though, Minister, all these articles in your bill are holy and the investments will come, which - we agree - are the "embol" for the economic pandemic. If so, why don't you extend these articles to other companies too, not just to 'ELDORADO'? They apply to all companies that will come to Greece, to 'CISCO', to 'MICROSOFT'. Do it. Don't say 'yes', because you're not even capable of doing this. Do it. Come here and give all these colonial arrangements to all the companies. And then I'll tell you something else. Why don't you do it for the Greeks? The Greek businessmen don't have a soul? Do it for them, too. Basically, you will abolish the Greek state. The big question - this is our question, it is none of your business - is for them and for those who are really concerned about this country: Why? Why is this whole story about "Hellenic Chrysos"? Why sanctions for contracts with EXXON? Why EastMed - which as I have said here - will never happen and never happen anyway? The reasons are three. Listen to them, too. It's none of your business. You have other reasons why you continue your course. First, ELDORADO is a classical colonial company. As British East India Company actually exploited India, so does ELDORADO in Halkidiki. 'Explore, do not wipe, finish!', this is 'ELDORADO'. All right, they have their reasons. But that is not only the reason why there are colonial interests, such as those associated with EXXON, the 'TOTAL', the EastMed, which arise - and this is much more interesting, why? - because they concern minerals that will never come out - and you know that they will never come out - but which have already been disbursed, they've already created revenues - how? - through consultative companies that take millions to advise on things that will never be done - and that is, at least for an economist like me, even more interesting - from the way they build structured derivatives on the basis of future incomes from minerals that will never be exported. I come to you, friends and friends of SYRIZA. I know you're feeling bad, I hope you're feeling bad, because all this is the product of the signature of my friend and for many years my colleague at universities, George Stathakis. When we at Diem25 ran across Europe against TTIP and CETA, George Stathakis, namely, you signed CETA. This is nothing but an extension of CETA. When "EVENT"" "SYRIZA", your SYRIZA people were running against TTIP and CETA, you as a government, starting with "yes" in everything, signed CETA on 6 July and now you have created the legal framework, the European framework on which this sale is actually on the side of the New Democracy. You're guilty, comrades of SYRIZA, and you know it. Ladies and gentlemen, when the first industrial revolution was evolving, we were struggling, fighting for our freedom from the Ottomans. When the second industrial revolution was evolving, we, unfortunately, entered tragically in a period of half a century of wars, had dissatisfaction as well, had the Civil War. When the third industrial revolution came, digital, Greece entered the process of overcompensation, bankruptcy and memoirs. Now, today we have a chance not to lose the fourth industrial revolution, the green industrial revolution, based on renewable energy networks, not on holes in the soil. Any country in the Mediterranean becomes the centre for the production and distribution of hydrogen, produced by electricity from floating wind turbines in the Aegean and Ionian Sea, will have caught up with the green industrial revolution. Sadly, SYRIZA previously, in these critical years the New Democracy has been tieting the country to mining, pipelines, LNGs, to toxic mining processes of a long time ago. Mer25 is here to present a comprehensive plan, as we did at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition last September, so that Greece does not lose, so that our children don't lose, so that the Greeks don't lose this train of the fourth, green industrial revolution. You will now tell me what I am saying, we are living in a new regime, the 'nostalgic' regime, which does not lose opportunity. In a European context, while the United States of America and Britain in May will have completed the vaccinations, while the financial injection of Joe Byden and Boris Johnson in England will be more than twice as much, three times that of any financial injectment here in the European Union, even full implementation of the so-called Recovery Fund, we, you expect the orders from Brussels. Can't you see the fiasco, the financial fiasco? Europe, which has a double difference between production capacity and real production, twice as different as the European Union, has 1/3 of the budgetary injection. As for the vaccination fiasco, what can I say? You applauded the Recovery Fund. Now that it's shown to be the end of macro-importance, you're not saying a word. You still expect the money from the Recovery Fund. Some money will come, they will be macro-economicly insignificant, they will do nothing about the debt that is in a state of eruption in the stratosphere. Did you welcome the European Union's common vaccination policy and now that it has collapsed completely, have you noticed what has been done with seventeen, eighteen countries denounced 'ASTRAZENECA'? Why? One reason is the blame game, it is because Mrs Merkel and Mr McCron are trying to hide behind their fingers, accusing the "ASTRAZENECA" for their complete failure. Fortunately there are some serious people, such as the chairman of the National Committee for Vaccines, Mrs Theodoridou, such as Emer European Medicines Association, who did not fall into this blame game, where companies are involved. And what will Mrs Merkel and Mr McCrone do tomorrow when Coreper gives the green light again to 'ASTRAZENECA'? And colleagues of the SYRIZA made a very bad impression to me - and I must say that I was saddened - because Mr. Xanthos was one of the few ministers of your government who saved the years of your government, that he also played recently, was lured by this blame game, with SYRIZA struggling to win a few points, squeeze this scientific irrationalism. We, building up on the one hand the populism that costs lives and Mrs Merkel and Mr McCron, now with vaccines and on the other hand, which costs even more lives, tell you once again that you are guilty. The fact that you have stopped 80% of operations, interventions, planned interventions costs lives, affects lives. And why are you doing it? Because, despite what I have heard, the very fine words which, unfortunately, do not respond, Minister, in fact, you have not increased the number of permanent doctors and permanent nurses. All of these elements - I challenge you right now - are polluting. You got doctors with one and two years contracts, the simulations are less than the departures for a year and a half. You're guilty of the mass tests you didn't do. We, at Mera25, had been hairy, since last March we told you, we supported you in the first lockdown and said: Set up a network of centres for mass tests! You ignored us. You are guilty of not concluding agreements on the provision of vaccines outside the European Union's failed programme. All the other European countries do. We're the only ones who don't do it. Order from today sufficient quantities of Chinese, Russian! I didn't say we could use it, order them, because when Coreper approves them, then you won't. It's very important that we get out of a human being. A month ago, I gave you statistics on how many people will die if you fail to achieve the vaccination rate you announced. These people are dying today. You're guilty of this! You said about a thousand vaccine centers. Where is he? In January, you were talking about these. You are guilty that once again you are planning to open the harp tourism - glue. I heard the plans that since May - it says - through targeted vaccination of hotel staff will be opened. Okay, are we serious? So you want to tell me that a 20-year-old waiter at a hotel in Rhodes or Crete will be vaccinated a 50-year-old because he's a waiter? Are you either sending him or sending her without a vaccine to work? Decide which one of the two crimes you'll commit. Will you remove the priority order, or will you send this man to work under conditions that do not ensure or guarantee her health? Even now we invite you to set up this network of thousands of centres that are for massive tests, to be for vaccinations and which would later be an ideal dowry to the National Health System for our primary care. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, Greece is no longer able to govern it by persuasive bodies of government and officer counter-population, an undoubted corrupt European leadership, which you have become awkward, as they are mobilized by one fiasco in the other fiasco, by the budget and the memorial fiasco in the vaccine fiasco. You are a government - 'cafe' within the 'child' of this European Union, a European Union caught in the tentacles of events outside its control, all it knows to do is strengthen the iron of the iron cage in which it is built, enclaved and enclosed by the people of Europe. Austerity for the many and socialism for the very few, for the funds, for the 'paracists', for the various 'ELDORADO'. As after three lost industrial revolutions you are undermining your policies, your mining policies, Greece's chance not to lose the fourth, the green industrial revolution, as after ten years of memoranda we are more bankrupt today than in 2010, so now you are going to get us out of the quarantine with more dead and more permeated every day than when we entered the quarantine, not one more permanent doctor at the ESS without a serious mass test program, without the vaccines that Mr Mitsotakis promised us to bring freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, if for some countries it is true that their people have the governments they deserve, that is certainly not the case for the Greeks and Greeks, for this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u304	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u305	And now I will give the floor for a minute to the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adoni Georgiadis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President, for giving me the floor to answer Mr Voutsi and what he said before to close this debate. First of all, Mr Voutsis asked me to withdraw the phrase I used for SYRIZA. My exact phrase was: 'From the bourgeois of SYRIZA'. I did not say that all SYRIZA is - I will explain it - but by a 'built-up', by the 'abomination'. "Apapattos" I meant it's all on the Internet that the online team that is motivated and controlled by SYRIZA and in the last few days blames one and the other with these misery. Now, as far as these things were brought to parliament by Alexis Tsipras, this is something else. Mr. Voutsis said that you have never politicised the issue of the car accident in the House and that this is what Trojana is investigating. It was very nicely said by the former President of Parliament, but with the exception that two minutes ago Mr Skourletis, a Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, had rushed to say, "Get away" the car accident that took place outside the Parliament." I beg your pardon, Mr Skourletis, but what Mr Voutsis said is true, that you have never politicised it, and that the Trojans are dealing with it, or what you said, that we have rushed to 'collect it'. But it's not both. And I'm closing up with one last thing. He said Mr. Voutsis that there are studies that say that if you protest with protection measures, etc., the virus is not spreading and so all the charge I've mentioned is false. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, if the argument that the virus is not spread if there is a lot of people in an open space with masks, can you explain to me, for example, why all of you in the windows in the Holy Theophanes go and count in which church were thirty, fifty, 60 faithful to take the sacred water? So he sticks out of the church if he's thirty, forty people with masks, but doesn't get stuck in the protest if he's three thousand with masks? That's where your hypocrisy seems! You were personally, Mr. Giannoulis, as were Mr. Zachariadis and others who then accused the Church. So, in the opinion of SYRIZA, it sticks to the church courtyard, but does not stick to the rally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u307	It's all the lies you've made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u308	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u309	And I close with this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Minister to close down so that we can continue. What can we do now? They say, "You say, there's always a tension." Please, let it continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u311	Yesterday Mrs Sia Anagnostopoulos told us - to be honest, Mr Tsipras said so - that the government should consider the military parade for the two hundred years of the Revolution, because that, he says, is spreading the virus. The virus is spreading in the parade, but it's not spreading in the protest! I give you the Greek people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u312	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u313	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u314	The shame of Greece is you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, we will not now enter this process. They're sixty colleagues to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, you have given the Minister three - four times...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u318	I gave the floor to your parliamentary representative as well as to the former President of Parliament. It will not take the floor of any Member to explain and compare with the Minister! Please! The conversation's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u319	He lied to our mouths, Madam President! Isn't that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u320	No, it's not personal at all, Mr. Comrade. Your parliamentary representative answered. Please don't make a point. We need to continue the process. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u321	Excuse me very much, Madam President, but what you are doing is not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u322	But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u323	But he mentioned his name, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u324	You know that's how we'll never end! Please! Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the dear Mr Georgiadis left me to give him some advice from my hypocritical experience on how he could avoid closing his voice. The poor guy lost her! You know, it's oxymomile, because when you yell at him with such passion and warmth for all the issues that arise, the only thing that the good god must do to him is leave him at least his voice so that he can continue to support it! But he didn't do it in the present case. However, I will go through the essence of things as I don't have any time. We have been wondering for twenty months why the New Democracy Government has beaten us. We are beaten indiscriminately by the Minister of Protestant Violence, Mr Chrysochoidis, who is also the Minister of the American Embassy, according to another designation of his status. I'm sure he's Mr. Mitsotakis' favorite minister. I would remind you that - in in introductory, popular words - he gave the positive women, the prostitutes a few years ago. After torturing them for hours, for days, they had to sign under torture a paper that they said they were aware of being AIDS carriers, contaminated their clients, as if these prostitutes were Soviet spies. After the Minister for Protection - no protection - 'Minister of Refugee Violence against the Citizen, I was wrong too - he gave their names to loyalty, of course committing a criminal offence, as you know, Mr Ploris, who is a law-approved lawyer. Because you know, of course, that none of us, especially the Minister, can give the names of people, since he has no right to do so. So we've been wondering for twenty-two months now why this Minister has been hitting society, why he's hitting the people of Exarches, why he's begging those who dare to pass through Exarches, why he's hitting students who are abducting and occupying their schools with only request to reopen their schools or when they open up, have protection so that they don't all die from COVID or come their masks. I remind you of the masks. Who remembers the masks, those primary school students masks that fit the whole body? We are still waiting for these from October that was wrong with a barbas in Koroni from whom they had ordered these masks. So while they all wonder how this happened, then they start to beat MPs, MPs who just want to exercise their constitutional rights, walk freely in the country. Then, they began to pre-convene Vice-Presidents of the House when they were not thrown down by shields. Finally, they started hitting the photojournalists who showed the public how the Minister of Violence Against the Citizens strikes his citizens, and we finally got to beat the ordinary citizen, the one who goes with the child and his wife to drink a nice coffee in the square of Nea Smyrna. And we're wondering, why all this? What is it? Is Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Chrysochoidis schizophrenic? No, it's not. All this was just a distraction. A diversion was even a risk that a barbecue could die of a hunger and thirst strike, just - and that's very bad for humanhood - to change the agenda to change the agenda and to think of something else. All this was a diversion. And the injury of the child of the group "DRANS" was a parallel loss of this distraction, in order to avoid the Greek people focusing on bills like this, like all the working bills that you have brought, like all the bills with which you have put your hand in the pocket of the Greek people and "kill" one of the few pennies - apologies for the expression of the Euro - that have remained in this pocket. All this was a diversion and nothing else. Look, it is said: "The establishment of an Investment Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Unified Anonymity Company under the name "Hellenic Chrysos Monopoly COMPANY CONTACT MATTERS AND INDUSTRY CHRYS", but it should be called "Maffeozos dressed in Greek gold steal with the blessings of the Greek Government". That's exactly what's going on here. And you want me to prove it to you? I'll prove it to you right now. If you vote this law today, Mr Minister, if the law you have drawn up - I do not know if you have been inspired by him, too, I despise - a state law tomorrow morning, at 6 p.m. - and this proves completely the substance of my remarks - if the 'ELDORADO', this colonial company, which is well aware of how colonial it is, violates the convention unilaterally and resorts to civil courts, it can rise up without any work anymore in that country and claim EUR 13 billion from tomorrow morning by the Greek Government, just because you will have done the law of that state. It will take 10 billion euros, as all special lawyers say in civil matters. That alone shows how shamelessly colonial it is! Not even in the Belgian Congo would that pass. That's enough. I want to talk a little bit about the pandemic, because it's the most crucial thing that's happening right now in our country. Look, you've lost the pandemic a long time ago. You've lost her many months since autumn. But what has been happening for three weeks and has been confessed yesterday by Mrs Constantopoulou, who is a doctor of the pneumonologist in "Juneo", if I'm not mistaken, is that we have a choice, ladies and gentlemen. Our doctors choose, as three doctors have said. I've heard it on a canal of parasitic canal in "MEGA" and you've got to ask yourself what you've done wrong with this parasitic canalarch, because he's been slightly opposed to you lately. You seem to have taken a fillet of the first ones you've assigned to him and given it to another parasitic canal or other parasitic oligarch. He's angry. I'm telling you, as a friend. Do not let Mr Marinakis be angry, because he says things that no one would believe. Yesterday, he made seven different doctors out of three hospitals saying: "Look, we make choices about who will live and who will die." They said the terms on which these choices are made. And there are very specific terms in which choices are made. It's sustainability, who has a better chance of surviving. And this doctor almost weeping, the wonderful doctor, Mrs. Konstantopoulou, who risks her life every day to be in "Thriasius", said: "We need to make a choice that is not our moral right to make it, but above all scientifically we do not know who has a better chance of survival. Sometimes you say he is the 50th, but he proves to be much more capable of living the eighth." That's immoral. And you know why it's your fault? You're going to tell me the known argument. It's because you've been warned two years, you didn't - I'm sorry, my Minister - nor a permanent doctor in the HR from the thousands of four hundred who you said a moment ago. You haven't made intensive. You've taken people who end their contract and then it's renewed. They will never become permanent, because of course you want to privatise the ESS. Therefore, your responsibility that you have warned a year ago and you have done almost nothing is enormous. And don't tell me the known argument: “And in Italy they die. And in Great Britain they die. And in France they're dying. In Germany, too, they die, because I will say something that Mr Delis will be pleased to hear. Nice to meet you. All these countries have equally, if not wilder, capitalism than yours! All these countries undermine their national health systems! All these countries intend to give their own local parasitic oligarchs the whole health system. It is therefore more obvious here that you have not just lost the epidemic, but has been making choices for a long time. We choose which one of our fellow men will live and which one of our fellow men will die. I shall end, Madam President, on economic issues. You're glowing in the economy, too. You're on it anyway. It's wonderful for you, and the institutions! Two weeks ago, on this Step I said: I'm not an economist, I'm an actor, but everyone who's finished high school knows that in situations such as total lockdown of all business - which your government has achieved with its wonderful governance - if you don't drop everything you've got and you don't have, the first week, and you're doing your cross - so I said - then the second week the double that you don't have, you don't get it, the third week is not enough for you ten times and the fourth week is not enough for you. This is because the collapse of a country in total lockdown that is not moving paper, mosquito as the people say, is geometrically progressing. You ought to hurry. I was persecuted by the Minister responsible, Mr Stagiras, saying, "We will not get as Mr Varoufakis..." because he has invoked - "to make our cross, because we are responsible. We are not irresponsible to play Greece in the dice." Prior to speaking three, ladies and gentlemen, there is the bird, Mr Stavros, at 'SCAI'. That is not a very communist instrument. Three days ago, on March 11, 2021, at 17,59, he said: “We pray God for the economy to go well. Help us!' These are the words of the Minister responsible for the economy of the country of Christos Stakoura. Rejoice him! We're on the right track! I present this because it is worth the Minister's prayers in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Leaving now, Madam President, I am telling you this: in this country where you work from terrorists to what you can imagine in order to inspire national division and you see that it is not coming out, as you see that the former terrorists are growing more mature in your government and stopping, while you continue to create national division and polarisation, you do not understand that everyone is on the streets for police rule and lack of democracy. Do you know any Greeks to love Kufondina who's killed dozens of people? I don't know no one personally. If you know anyone, meet him. But you managed all Athens to be out, because you've beenhaved as you've beenhaved. And I want to say how you've beenhaved. When you arrested those who arrested after the incidents with the special guard injury, the man of the group "DRATS" in Nea Smyrna, these people and their complaints were tortured here. I don't have time to tell them. But I'll say only one. There's a certain young lady eighteen years old. I'm very sensitive because I have a daughter of seventeen half and I'm thinking if I'd get to self-righteousness if what the girl denounces is true. After having kept her four or six days completely illegally in the GDR, during these days she was constantly under threat of sexual violence. In other words, she was told by word - they are marked - 'Here you will go...' Then they called her by grabbing her back, as she says in her statement to the prosecutor: "Let's go to the corner to get you...save." When the girl vomited, she was told: "You will spit out all the blood that you have inside you." Seventeen half was this little girl! When the girl finally asked for a doctor, she was thrown into a bouquet, commonly known as the men of MATs. They knocked off a girl's face of fists. Do you know how he was arrested? You've seen her in all the videos. She went to save a friend who had three men of the MATs and three men of the MATs beat her up after each other, fell down and then the third guy kicked her in the belly. This little girl is seventeen-half years old. Do you have any doubts that you are pushing it quickly to be a terrorist? Because I don't! And if she were my daughter, you would've reached me for being a calm man at the level of self-righteousness. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u326	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Panos has the floor from the Change Movement. Immediately after that, Mr Katrinis as Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, immediately after Mr Bougas. Then Mr. Hetas has the floor, the way I've recorded you all along. I can't do any different. What am I supposed to do? We also have to give the floor to colleagues. Mr Liupis will be given the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Ploris will be from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u327	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to stress that our country and society need a new productive model, which will exploit all productive powers. Minerals, rocks, as metals were and form an integral part of the wider natural and cultural environment and have been linked to important aspects of evolutionary human history. The culture and technological development, which made man distinguish from the rest of the world, was based on the exploitation and exploitation of mineral resources. So we need immediate sustainable investments with added value for the country and there is no doubt about this. As a movement of change we say 'yes' to attempts to attract investment. We say "yes" to mining activity, but in terms and conditions, with rules and safeguards that protect the environment and create jobs that bring maximum return to local communities and operate supportively in the parallel activities of a region. The hearing of the bodies involved in the Committee on Production and Trade on the ratification of the Convention has been a problem. Most of the operators' representatives stated that they were found in advance without even having to read the contract. So today, in my position, I will focus on the voices that have been heard in the committee without dwelling on micro-political reports on the attitude of Officer Response in terms of what it has done and what has not been done during the period of its administration on the issue of mines. Minister, substantial consultation should have taken precedence over the draft amending contract. At least you should give the final and precise text to the directly concerned municipality in order to have sufficient time for comments and suggestions on its part. It is problematic that this Convention is the product of a negotiation that has evolved without the physical representation and participation of the local society and yet includes formalities binding on local authorities. Halkidiki citizens are requesting aid, protection and quality projects relating to how this investment works and which are not fully clarified, such as the protection of water resources, the specification of earthquake engineering, the effective and concrete adoption of strict environmental conditions aimed at ensuring the region’s multi-dimensional development model, thereby ensuring the possibility of all economic activities contributing to the progress of local society. We must not forget that the birthplace of Aristotle is one of the most diverse areas in our country, as its inhabitants are employed in the primary sector, in the tourism sector and also in the mining sector. On this point, before I continue my speech, I must admit that the local communities of the Municipality of Aristotle, which are typically called Mantemochoria, have been engaged since ancient endlessly with mining activity. In other words, we are talking about a historical mining society with a right to work. I will, however, now insist on the concerns of the local players and their positions, which in turn underlined what we emphasised in the first consultation as a Change Movement. Where, then, is the special quota for the identification of workers in the specific investment activity, the so-called '90-10', which was ensured in previous years in the local society and the villages of Aristotle? The people claim to be secure and not just a priority in jobs. They ask for a certain proportion of recruitments with identification criteria not only for the direct recruitment of the company, but also for the recruitment of the contractors on a case-by-case basis. We also need to see the deficit report on the selection of suppliers, without the existence of a certain percentage here. With regard to your $80 million corporate social responsibility programme, it is good. But here too there are general references on priority. Minister, in particular, the communities bordering mining facilities and activities need additional support and support. It is a mandatory demand for residents that the anti-military protection of the Olympiad and the nearby mine located in the dangerous zone of ramps and where flooding often occurs. Also, with regard to the use of aegialos on the coast of the military, there is no clear reference to the adoption of the new decision approving environmental conditions, namely the authorisation of the project, a subject which creates further concern among the inhabitants of the region. In addition, I would mention that this contract does not transfer the obligations of the investment company arising from the existing CST and mainly relating to the environment. Once again, as in the committee, I shall refer to the unknown way in which the metalworking process will proceed. We must also be clear here from the Step of the House. There can be no use of cyanide. That's forbidden. As far as the independent environmental auditor is concerned, it is the audit body that we as PASOK have established, which supervised and ensured the company's proper and agreed activity at every level. It was necessary to set up a committee involving local communities and independent bodies. I think I've become perfectly understandable in this matter too. With regard to economics, more responses must be given. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, having mentioned the protection of the natural environment, the guarantee of local employment, the maximisation of the compensatory benefits for the local society as the basic demands of the people provided for in the current CSR and not guaranteed in the new Convention, we tabled an amendment today calling for an increase in the percentage received by the municipalities from mining leases and compensation fees from the community's quarrying activities. I think you should make it acceptable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying that the mining activity resulting from the exploitation of Halkidiki's mineral wealth is a request for everyone. We shall be expressing this clearly today. However, we call on both the best possible benefits for the work and economic development of the place, as well as for the protection of the natural environment and sustainability in our Halkidiki, as well as for the continued activity of residents in tourism and the primary sector. That was our place. That is the truth that some have refused to accept it over the years. This truth that some in Halkidiki also misled. That is our agony and that is what we will support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Pana. Good evening to you and me. Happy birthday to as many as those who celebrate. Good Sarakus. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Orders presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Application of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation and the establishment of the European Prosecutor, arrangements for the functioning of the courts and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’. Let's go to the next speaker, so we can move on slowly. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor. Mr. Hetas should be prepared from the Greek Solution, please. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at the eruption of the third pandemic wave, with epidemiological data being particularly worrying. After more than four months of lockdown we have an increased number of cases, an increased number of imports into public hospitals, an increased number of intersected patients in intensive care units, with a fullness of more than 90%. At the same time, the National Health System once again reaches its limits, since it has finally proved that the IMPs have not increased, as the government tells us, but only what has been done by donations. Two remarks: firstly, and not sooner or later, the integration of the whole private sector into the national planning of the health system should take place. How, at last, does the number have to reach - I am not telling you, Mr Skreka, that Mr Kikilia is - our intertwined fellow citizens, so that the Government, the Ministry of Health, can understand that the private sector should join this national effort? We've been talking about it for a long time. Unfortunately, few steps are taken and these are negotiated and agreed. And now the Minister is running, - obviously why developments, unfortunately, get past him - making announcements. Secondly, the government, in addition to stirring a finger on exhausted psychological and economic citizens, finally becoming the same example of ensuring compliance with the measures, without specific exceptions, without special permissions, without, of course, intelligent publicity of government officials. So, what are we asking? Essential seriousness. Those who determine the measures should respect them. We are in a state of emergency, the social climate is explosive and unfortunately, in the field of irresponsibility, it seems that the Civic Opposition has joined with the encouragement of anti-social behaviour, which is completely contrary to common sense, but also to the conditions that prevail. I really wonder, have some people in the government realised that this is not the right time and place to take out the repellents they have on post-population? It does not, of course, concern the whole of the New Democracy, but some of the extremist elements that they consider have been washed out of their past, but are not seeking to rewrite the story on this occasion. I am also wondering, is the Civic Opposition a sense of the grim reality experienced by Greek citizens? Has he realised this isn't the time for revolutionary gymnastics? And why isn't the time now? In addition to the fact that our fellow citizens are in a pandemic for what is going to happen today and tomorrow in the case of cases, in hospitals, in the number of our fellow citizens looking for an intensive treatment unit, and the effects on the economy for which the government is, unfortunately, announcing measures which, in any case, cannot be classified as support and real market relief measures. Why do we say that? Because you are regulating the pandemic's obligations which, as a whole, do not exceed EUR 2 billion, where the total debt to tax and insurance funds is currently more than EUR 145 billion. We have proposed that a hundred and twenty instalments be set for all debts to taxi and insurance funds, with 30% haircut for those who respect the regulation. Why do we say that? We say this again - and we will say it until you understand it - because the tight regulations that the government has implemented so far are increasing and the deprivation of revenue and the overdue debts of citizens to tax and social security funds. Therefore, since neither the public has revenues nor the citizens are lightened, we think that you should adopt the many instalments with a haircut of the debt. At the same time, the well-advertised coverage of fixed costs from a liquidity measure was suddenly converted into a voucher creditor to offset tax and insurance liabilities. This is certainly going to be extremely limited. What will be the criteria for this measure too? Will you once again put various cutters that do not act forbiddingly in the integration of businesses, as you do in the repayable advance on other programmes? Will someone finally tell us by the government what was agreed on Monday at the Eurogroup on first home auctions? Do you think that by transposing the calculation of ENVY and other 20 taxes based on new objective values, you only serve your election planning or do you change the problem? Is this a serious strategy of a government? Ladies and gentlemen, at some point the pandemic will end and with it it will end and any support measures and then it will unfortunately appear that the full size and impact of the crisis will be revealed. So there is a need for the debate that needs to be started, both in terms of growth rates and the investment that needs to be made, so that we can move forward, get away from the recession, but also from the consequences of the pandemic for a year ago in the economy. In this debate, therefore, we must open up a dialogue on how the resources of the Recovery Fund, the new NSRF, the Rural Development Programme through an institutional consultation and co-formulation process, which, unfortunately, has been announced to date by the Prime Minister, is not adopted. That is why we have called for the change movement in time not to exhaust the political dialogue in this miserable controversy aimed only at the internal audiences, but to have a substantial debate on the attempt to overcome the crisis. Because the crisis will be deeply and urgently required to create a coherent and credible plan. A plan that will be ours and will not be imposed on us again. For us in the Change Movement the next day's plan says we need immediate, sustainable investments, with added value for the country. There are, then, reasonable questions in relation to the bill we are discussing today. The first question is what the government has really done in the field of investment. With a cumulative disinvestment estimated at EUR 100 billion over the last ten years, Greece has just ranked a hundred and fifty-sixteen among the ninety countries in its convenience, according to the World Bank's annual report, unfortunately taking the last place among the OECD countries. The 2021 budget on the one hand provides for the recovery of investments to 23%, but on the other, in the first quarter of 2020, a 43% reduction has occurred, compared to the previous quarter and the two quarters to the governments of New Democracy. Also, based on OECD figures, foreign direct investment in Greece accounts for only 16% of GDP, while the corresponding figure is 60% in the euro area. So what did the government do? It has voted for a number of provisions that reduce environmental protection for the benefit of investment, and with these provisions any employment rights are systematically underestimated. Second question: Does the investment we are discussing have the characteristics of sustainable investment with added value? I would like to state clearly here that the Change Movement is not contrary to the private initiative nor is it, of course, contrary to the investment in Halkidiki. We say, yes, in mining activities and investment related to them, particularly when it comes to historical mining societies, such as in the Halkidiki region, but always in terms and conditions that ensure jobs, ensure environmental protection, ensure compensation for local society and local government. And we are in favour of any investment that could contribute to the development of the country and alleviate the consequences of the long-term economic crisis, but investment in terms and rules. This investment has been employing local society for two decades too, to a degree that is divisive. Ladies and gentlemen, it is outrageous that even now New Democracy and SYRIZA are investing in this division, they constantly feed back and put citizens in the middle. And the people of the region see from one government unintentionally adopting a policy which is highly challenging, I would say, to the company, in order of facilities and, on the other hand, to target investment and to baptize it illegally, to baptize it in an attempt to create impressions. From what has been said at the meetings of the committee responsible, but also at the hearings of bodies, a neutral observer would say that this is a contract in which the company has already taken much and will give in the future rather little. And it is terrible, finally, that the government has managed to incorporate so many facilities and rights concessions, without claiming, without obtaining compensatory and compensation for local society, while not ensuring that there are effective and adequate clauses to respect the terms of the contract. That is the reality, that is the truth and not the government's account that the contract is supposed to form a stable institutional framework with legal barriers that shield the investment. Rather, it shields the company, since the contract is heterogeneous, it does not guarantee the local society or protect the environment to the extent that it needs to be. It does not appear anywhere that the people of the region will benefit substantially, or that their working and living conditions will be better, or that, as you say, we will have good paid jobs. We are sure that if the government had the will, better conditions could be achieved, the well-being of the local society, the protection of the environment, but also the dissatisfaction with the conflict and divisional climate which is also, unfortunately, being cultivated under political incentives. This, however, required substantial consultation with the local society and local government that never took place. He demanded, however, and skill or indeed he demanded strong will for tough and effective negotiation, which never existed. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is essentially ahead of itself, since there is no possibility of remedial action. At best, we are talking about a problem contract that leaves unanswered questions, for which the government has not been able to give convincing answers not only to us, but to all the bodies that have been put. In vain our special speaker, Mr Arvanitidis, was trying to get answers from the Minister, especially in the most problematic environmental, labour and economic aspects of the contract. Nor did he receive a concrete response to the incomplete consultation, to the low mining fee, nor to whether the government's intentions are to incorporate the investment in the Recovery Fund for funding, as it appears that the company has not even ensured the necessary funding. Also, a voice of shepherd in the wilderness and that of our Apostle Pana who with sensitivity and due locality gave key questions, such as the issue of mining, the burden of the road network, the express commitment to exploiting the local labour force in investment, the reward fees for the local society and the economy, the comprehensive plan for using the altar of the Army and many other comments. The Government had the opportunity to formulate a fair and balanced framework, so that the local society could also be supported by the investment company to be placed before its responsibilities and obligations. However, he preferred to take the part of the company and arranged for it to be facilitated with many and vaguely "may" but little "required". Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not who is in favour of or against mining activity. The real and essential question is whether the contract in question is beneficial to the public interest. Unfortunately, it seems not. Honestly, in the Change Movement we hope that the forecasts for gross sales of 13 billion dollars will be verified or even exceeded, that direct investments will be made in the first five years, that mining charges will be regularly paid, that the company will be consistent with its tax and other social obligations, that they will be absorbed into jobs of residents of the region and that return works will be carried out. We sincerely hope that all this will be done so that everyone can benefit. We wish that, but we fear that this convention guarantees nothing but the company's interests, unfortunately creating for all concessions from now on. The fact that the Government likes to call itself investment-friendly does not necessarily mean that it responds to the appropriate investors who are ready to put their hands in the pocket in the way they should and the incentives that they must, and of course, that investment projects take into account the environmental footprint or the necessary support for local society and the national economy. The country needs, as much as ever, investment that will boost growth, but a growth that respects the environment and its benefits will be dispersed among people. It has now become the compass of the PASOK and the democratic party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr Katrin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Group of the Communist Party of Greece sent the following letter: "The signatories are asking, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to hold a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Preparation of an Investment Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Monopoly of Anonymity" and related provisions. There are the signatures of fifteen MPs. This roll-call vote will take place as soon as the debate on the bill is concluded. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ironhead in your new duties. This is the first time we've ever met you. I will not say much about the bill, because we have said enough during the debate on the objection of anti-constitutionality, and our special speaker, Mr. Velopoulos, also mentioned it. A lot has been said. One thing is certain, since we're talking about gold, some will do gold jobs. That's for sure. Some people are going to do gold jobs. But it will not be the Greek state, unfortunately, because gold, while it is the future, once again we give it free. I will simply repeat what I mentioned earlier. You have promised everything and sold out everything, all the goods, all the wealth. Everything. The gold, the ports, the oil, the airports, the telecommunications. You've left nothing. And I only ask one thing about this company. If a Minister wants to answer us by the end of today's meeting, which will arrive at midnight, and tell us only about this: will this company pay something in our home country, in Greece, in the Greek state? I have in front of me the company's 2019 balance sheet and it says, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2019 it had 70 million losses and in 2018 it had 38 million losses. How's that now? I said it before. That's how companies operate. It's the trick of stealing the state. Others, however, the state is chasing those who steal from the state and others to make a partnership with them on jobs. These things can't be done. They can't! We're going to something else now, because we really heard things in here today. It is truly sad at the very difficult times that people are experiencing outside to see such a picture within the Greek Parliament. What did we learn today from a Prime Minister's interview at "CNN"? Why can't the Prime Minister come to Parliament to announce that in a few days' time we will have some relief measures? He must speak to "CNN" and from there to reproduce the Greek media, to find out what will happen in our lives. We will read it from 'CNN'. It had to be a year to do what we said from the start. In other words, put down the logic and do what we have said since the first time. Because we only said - I really remember it as now - that lockdown does not cure the epidemic and push it backwards, that we are not getting away with it. I remember now Mr. Velopoulos saying that lockdown would only be useful to make it possible to upgrade the National Health System, organise primary health care, organise epidemiological surveillance. That's all you've done. Nothing, nothing! Only the Greek Solution shouted that the practice of lockdown increased the total mortality of the Greeks either with COVID, but with other diseases, which we have forgotten. Suddenly Greece has no kidney patients, no cancer patients, no heart disease, nothing, we forgot about them. We had said that the incarceration of the Greeks is worsening their health, because all the other diseases are neglected. Only by Greek MPs have the Greeks heard that incarceration affects education. Why? Because inequality has increased between privileged and non-preferential. We've seen poor children who can't afford computers. We saw kids taking lessons outside of supermarkets and cafes to catch some internet. I remember now, too, the President of the Greek Solution, which was associated with the launching of domestic violence, which has also been done. Who else told you about this? Who spoke first of the dissolution of the economy, of the poverty of the citizen, of the violent, very violent redistribution of wealth. Look at the Forbes list to see who got rich in the last year. Here are the world sharks, the ones here are rich. I'll testify for the Minutes. I will say something else, gentlemen of the New Democracy, although your parliamentary representative is not even here. It's only the Deputy Minister and some MPs. The fact that the pandemic is being dealt with by the Ministry of Civil Protection and not by the Ministry of Health is a confession of defeat. You are trying to manage the measures and deal with the pandemic with the Ministry of Civil Protection. These things can't be done. And what do you really answer to the cops when the police themselves say they're blackmailed? And this is a complaint official, today, on the radio, on "FOCUS", in Thessaloniki. Mr. Nikos Bozikis, who is the president of Corfu police officers, what does he say? This man says you're pushing them, that their superiors are pushing them to go write fines in the world on the sidewalks. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. Of course, it's also the big shock of the day. Here we must applaud Mr Mitsotakis or the inspiring of this certificate of vaccination or in some way the European Union's 'lady', who put him forward to propose it and today was adopted by the Commission. Mr Mitsotakis' position was adopted and he celebrated all the media and the New Democracy. Digital movement certificate. And what do they say? They say that one of the most basic rights for citizens to enjoy is freedom of movement. With what? With this certificate, with this "false", with this anti-constitutional paper. Otherwise, vaccination is optional! That's not happening! I will not say about the gift you make in Turkey with tourism. But I'm going to something that really seemed really funny at first to hear it, cute, I'd say, but I started to get upset. And I'll tell what I'm talking about. We are talking about a Greek-phobic government that is after the Greeks every day and we have here very much the Minister of Development to blame the opposition for the closure of the churches. I'll see you in a bit. So what government allows every illegal immigrant to smuggle out freely? Which government allows every hooligan, every para-state to march, to gather, to make trouble, to vandalize, to break? What government forbids Greek citizens to be in the parade for the two hundred years of Palagheesia on March 25th? Which government? It's you, don't get confused. We're talking about a total offense of the government. It is the total debacle of the government and today Mr Georgiadis comes - it is incredible! - to take the agenda, as if he took the papers out of my sight, and he says, I'll say it. And what did we hear from Mr. Georgiadis? He talked about the closed congregations, SYRIZA says, and Giannoulis counts the believers outside the congregations. I'm sorry, but who closed the churches? Who banned parades? Who's running this place, guys, so I can figure it out? Who sent the MATs to the churches? The MATs in the churches who sent them? The Government of New Democracy sent them. What are you telling us today? Who was chasing the Theophanes believers not to throw the cross? Which government did that? The New Democracy. And you're wondering? Who banned Easter and closed the churches? You. Who arrested the priests who went to communion with some believers? You arrested priests! It's never happened before. Who decided not to parade or now to be the military parade, but without a world? You've made up your mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You allow the ERIC - and I end with it, Mr President - on 20 March each hailer and every curious person to write: 'Open borders and cities for refugees and immigrants, Omonia rally, 15.00', 20 March'. I'll tell you to have it. You allow this, but it's not enough for the Greek to go to the parade. They say: "March 20, not in America, piss off the fascists everywhere, ERIC." Here, are these masters' posters that you allow, and you wonder who closed our churches? Are you serious? Listen to something and I'm closing with it. Yes, it is a constitutional, inalienable right for citizens to come together, gather, protest and march. If you allow this, you will also respect the Greeks’ constitutional right to go to church and practice their religious worship. You'll respect that, too. Yes to the marches, yes to the churches, yes to the parades. That's what we say and you won't come here today to blame either SYRIZA or the opposition for the closed churches. These are your creations, and they are the black pages in the political history of the New Democracy, which will write that in the New Democracy the churches were closed down, they were hunted faithful, priests were arrested and parades were banned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mr Athanasios Lippi is called at Stepma by New Democracy and the beautiful Magnesia. Then Mr. Boumbas will speak from the Greek Solution. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today is about updating the contractual terms of an important investment, such as the Halkidiki mines. It is a particularly beneficial investment for both the Greek State and the local economy and society in particular. Within two years of the entry into force of this Agreement, the company ‘ELLENIC FRAMEWORK’ shall submit an integrated proposal for the creation of a metallurgy plant to process gold. The operation of the plant must comply with the best available technology, in accordance with the European Commission guidelines on the waste management of the mining process. Despite the reactions on the part of the counterpopulation, the action of the company "ELLENIC CRYSOS" is carried out under the best possible conditions for exploiting our mineral wealth in this area. There is a complete and definitive settlement of the future possible claims of millions of euros against the Greek State, but in no way any outstanding administrative violations of the company, as was heard from the side of the Opposition. Research and work of the Archaeological Service is required for the construction of infrastructure, the total cost of which will be borne exclusively by the company. The company undertakes to carry out mining activities on the basis of the investment plan to be included in the contract. The investment project is an integral part of the signed contract involving $3.1 billion with the maintenance of the Olympiad and Black Petroleum mines. Of course, it would be totally absurd to demand, such as the anti-population requirement, an investment project which has been drawn up on the basis of current economic and overall data, to commit a private investment that has been awkward for twenty-five years. That is why it is reasonable to amend it. However, in order for serious changes to be valid at construction and plant level, the Greek State of course requires approval. This agreement is particularly beneficial to support and strengthen employment, especially in local society. The opposition left a peak in relation to the company's commitment to the jobs it will create. But from the very text of the Convention there is no doubt. It follows that the clear obligation of the Hellenic Republic to maintain the thousands of six hundred and fifty existing jobs and, at the same time, to create additional jobs calculated up to a thousand four hundred and progressively reach the three thousand jobs. One of the terms of the contract is the prioritisation at the recruitment stage of the local population, since of course they have all the necessary formal qualifications. The local economy is also reinforced by the company's legal commitment to prefer goods and services from the wider region. The market will be strengthened by supplies to goods and services with EUR 3.5 billion in depth - of course - years. The turnover of local enterprises is therefore increasing and this contributes to the indirect creation of new jobs. Overall it is estimated that some five thousand new direct and indirect jobs will emerge, which is particularly positive for local players as well. This is a great stimulus for the national and local economy, which will only be temporary, since the investment will last for many years. At the same time, multiple are the benefits for the Greek State. The company is obliged, in addition to the legal mining fee, to pay the additional fee, calculated on the basis of the value of the ore. Total revenues from tax burdens, insurance contributions and rights are expected to contribute to the Greek State about EUR 2 billion. Of course, the opposition blames the government for not denouncing the contract with the Hellenic FRYS, a complaint that would inevitably mean great unemployment for the entire region of natural and huge economic costs for the Greek State. The opposition referred to earlier environmental violations and to the phenomenon of widespread breaches, but the new convention focuses on protecting the environment. The Environmental Terms Adoption Decision, GDP, which has been in force since 2011, is to be renewed within 15 years in order to meet modern environmental requirements. In addition to the institutional controls, an independent audit of the environment is established, certified and licensed in the environmental management systems and with an international reputation and experience in similar projects. Very important is the reduction of the environmental footprint with the new technique of dry deposition of mineral residues which reduces their volume. The value of anti-military plant protection projects is also crucial. Once again is the use of digital means. A primary electronic environmental monitoring system covering at least four hundred points shall be introduced. Finally, it is also very important that the corporate social responsibility of the company "ELLENIC CRYSOS" should be developed. The Corporate Social Responsibility Programme will cost $80 million, of which $15 million will be directed in the first five years to legitimate cultural, social, environmental and charitable purposes. It was from the outset given the government's commitment to investment policies that will bring great profits in the long term for Greece. This commitment is becoming a reality even under current, not so favourable to the economy, conditions. Despite the reactions of those who do not want to move Greece into a country that is attractive to investment, the current government and the Prime Minister continue with the same determination the reforms that will make our country competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u334	Thank you too, Mr Lippe. I have not been informed, I apologise, that we have snatched the speaker's time by a minute. Constantine Boubas is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution and from the beautiful plain of Serres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u335	And Mr. Georgiades before I saw him red, as I am under pressure and we must be careful. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u336	Just don't bring him back to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u337	No, no, because I, too, need to be careful of my high-pressure pressure. Tolstoy was right to say the government was a company that bothers the others. That's what's happening today. Because we haven't talked about the truck. Minister, I wish you good strength. You once did a show "We live in Greece". But we must be careful, because if we dismantle the natural environment and the natural beauty of the altar of money, then we cannot stay in that country. Why am I saying that? Because we're not talking about the truck today! I don't care how much the company gets, how much the company leaves. The point is what's going to leave behind her, because when we go to hire someone or make a deal with someone, we see his resume. And you will see what this company has done in Turkey, what it has done in Romania, what it has done in other states that are active, where it is "strong through the engagement". Before I go there, I read as many studies as I can. Because what you now manage is to divide the people of Halkidiki into mountains and lowlands. And because in the Greek Solution we make proposals, five proposals will make you today on how to give people a piece of money to the mountain villages, so that you don't mock them. Because at first we were talking about five thousand jobs, then four thousand, now they are talking about three hundred. And if it's a skilled staff, what kind of contracts will these be? With 800 euros. But I'm looking into it. I don't know if you've been to this area. The first report I made - and I have experiences from the region - in 1997. I've had footage since the "TVX" that was throwing heavy metals into the Styrmonic Gulf and were chasing us to take the camera off the channels, because it was the whole area controlled. We finally succeeded and showed them - not the big channels, because it became 'hard'. There the inhabitants had an agony, because we saw this thick liquid falling into the Strymonic Gulf. The result? National Accreditation Centre: Male forty-nine thousand times above the permitted limit. Do you want me to tell you more? Lead: two thousand six hundred sixty times the permitted limit. I'll testify to the Minutes. Look at these documents. They're genuine documents that show the infection. We're talking about an astronomical amount. If people are to take a piece of money and give it to doctors, as they used to work with divine substances and fertilisers from the time of Bodossaki, it is a gift of gift. Why don't you put a traceability criterion on what we say as Greek Solution? Hotels: butter, honey, milk, cheese, only from Halkidiki. See immediately how animal husbandry and the agricultural sector would work. Is there a communication for the beekeepers in Halkidiki in this place? Anyone telling us? Why don't you put a traceability criterion from the mountainous villages of Halkidiki working in the first phase with the traceability criterion in the major tourist units? I'm not talking about a lot of specialty. Poisoners, gardeners. Immediately he'd give a piece of money. Why didn't you make those moves? So this company is inconsistent. ‘TVX’ declares bankruptcy. It leaves a huge debt, unpaid wages in 1997-1998. It's repurchased 11 million euros. They are not attributed where they should be attributed because the workers had to be paid, and that was well done. We also have a fine from the Commission, because it was 5% in the company's composition - not relevant -. And here comes ELDORADO. In 2013, I as regional advisor to the Region of Central Macedonia and today's president of our party, Kyriakos Velopoulos, as regional representatives then in the Committee on the Environment, what do we see? The committee itself was the "ELDORADO" auditor and audited. It's old history. It's old sin, ladies and gentlemen. Yannis drinks, Yannis buys. Kyriakos Velopoulos found out that at the time. I don't knit ego, but this is the story in the Region of Central Macedonia in 2013. And these measurements come to me? And today are we not accountable for the next generations, for the children and grandchildren and the grandchildren? What are we gonna hand them over? Here's what this company's doing. She's going to Turkey. It's a tough word. He goes to Kisladag and Efemcukuru. And what's he doing? Once he wants to escape, he goes and makes a subsidiary, "ALAMOS GOLD", which has been polluting the environment in the Municipality of Chanakale for years. The residents are up there. The infection is great. So it goes on to buy four years ago another company called 'INTEGRA GOLD'. Why is he doing this? But she's making her tactic "TVX". As soon as she finds the trouble she's going to her satellite. He's transferring the seat from Vancouver to Quebec to blur water. Sells four mines in 2016 in China. It is a regular welcoming company to make it with "light jumpers" as soon as it finds the hard times. And you're talking about investment? Don't you know what 'TVX' is? How will gold be extracted? Because in Pergamos, in this ancient Greek city of Asia Minor, the Turks reacted and then went to the open of Smyrna. Is it low IQ? Have you heard of Rosia Montana in Romania what has another subsidiary, GABRIEL, done up to 2010? Where we were owed, they took the ox, with the infection he's made in Transylvania. Have you heard of the gold infection in Baya Mure, from a company that worked with this company and you talk about which company that is active in Bulgaria, Serbia, Brazil, Turkey and Greece? A subsidiary company, Turkish, can manage Halkidiki's supposed gold, tomorrow. Reading some studies I see that the gold content is 0.89 grams of tuna. That's what soil studies say. I don't care where Mr. Panayotopoulos belongs, the tertiary professor. I see here that in the old mining activities over the centuries these are the black guesses that Aristotle will get. There was mining activity, but with the traditional taxi. Now the possibilities are what our ancients would do in a year, to get the company off with the instant melting method in a 24-hour. What does that mean? Gold isn't clean. They're with other ore. So, where's it going? He's going out. How's it going outside? With enrichment. So, what does Greece get? I'm not saying it. You understand that. It's not pure gold. 98% of the product is a residue. It's waste. Parts that there's the heteronit inside. What's the heteronit? Read? It's an asbestos carcinogen. And are we talking about investment when the Halkidiki Forest Cooperative is one of the largest after the Apennina of Italy in Europe since 1937 and the average logging is making two tons of wood a day? But the loggers themselves renew the forest. The study why he was talking? For 317,000 acres. They're down to 243,000. Deforestation in Skouria. It's the Squirrels, Madem Lakkos, it's the Olympiad, it's the Army. Naum comes out in 1997 in a news release of "SCAI". He was the Gospel in the news report. It presents a document which, within the limits and jurisdiction of 'TVX', was a million square metres. What does that mean? The Pangaios belonged to 'TVX', 'ELDORADO'. What are you telling us? At Kilkis there are ninety thousand acres. Research has been done in Serres. Investigations have been carried out at Drama's Grade. Research into the mines of Thrace. What are we gonna do with it? We are in favour of investment, but first we preserve national wealth. Finland, which has gold mines, had an accident and a breach in its dam. Can you trust Europe? Do we call as a Greek Solution for the Akuyu nuclear reactor? Because some people say nobody's yelling. No one speaks and the Turks break the Finnish conditions. Aren't we leaking in Kozloduy? Do you see the European Union doing anything? Listen to me. We'll be safe. We'll show it before and after. Protect Greece, the national heritage!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u338	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u339	Halkidiki doesn't belong to us. It belongs to the next generations and belongs to Greece. It belongs to our children. On the altar of money a forest, a sea and residents who can have a piece of money, do not leave them to a company that does tricks around the world, makes satellites and subsidiaries in Turkey, in Romania, and pollutes the environment. Consider, gentlemen, your responsibilities. I know it'll pass by a majority, but study it. Search the most because the messages are not well for the environment and the mother land belongs to everyone. If silence is gold, reaction often says a saying, it can be platinum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Booba. The parliamentary representative from SYRIZA Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of ELDORADO and its handling by the governments of consensual two-partyism are nothing simple. It reflects a certain perception of the issue of foreign investment, foreign investment and your own willingness to defend the interests of the country. It is more a contract that you have brought in that suits Latin America's experience. We told you that it reminds us of a contract between a country of the first world and a country of the Banana type. Finally, all this seems to be very small, listening to your argument here, to justify the content of this contract. In the negotiations - if that were to happen - you obviously did not exist on the one hand, gentlemen of the government. There was only the company. This has been reflected in all aspects of this Convention, in the way the Metallurgy Council exists, in the choice of the independent environmental observer. And you come here and you talk to us about investments. I would like to remind you of a few things, because questions were raised and we did not get any answers, but no answers. This company that took the rights to exploit these mines gave 11 million, which was - as she herself mentioned in it - a reasonable amount - or a reduced amount, because it had specific commitments, namely the production of gold? Second one. Are you questioning it? Answer us. In relation to the metallurgy method, has the Council of State stated that it is not in favour of cyanosis? He's made up his mind. You haven't commented on this so far. Not at all. You haven't said anything. Is this an activity that has a large environmental footprint? It is. We are talking about thousands of meters in the pit of the earth, in a place that has a particular not only morphology, but also has particular features. You heard about the ancient forest and the waters of Halkidiki. You realize when someone goes - just to say - and opens holes, passes under the waterbed, resurfaces, takes the water out, resets the water, that's not a simple intervention. For little Halkidiki, it's like you're changing her guts, taking her out. So is there a question, how much can he withstand such a big intervention? And here were the objections to the last Skouries mine, there they were, if we could expand this former activity. And because just this reasoning was recognized by the Council of State at that time, he said: "Look at seeing, gentlemen and Greek public, taking all this into account, I want you to produce gold. Why? To tax you and gain. I do not get enough of mining revenue, the fees you pay." And don't tell me that the 10% you come in here can cover anyone. This is a mockery, in the face of what the state would have earned if it produced gold and other metals. The company pledged to do it. The company is coming here and over the previous governments and yours and Mr Manatis - they are missing from the Change Movement, there is a co-responsibility here, and this imitisation is explained, this lukewarm attitude that finally closes the eye to the company - and we are being tabled an amendment to increase mining fees. That's great! Is that the point? You received when you were in the government, before SYRIZA, a Ministry of Energy and the Environment and you have put the environmental inspection in the fridge and the memoranda together you don't even approve of the travel costs for them to go. We were then in the government and were told by the inspectors that, because they caught the sixty-day plaque for off-site expenses, it is not justified that the agency should go to environmental audits. And we overstepped all this. We upgraded the control mechanisms. And you come now and say that the public must not do that, because it can act relentlessly in relation to investment, and there must also be forbidden profits if environmental legislation changes. At a time of rapid climate crisis that we must run and modernise our environmental legislation, you come and say that this cannot be done, because it can be detrimental to the company and if it is done then and the company appreciates it, we must give it compensation. What love for the environment is this? How does this Prime Minister who ran out to the UN and said about liberation, without even informing your predecessor, here shows that he has written his old shoes on environmental protection? How? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'm going to need more time, Mr. President. What's going on here? Finally what is this environment, where do we remember it? When we bring environmental laws that we are allowed to do in NATURA everything? Although we have experienced two tragedies and Mandra and Eye in this country, what conclusions have we reached as a state and let us legitimise and suspend what has been deemed definitively demolished on the saints and in areas where there should be no buildings? And you're inhibiting it? Is that your environmental sensitivity? Have you thought about the future of Halkidiki? Are you concerned only with the present and future of ELDORADO as long as the mining exists? Is there a primary sector? Is there a tourism? In these areas, as in the region of western Macedonia, there should be a master plan of intervention, development for the regions that we will support. Is this all about you? Oh, no. It's none of your business. You make policy on the basis of the Skouries case. You've denounced us many times. You put SKAI on the eve of the September 2015 elections to be set up outside the Ministry. The company went and rented hotels in Mavili Square, brought the workers who were sleeping there and had both meals and tents to put the scene for "SKAI", for SYRIZA who bans the investments! Well, then, we come here and say: What are the plans of this company? Why is it not consistent with its commitment to verticalise production? You don't answer that. You tell us that we are making a compromise in which we relieve the public of the unreasonable demands of the company, which have only remained at the level of the extrajudicial, when it clearly violated the fundamental terms of the previous contract and therefore lost, damage to the public. So there you as Minister today shouldn't have called the company and told her: 'Come here...' We made the arbitration case. You're selective. In certain decisions you stand. You're not standing up to the most essentials. I told you before in my previous speech. So why don't you ask the company for compensation? Mr. Wright had come in a provocative way then, he had seen the whole opposition, held a press conference and then remembered to see the government, threatening even by personal sues, in order to understand what a colonial presence means. That's not it. That's a cliché's relationship anymore. Don't you have anything to say about it? So is that the new investment framework? Is that gonna work like a magnet? You know many modern, European and large companies - because I imagine that we are addressing them, we are a European country, we are not a country that is elsewhere on the planet - which do not care what a framework exists? What if it's stable if it's modern? The environmental sensitivity factor is a parameter that determines investment options too many companies. And you are throwing all this into the beads of unusable people, because it seems to you that neither public interest nor environmental protection nor obviously respect the legal framework itself is available to you. We have proved this very specifically, you have not received an answer, the answer was the parliamentary majority's answer to the crucial issues of constitutionality which have been raised. And instead, you come again to confirm that all you think can do is suppress and bans. You have now shown this all over the last year, where you are finally content, as far as the management of the pandemic is concerned, with the logic of the physarmonica and Lockdown. It leaves the ground under your feet. You can see it. Have you screwed up, and at that time the Deputy Prime Minister comes with a nerve, with a battling speech, to speak and say what? To give thousands of young people fighting for democracy, respect for police arbitrariness, and to say they are followers of Koufantina and the Civic Opposition and a little bit of the JRC and a little bit of the MERA25. Where are you going to get? Do you believe that? Can these be said in post-cultural democracy in Greece? Have you all become "Georgiadis" and "Borides"? So now hegemony have been conquered by the people of the extreme right and of LAOS in today's New Democracy? Is what the Prime Minister said here in the previous debate last week? He said that no New Democracy official says SYRIZA has anything to do with terrorism. So what's the matter? What Georgiadis said or what Mr. Mitsotakis said? You have to decide. We can't move like this. It does not show respect for what our people are going through at the moment in the context of the unprecedented economic crisis. You cannot choose to open other fronts. You can't blackmail the world. You're setting up a blackmail scene. You go through measures that you know will rightly push people into protests and tell them that 'if you get down you will get sick'. That's cynic raw extortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u342	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u343	I shall conclude, Mr President. There, then, is a condensation of your policy and we have reached our point in this day, in the year 2021, in Greece what is happening in Erdogan's democracy, torture in GDR. So today, look at the newspaper headlines. There are specific complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House: the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, State and the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign, Interior and State Secretary to the Prime Minister for Communication and Information, tabled on 17/3/2021 a draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the chain of supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Now I'm going to give Mr. Stamenitis the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Pella. Mrs Perka will then speak and then the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ploris, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy won the elections of 7 July 2019, presenting - within and including - an overall plan for attracting private investment. It is well known that we support private investment and we believe that it is of great importance to our country. The Prime Minister himself, already in the position of President of Officerial Representation, has analysed and explained to Greek citizens the reasons why we believe the growth of the economy and hence the economic prosperity of Greek society is going through private foreign investment. Our programme has a clear and concrete direction in this regard. Inside, then, we aspire to change the country's productive and economic model that will lead us to the next day. The current government, ladies and gentlemen, has taken a decision from which it does not derogate or hesitate in the face of the difficulties in its implementation. This is the final break with the past. And a definitive break with the past in our country primarily means one thing, the consequence of words and actions. So that is what we are doing in the case of the investment agreement which today brings to plenary the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. As we all know, this is the agreement between the Greek Government and the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS", which is an agreement of great importance for our country, which is in full harmony with what we have previously committed to the development of mines in the Halkidiki region. Let's see what we've been talking about and what we're doing. Let's look at the points of the agreement. Our Prime Minister's commitment to the people of Halkidiki is that we will ensure the continuity of the investment. How's the deal? It enables the investment to proceed and to be completed. It is our commitment that the use of mines should be made at the least environmentally sound cost. So what comes from the text of the agreement as the Minister for the Environment pointed out at committee meetings? That the company has committed itself - and this has been included in the agreement - to reduce the environmental footprint by 40% in the Skourne project by the technology of dry deposition of residues, as foreseen, and to increase control of these activities. I continue with this: our commitment was to protect jobs and create new ones with the positive effects on the inhabitants of the region and also on economic growth. What do the evidence tell us? That some six hundred and fifty existing jobs are maintained, firstly, and, secondly, that another thousand four hundred direct jobs are created and also, nine hundred temporary jobs are created in the construction sector. Our commitment was that through investment the development of local society and economy will be strengthened. Are we doing this? I think so, and I think it's hard for someone to question it. In the context of corporate social responsibility, significant amounts will be invested for projects with a social concern, local development in cooperation with the local community at all times. Let us note that a large part of these projects will be carried out in the first five years. In my opinion, the most important thing is that, in terms of employment and recruitment, it is a primary criterion for localisation, as well as for the supply of goods and services, it is planned that the inhabitants and companies in the wider region of Halkidiki will be made. We have promised that private investment will operate in the interest of the Greek State. That is exactly what we achieve with this agreement through the investor's obligation to pay an additional mining fee. On the basis of the value of the ore, it is estimated that the Greek State will receive revenues of 400 million from the increase in production and the increase in the rate of mining charges in the short term, while EUR 2 billion is estimated to be the long-term revenues for the Greek public and local society. Importantly, the benefits will also be through the provision and services of Greek businesses and professionals. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all the above, we can say today that the government would be accountable for bringing about a different agreement or would be accountable if it did not bring about any agreement. We have heard a great deal at the meetings on the part of the opposition and especially at SYRIZA. There has been talk of crimes, scandals and violations of duty. When you obtain a substantial amount they have certified to the Greek courts, all this is strange. If someone listened to them and hadn't read the deal, he would have believed them and talked about a huge matter. But, you know, politics is not just a game of impression, as you understand it wrongly. Politics first and foremost and foremost are measurable results, because they will reach the citizen either positively or negatively influencing his life. From the measurable results, citizens are judged. And you, gentlemen of the opposition, were counted and rejected in July 2019. I shall close, Mr President, by repeating something I have said many times, but I believe that it is worth listening to it and listening to it by the people who are watching us. Despite the unprecedented health crisis, the obstacles and difficulties it created for the need to reassess priorities, the Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis do not derogate from their reform cycle. And we know that the more the reforms go ahead, the more our country will become more attractive to foreign investors. And that enables us to have a more competitive economy and create wealth. The ratification of the agreement we are debating today sends a message that Greece is now a different country, is a country that is investment-friendly. Our vision of the country is not limited to the narrow limits of micro-political interests, nor to the controversy for the sake of impressiveness. We have a programme that we are implementing on the basis of an organised planning aiming at Greece of the future, which is step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr Stamenitis, for keeping time. You were, as always, sir. Now we're gonna go a little bit higher in Florida. I'm calling to Stepma Mrs. Theophiste Perka from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is, we've been talking to the committees too. You don't know what to start with this story. It is a story that I have been following for many years now, as I was a representative of the TEI of Central Macedonia, with the conclusion that it has documented and today it is confirmed why this convention has come exactly. And we said you wouldn't do metallurgy, the flash smelting in Olympians can't work. We've been talking about it. That's when we were told we were against investments, I guess we were. And I told another room today, talking about the Greek, that you are not a pro-investing government, you are a government that has some friends investors. This convention, I would say, is a shame - of course you have gone too far - for the Greek Parliament. I am keenly looking - where the Minister is - and I told him in committee - to find out exactly where the gain is for the Greek State. I couldn't find it, even though I've been watching you. Besides, the Minister said to the municipal council - which is why he's relaxed - "It's okay, the paper is a paper, it's nothing. It's like marriage. If there is love, everything is fine." We are talking about companies that are destroying, taking as much as they can, which even can guarantee jobs. Do you know this investment how it started? With EUR 11 million, it took three hundred seventeen thousand acres, four hundred square meters of buildings, offices, eleven thousand square meters of urban land, three hundred ten houses, groups of breakage, deprivation and enrichment, and at the same time it was exempted from any responsibility for restoring the environment and any transfer taxes. And all these years, of course, it has been constantly damaged and, of course, it is extracting golden condensates. There are no taxes, there are no benefits. However, there is a terrible environmental disaster which will probably be completed as loose as the government is in controls and you have probably paralyzed it. The core of the contract - and I would like to start with it - was metallurgy, because that was really with all the environmental disaster - which we, of course, disagreed - could say that it would leave an added value to the place. This is over. It is not enough, therefore, that this Convention infringes the arbitration decision on the direct obligation of the company to submit a complete technical study of metallurgy, it becomes possible and the whole procedure is never completed. It's never gonna happen. I don't think the Minister has understood that. It will simply destroy the place, all the other areas of development, agriculture, tourism - because it is an amazing place - and it will get a golden condensation to export it until it ends. There is a metallurgy committee, which, if it meets again, to have a quorum, is enough to be the two members of the "GREENIK FRYS". Are we serious? In order not to extend the scope of the Committee's powers to assess the financial data, the possibility of lending the company. In the end, the government will take over and find the company's donors. It is, however, compulsory for the public to enter into a contract with the donors, but it is obliged to authorize the company, which is clearly stated, without any law being invoked, in such time as the ones you know, the tight ones, and of course, it is outside any environmental legislation that is being implemented in Europe. That is, when environmental legislation changes, it will change throughout the country, but it will not change in northern Halkidiki because it is a condition of the contract and it is a fact of public delay. Do you know such contracts you've occasionally signed, how much have they cost the Greek State? So the fact of public responsibility is that if he takes any leave he is late. We are not talking about State aid that is being violated, about environmental legislation for IPAs that has never been done, and we should, as we have said since 2011, and of course, about non-change of GDP for twenty-five plus twenty-five years, which does not exist in any European civilised country. But if the revised GFCF has more economic conditions than the existing one, it will not be accepted. Don't worry about the company. Furthermore, the role of public control is completely annulled, because the independent auditor is responsible for it. The most serious thing is that any decisions by a state and local authority are void if the auditor, who is an employee of the company, is not present. Very nice. In the next bill, can we expect public administration to be abolished? And, of course, if the contract is terminated under the responsibility of the company, the Greek State will have to compensate it with 70% of its anticipated profits. I do not know what to say first, because the bodies were Mr Papazachos, who has since spoken and said that anthropogenic actions could bring about an earthquake, as the area is very seismic, and here we have a landfill area for hazardous waste in the Kokkinolakka stream. He said it about this point. Of course, we have a lot of accidents. Then, in the environmental impact study - and it will never become any of what I understood - there was no mention of a single gold mine accident. He was talking about other accidents, about mineral oils, about different kinds of things. Recently we also had the recent accident in Brazil. However, there is also a call for jobs for all of this. I made the comment here and I'll do it again. In western Macedonia, violent demilitarization is taking place without a plan, without a plan, a mess. Two and a half thousand jobs have already been lost, but others will be lost, as that is just the beginning. But the Minister tells us it's okay. Here? Nor is it about the environment - I am sorry - nor is it about jobs. In the Annex, there are certain conditions that the company is not bound by employment and profitability. Because there's been a referral to the extrajudicial, the extrajudicial is an extrajudicial. It's a disgrace from here, from this Step to hear that they deserve a company, that they would be entitled to that money. He made an out-of-court. Nothing owes the Greek State. The company owed it because he didn't do the same thing as he needed to. I'll close while I could talk a lot of time, with a report that has an interest in having it in our minds. Determination of mineral resources holdings, i.e. what is ore, is directly associated with current markets at metal prices. As the price rises, the metal content per tonne of extracted material which is economically advantageous is reduced. The 2011 ICM was drawn up to explore the impact of investment designed and considered as a glance - because gold may also have from down here, it's worth making - ore 0.45 grams of gold per tonne of extracted soil material for underground mining and 0.18 grams for surface mining. However, the determination of the gaze was made on the basis of the calculation of the price of the gold 425 dollars per ouya. Today's price has already fled for many years. Why am I saying that? Because the geometry of the excavation and the dimensions of the pit in the slags is questioned. The more gold rises the more we will expand, because the company will obviously want to have more profits, because it will be said to be ore and look to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u348	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Plearis, has the floor. I would ask that there be the same quietness and coolness on the left, as was Mr. Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary representative following the speech of the Chief of Staff, but also of all the Members of Parliament who have dealt with the bill and various other issues, I come to give some answers in order not to give a wrong picture. I shall begin first of all with this because if neither the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman nor the Special Speaker of Mera25 had put it, I would consider it self-evident that we should not discuss it. But we must not create incorrect impressions that some seek. Referring to the car accident that took place outside the House, first of all Mer25 -- Mr Arsenis put it - he said that from the first moment he was following the case. Mr. Skourletis referred to any cover-ups. It is really a great pain for a family facing this problem, we have a car accident from which one of our fellow citizens was in this situation and his family grieves, but it is completely wrong that we go through and talk from this Parliament that there may be a cover-up. And here I want to stay in the attack that took place across the internet across Dora Bakoyannis. Why is anyone talking about covering up what he says indirectly but clearly? It says the cover is about Dora Bakoyannis. It is challenging because, ladies and gentlemen, all the procedures provided for were carried out. And I'm not just telling you in my legal capacity. I'm telling you, like a man I'm sympathetic to, because in the year that has unfortunately passed, I've lost my mother from a car accident. The man who hit her is not the killer, as they write on Twitter. Each of us can be found in a car accident and will be punished for the car accident, how much more is the one who is his partner. It was reasonable not to initiate the self-evident procedure, ladies and gentlemen. And you know why he doesn't move in these cases? And I'm telling you not only as a lawman, I'm telling you again because I've been through it. Because, unfortunately, one should see the development of man in order to reflect the accusations he has to make. If a self-sufficient procedure is initiated, it means that the other one is tried the next day. But there is no such offence, because everyone expects to see whether the man will be saved or die, as we have in this case. While a family really came out with a thrill and with a respect for what has been done, we come here to politicise an issue that the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has thankfully closed, with the aim of Mrs Bakoyannis. Even the man who caused this accident, we read online he's a murderer. And think that all of us can get together in this position. And I'm the one who sadly caused my mother's death. I don't think he's a murderer. I'm sure he didn't want to drive the car and get a pedestrian to kill. It hurts, as this family hurts, it hurts everyone who has a victim of a car accident, but let us not get caught up in such a way that it is possible to imagine that outside the Greek Parliament there was a cover-up for something that in the end is a crime that cannot be blamed for a more moral deceptiveness. It is a crime that, unfortunately, will be punished by anyone who did it, it will hurt a family, but it is a crime that does not have the characteristics of a felon to make comparisons unlucky. And this one has to close down here. I come to what Mr Alexis Tsipras said about the health system and what has happened. There is certainly one difficulty on the left many times to do economic acts and to come to an economic result. It has little, many times, relationship and sympathy with economic indicators and economic approaches. But let's go see what's happened to the National Health System, because the numbers are specific. The beds received by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis were five hundred fifty. How many do we have today? We have a thousand four hundred beds. What's Mr. Tsipras' argument? Mr. Tsipras' argument is that you come here and are added from the government side and some beds that theoretically existed, i.e. the private sector or the military hospital beds. The private sector for days SYRIZA has had a hundred and seventy beds and has increased them, it now has two hundred and twenty, for it is precisely because the New Democracy Government has been able to increase beds, with a bill - I see colleagues here who were in the Committee on Social Affairs - that SYRIZA voted against. The private sector has thus increased its beds, which are at the service of the public sector. The beds of the military hospitals are sixty-four. So even add these numbers which are mentioned, again the added beds are more than twice as much. You don't want the thousand four hundred beds? And there's an argument there, because they weren't beds that the public sector could use and we managed to use them. We're in the thousands of double beds again. We've got more than twice the beds in a year. And right now that we're talking - because it's not just about making ten thousand beds, you have to have the respective doctors and nurses, who don't necessarily have these doctors and nurses - within this whole context we have a thousand four hundred beds, we have the nurses and the doctors, we have ten thousand more staff. Appointing us whether it is permanent staff or not has anything to do with the pandemic. This is another conversation we're going to have about the National Health System. At the moment, however, they are available in the National Health System with four thousand permanently, with a thousand two hundred people over the last few years and ninety - three positions for doctors currently running. How did the private sector get in with the public sector? Because we heard that too. And here, Mr. Tsipras misinterpretation of the names of Mr. Petsa and Mr. Gerapetiti. What was the famous "fashioned money"? The "flyed money" was about the order policy you invoke. What did the New Democracy Government choose? The pandemic wants to be handled by the public sector. So, first of all, the entire control is in the public sector. How was the private sector used, and was that how it was used? In the first phase, it had to strip beds from the public sector and therefore, incidents of non-COVID to go to the private sector because we just wanted public beds to have the complete control of the pandemic. This was about simple beds. When it got to a point where you need more beds, you didn't need any requisitions because you're in agreement with private clinics and you use these simple beds, which you're indebted to with the pulmonary KEN for two. This is the CEN that's come out for COVID. So we get simple beds in the private sector for COVID, but we get too many beds simple for non-COVID to empty positions in the public system and have full control of the pandemic. What about the ITHs? I hear all the wings talking about an IF. But, since March 2020, there has been a complete agreement with the private sector and the whole private sector IF beds have also been given for the use of the public with a hospital of EUR 1,600, which is 800 times two, because there is no difference in paying the patient. What if we had a requisition, ladies and gentlemen? The JRC says something that is not supported either in the Constitution or in the law, but it says so clearly. She says she's requisitioning. I mean, I'm going and I'm taking it and working for the other guy without getting paid. I mean, he's not gonna make anything. That's what he says. But that's not what SYRIZA says, but it's not what Mer25 says, no one else says. The order according to the rules, ladies and gentlemen, is that as soon as I declare the order, either I use it or not, that is, I have a licence or a full of bed, I pay it. So there Mr Petsas told you about 'finished money'. Because from March to October, when we had no need for a private IF bed, it would mean that if we had commanded them, we would have paid a couple of IF beds for 1,600 or - I would tell you what you said - for 800. Do the calculation to see what the Greek State would have paid. We came to an agreement that we pay a certain hospital when we use it. So we have all the private sector IDs at the service of the citizens, but the Greek taxpayer will only pay when he is used. No one is required when there is no agreement anymore. If you really need more beds tomorrow morning - not ICUs, because you've taken them all, if you need simple beds above - and you need a private sector to come in and say I don't give them, then you're going to order. But when you have agreed with the Greek Clinics Association and constantly give you beds where you need and all the private sector has been recruited to relieve the public system the way I described you, what is the order chat I hear every day in every announcement of SYRIZA, when you have all beds available? And after a year now, while Belgium had to send people next to Germany, while Portugal has been in a situation where it is not able to withstand cases, while all the countries have crashed, we, yes, with the problems, which were the weakest National Health System and because of the ten-year crisis which has been and largely there has been a reduction in the capacity of the National Health System, have so far been able to provide the Greek patient with all the treatment provided for and to have beds. We need to understand, it's the other thing Mr. Gerapitris said, that no matter how many beds you can do, if the cases are constantly growing, it's not an argument I have beds and I'm letting 30 thousand cases. Because the person who will be hospitalised in bed even has the opportunity to get in, who has it even now that we are talking about, unfortunately many of our fellow citizens - a large proportion of them are mentioned - will not succeed. So the important thing is that people don't get sick, limit the disease. And that was where Lockdown made sense, and as it was applied, it has the results. And since fatigue has come, we are going to the next stage, which we say, and we are looking to find out what possibilities are there, to open up some actions, but there is no risk. I'm coming to a second element. I won't use either of my dentology or my tritology. Just two more minutes, Mr President, I am going to work because I understand that there are many colleagues who want to speak and wait patiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u350	Yes, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Tsipras mentioned something offensive from this step. He said: "You didn't put doctors and you took a thousand five hundred special guards to beat the world." That was just his phrase. Go tell that to the special guard, who is right now in the 401 Hospital and accepted the attempted homicide, ladies and gentlemen. Because he came in with the last proclamation. When Mr. Tsipras sent Mr. Spirtzis to visit, to tell him Mr. Spirtzi to say to him: "You are untrained and have you beat and beat the world." Because when this Step is heard by phrases - which have been heard - about the ashes of action, when it has been heard that the incidents are done by policemen, when it is heard that you have put all of them to beat the world, I am sorry, but have not heard all of you who are targeting the cops? And yes, Mr. Mitsotakis said that wherever there is a problem, we will deal with these incidents in a series of actions. You, however, come and politically put the Greek policeman as a whole. You accept the complaints a priori. I am referring to Mr. Gregoriadis and Mr. Skourletis. Do you consider complaints to be wrong? Because, in other words, some have denounced in the editors' Newspaper to say that it is over, that we do not control anything. Not to listen to the side of the Greek police saying what has happened, but to listen to the complaint and accept it. Because the complaint is made by someone against the police, we have to accept it and never listen to the police side. So in this way - and I conclude, Mr President - you have the responsibility, because even the phenomena that you say of the police domination or the marches are from the last Sunday that happened. Twenty days ago, you protested in favor of Mr. Koufantina. And let me inform you that one more request was rejected in the Council of State. I read it just before I went to Stepma. You have taken a position that his request is correct and legitimate, while all the courts of the place have not accepted it as legal. And yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, it is crocodile tears when you come here and say that we have a pandemic problem and that we have a problem with the ICMs, while you are those who every day, every day, every day, you are protesting. Mr President, the terrible thing is that while they will be calling on the second hunger strike tomorrow, which Mr Koufantinas can do, we are being asked to make a parade for the two hundred years of the Greek Revolution. Mr. Heta, because I want to be fair, because I heard your Chief, I want to tell you that I had been up from the start. Any man - I'm not saying about someone who believes and saw the desecration of the Virgin Mary, even one who doesn't believe it, but respects the faith of the other, because that's what all our civilization predicts - he sees a stray literally, to be a man, to have the image of the Virgin Mary and to have some people take it down, to be fucked, to be smashed, to be beaten, not reacting, and not saying anything. Shouldn't we all condemn this incident? And I won't say what would happen if it were the Quran. I consider this to be a symbol of religious faith, of the pain of the other person who believes. A world that - supposedly - is interested in rights and who yells goes and messes with Virgin Mary. He doesn't need you to feel sorry for him, only to see where his eyes have come from when his enemy is the Virgin Mary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Gregoryade, you have the floor until the Step is cleared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u355	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u356	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u357	Dear Mr Pluri, I would like to give two answers to you, always in peace and mutual respect. With regard to the complaints I have made, I have adopted a complaint and I say this to the National Delegation in public. The complaint concerns eighteen years. I believe, because I believe that you are well-qualified, that if you happen to see it - if you want to see it - the video of the eighteen-year-old arrest, which is undeniable - three policemen catch a eighteen-year-old girl, one is pushing it over the other, the other is throwing it down and kicking it in the belly with boots of the men of MS - anyone who even watched the way she was arrested, retrospectively, would adopt her complaint, which was not made in the authors' newspaper, but in the prosecutor or in the interrogator, who was on duty. That's for restoring the truth. The second thing I have to say is this, which you say many times. I don't think you're slandering us with intent. But it is good to restore the truth. We did not go to any gatherings, nor we - I am not talking about SYRIZA, but I believe neither he - nor anyone else, of support for Kufontina, as, as you know, always in this place, the provocation of terrorism works at the expense of the Left. As you know, reinforced is the coming out of authoritarianism and repression every time some foolish terrorist kills one of our fellow men. Therefore, we went there to avoid the collapse of legality. As regards your argument - which you are also a lawyer - that three or four courts have made decisions against the objections of Koufantina, you know well, Mr Ploris - that you know better than me - that they are decisions where one says 'We are not competent to answer' and the other says 'typically'. On the substance, the request for Kufundina has not been examined.’ You know he's right in procedural terms. You know it was your photographic law, sadistic and vengeful, because he was a terrorist. That's the law you broke. This law, which you voted a few months ago, says he has the right to return to prison for sixteen months. We went down to the streets to guard the lawfulness and no one else's, now or next terrorist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much, Mr Gregoryde. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from Boeotia and the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u360	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, our country certainly needs, as ever, an investment shock. And of course, large-scale foreign investment can mark this, mobilise many investments by Greek larger and small enterprises. However, today's bill is the confirmation of the usefulness of the wise saying: "Get away from what it shines if we don't know well, because it finally shines." Today, after the given policy of attracting investments from the previous government, we are going to another end and witness a debate of a convention, with unclear points, with much more 'possible' than 'commitments' in terms of investors. This is a contract negotiated by the New Democracy Government, which we either have to vote for or vote against, without unfortunately being able to change something and without consulting the local community, which, in any case, must not be dispersed again. We are still paying the marble of conflicts, polarization and division at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a contract which promises a great deal about employment and job creation in the region. A thousand more four hundred permanent jobs are reported by communication drum impacts, which are, in fact, a positive development. However, if one looks carefully, one will find that these thousands of four hundred positions are in Skouria and from these nine hundred are about the permanent ones and the rest are contractive. In the rest of the projects, it is worthwhile to increase jobs. Our rapporteur has asked the committees and answered, Mr Minister, he has not taken it. He asked: 'These jobs concern only the extraction of the material and metallurgy'. There was total silence. The main thing, however, is that, unfortunately, the company is not bound either by jobs and everything depends on its profitability. In addition, there are no clauses for specific commitments, for recruitment by residents of the Municipality of Aristotle and the communities next to the mines and, of course, the risk of losing positions in other sectors, for example, primary production and tourism. The famous 90% rate included in the joint ministerial decision to date is missing, as is the company's commitment to the jobs that will be generated by the contractors and super-contractors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is no monitoring committee on the implementation of the contract by the parties, which at regular intervals informs the Greek Parliament, but also the local society if the conditions are met or the conditions are not complied with. We in the Change Movement are in favour of the need for the exploitation of mineral resources and the creation of new jobs in a specific context in terms and rules that will benefit both local communities and the Greek public, while ensuring the environment and parallel activities and will be adopted as a whole by a specific national mining policy for the country. The problem and the gray ones - I shall say - of the relevant agreement that the Ministry of the Environment has to answer and does not answer, questions and gaps are raised and there are unnecessarily shortcomings. For example, I will refer to eight: There is no confirmation of a specific rate of determination of the employees from the local community of Aristotle, to refer to 90%. You have not mentioned and there is no increase in the rate of fees in the municipalities where the mining activity is carried out. There is no clearer definition of what should come from local society and the supplyers. There is no complete plan for the use of the troop's sanctuary. The best management of water resources is not demonstrated. There is no emphasis on anti-military policies to protect the mine. There is no indication of the low environmental footprint, a clear recovery plan with the lowest environmental burden. There is no provision for a monitoring committee involving local communities, independent bodies such as Greek universities and environmental organisations that will supervise and ensure the proper and agreed activity of the investment company at each level. No clear answers are given on the way in which the mining process will proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, this Convention is a bad contract. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by seven colleagues from the Change Movement, which relates firstly to increasing the percentage received by the municipalities from mining leases to over 40%, and secondly to the direct performance of the green fee by quarrying in communities. We call for this amendment to be accepted by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, local government needs to take the maximum possible return benefits, which is called on by the central state and the Public Investment Programme to do substantial projects and measures to support the climate crisis, as well as social protection and care projects. Unique indicators for judging and evaluating our development potential and prospects are the real economy, are the performance of the private sector and, above all, attracting investments that are capable of producing both economic and social benefits. With this bill, Mr President, unfortunately these necessary and capable conditions which protect the environment and work and which are a prerequisite for exiting the current crisis remain to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr Mulliotis, and respect for the time. And we're going to New Democracy to the Cycladic Mr. Philipbo Load. Then we will go up to Evros in Mrs Anastasia Gara and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece will speak. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new upgraded investment agreement to be ratified by this bill is an investment of national importance and national importance. The Government of Nea Democratakis and Kyriakos Mitsotakis faithful to its election commitments amends and proceeds to restart the Greek public procurement with the company "ELLINIKIKI FRYSOS S.A.". This amendment ensures the smooth development of investment and maximises the benefits for both the national economy and local society and the environment. Now, because time is not enough for us, I will not dwell on the benefits that are important and much. I will only dwell on the new provisions that incorporate best international practices and the most modern technologies to further reduce the environmental footprint. All these days we hear the Vice-Presidents support this investment and call for the withdrawal of this bill and this new investment project, and I would like to dwell in particular on the major opposition colleagues. In a country where progress is so deeply confused with the reaction, the then-government SYRIZA - ANEL with its obsessions and ideas has worked consistently as an obstacle to investment growth and the creation of new jobs. This accepted all three applications for the cancellation of the company "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" against the Ministry of Environment and Energy. These decisions, ladies and gentlemen, confirm the criticism of the previous government in the Skouri case. A negative attitude to the investment, but also to the employees in the enterprise and the wider region. A strategic issue for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, is not to invest in Halkidiki by a company of western interests, thereby promoting the policy of sabotage in those investments that do not serve your own interests. The big issue is while in recent years SYRIZA has been primarily leading in anti-investment mobilisations, the entire previous period from 2003 to 2011 was evident in favour of this investment. This character of SYRIZA and this deafening silence of the fakes of that time reveals to him the fact that in May 2010 your own press organ "AGE" published a full-speaking advertisement of "ELELENIKIKI FRYS" which spoke about one of the biggest investments the country has ever known and with which the company was proud to work "with society next" - as you always say - and that it protects "the environment with tangible solutions". I therefore submit these three evidence as of 2 May 2010. You had a insert with the ad at the time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In a few words, the reading public of "AGEY" and any third party involved received in 2010 the message that SYRIZA had changed its trophy from the time it was running with the KKE - remembering very well - the Canadian company "TVX" became in favour of the investment. All this changed slowly - and I heard Mrs Perka and others say about all this - when Eldorado bought the shares in the mines. SYRIZA - to remember - smacked some excuses. In other words, this publication was simply an advertising of the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" and that at that time the "SGEI" was faced with various problems from the lack of funding. In short, he accepted that he received conscious funding before selling the shares in Qatar and then "ELDORADO". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. This post by “AGE” in conjunction with the suspension of mobilisations in the area was originally sending the signal to Qatar, but mainly to “ELDORADO” that SYRIZA has been made by an enemy at that time, before 2003 but up to 2011, a great friend of the investment of “ELLENNIKIC CHRYS”. So SYRIZA played the role of the Avadder. It is clear, however, that since this "ELDORADO" did not intend to be a protagonist in a new resale, but began the work of mining gold, all kinds of reactors, as you well know, were determined not to let it go. With the present bill the performance "SYRIZA friendly to investment" is transformed into a theater of irrationality, which discredits the country internationally and endangers thousands of jobs. You have, it seems, declared the war on the biggest direct investment in the country for your own ideological reasons. The real crime, of course, will be to cancel once again an export strategy in a country that has as its central strategy the attraction of foreign investments and is lagging behind in the middle of a crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, by reopening this investment, we are taking a very important step in exploiting the country's mineral wealth, but also in ensuring the necessary legal and economic stability, which requires such a significant investment, with a stable and transparent framework for the development of the licensing of projects. At a time like this, which pandemics our country and has suspended investment and business activities, Greece must show a serious but also friendly investment person toward both national investors and foreign investors. We must and must change a page in the field of the country's mineral wealth by developing infrastructures, new jobs, new technologies that reduce and the environmental footprint. I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this draft law on the ratification of this investment agreement. This is a flagrant investment for the Greek economy, which ensures the sustainable development of both society locally and as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Loading. Mrs. Anastasia Gara is called to Stepma by SYRIZA and Exact Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a crime in here today, an environmental crime, a social crime, an economic crime, a horror, a horror of huge scale, which brings the signature of the New Democracy and of Mr Mitsotakis himself. With this convention that we are discussing today, a convention of colonialism signed by the Government with the "ELLINIKIKI CHRYS" our country is first converted into a special economic area starting from the region of Halkidiki. There'll be more to follow. It is a contract that has no reward benefits for local society, it violates the law, it in no way guarantees jobs and their quality, it undermines growth and the environment, it destroys the country's own interests. It is a contract for the company that provides for the exclusive and unobstructed use of the Aegean, the beach, and port works without any benefits and obligations for the State, which provides scandalous tax exemptions for the company and leads to a huge loss of revenue for the Greek state. It is a contract that is not just a development contract, not just a partial investment, as my colleague said before, but it binds and binds the hands of the Greek state, self-government and other bodies for the next twenty-five plus twenty-five years in the interests of the public, while at the same time providing for incomprehensible clauses and compensation for this company. It is therefore a contract written at the offices of the "ELLENIC FRYSOS" and its signing was a pre-election commitment by Mr. Mitsotakis. We all know that. After all, representatives of this company were glad to say that they were looking for a cooperative government and obviously found it in the face of Mr Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out to be a priority for this government, neither the retraining of the pandemic nor the strengthening of the national health system, nor the support of the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, producers, farmers, workers, young people who are now being tested very hard and are being tested not only by the pandemic, but also by the catastrophic policies and choices of that government. This government, however, perceives pandemic as an opportunity, in order to make a mess, to turn our country into a colony of a company. With the society in quarantine and constraint, which the current conditions stress, the government has found the opportunity to either pass the most reactionary, conservative bills or to bring bills like today, which is an epic of serving certain strong economic interests that have obviously helped it to come to power and to government positions. And I will repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of this convention creates a special economic area in our country, a colony - a society that does not apply national law, a colony where there will be many exceptions in relation to the other regions, an area where mining will be a monoculture and no other activity will be developed. And I'm wondering, is this investment conceived? Are we talking about growth? At the same time, I will repeat, there are no jobs and rights to be guaranteed. The environment and the economy of the country are being destroyed, even administrative interventions are not allowed in this region. A state is finally being created in a damaged, traditional environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid of this contract. And I'm afraid you're voting for the tradition and destruction of our country. It scares me because I see in front of me the model of destruction that is also planned for Thrace. Because your next step is to install the gold mines both in Rhodope and Evros, to create a new special economic zone there, a new colony in Thrace delivered to the interests of the "ELELENIKI CRYSOS" surrendered in the end to destruction. Because your so-called development model is the destruction of the environment, the exploitation of workers, the desertification of our regions, the abandonment of any other activity, the abandonment of agriculture, livestock, fisheries, tourism, production and trade. The crocodile tears you shed from time to time and the majestics for the development of Thrace through nice big words, but also intergroup committees for development in our region, are as hypocritical as this convention is. And we all know that you've already implemented the tradition of the Perama Thrace area to the goldhouses. It was not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, the statements made by the executives of ELDORADO GOLD some time ago that they spoke about extending the gold mining to the Perama of Evros. They even announced the preparation of an environmental impact study and are expected, as they said, to receive the green light from the government next time. This explains why your study is to vote some time ago before legislation which is now binding on the specific territorial frameworks that go beyond the regional ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. And I would remind you that the regional planning framework for Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, which was adopted during the governance of SYRIZA, described a model of developing various activities with respect for the environment, with respect for work, with respect for health, sustainability, the geographical location of the region, giving tools for the development of tourism, agriculture, fisheries, trade, investment, but not such catastrophic - emblematic, as you say - investments. It states explicitly that gold mining is not allowed, which is incompatible with the development model and the environmental characteristics of the Thrace region. However, you also prepare the ground institutionally, to overcome these limitations and to overcome the protection of the carpet society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I close Mr President and thank you - the New Democracy Government, delivered and dependent on economic interests, is certain that it will very soon attempt to expand mining activities in Thrace as well, ignoring the bulwark front of the local society against gold mining, and that scares us. The Thracians, however, who continue to experience this government’s mocking and mocking, will not easily deliver their land. Remember that. Because we have announced for years that for us gold is our forests, it's our seas, it's our water, it's our health, it's our job, it's our life and life of our children. And all of this in Thrace, we do not negotiate what 'batters' are and if this revolting, destructive government brings us. In your plans you will find us in front of you, as well as the previous times you have attempted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gara. The Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, is called at Vima. The next triangle of speakers with a natural presence that will follow is Mr Kotsos, Mr Maravegias and Mr Mamoulakis. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. We have just watched a particularly insulting and degenerative confrontation between the government and Acoustic Opposition, which attempts to cover up the criminal responsibilities of the current government in how it manages the health issues, an image in the health sector that has been shaped by all the governments and falls into the logic of health trade, the coexistence of the public and private health sector, which has led, in other words, this logic of understanding, the deterioration of the public health sector, the reduction of primary care, the closure of hospitals, which have been made by all governments. Of course, it is at a time and at a time when dozens of seamless people are out of my mind. So these developments confirm what we had stressed at the first moment as a JRC, that no matter how necessary mass vaccination is, it cannot be enough and it is not enough - because the government had placed all hopes in vaccination - because, on the one hand, it will be a long-term process and, on the other, the course of vaccination is, in fact, tested by the most severe competition between pharmaceutical groups and among capitalist states. The example of the 'ASTRAZENECA' vaccine and the embargo from seventeen European Union countries is precisely one of these competitions. That is why we have stressed and insisted that we need to arm ourselves with immediate measures of the public health system, with an IF which should have been done, with the recruitment of permanent health and nursing staff, with the operation of primary health care on a 24-hour basis, with real rather than racing with the clinical authorities of the private health sector, without compensation for the owners and, of course, with all the necessary measures, in the areas where the pandemic is over-transmission. And such areas are the means of public transport, the workplaces, so as to tackle the spread of pandemic. From this point of view, as a JRC, we welcome the participation of tens of thousands of workers in the present rallys organized throughout the country by the trade unions, by health associations, by the protection of public health, to protect the rights of workers who are being smashed by the anti-population policy of the government, against the authoritarianism of the government, an authoritarianism that is the other side of the anti-population policy. Mr President, we have followed a very tough controversy, in terms obsolete in relation to the convention which the Government is currently bringing for ratification, a convention which characterises Latin American countries, a Banana Convention, a colonial convention, and a Democratic Opposition. But what do they hide? What are they trying to hide, expressing these steep objections? They are trying to hide that the regime of investment and contract is based on Article 107 of the Constitution. This is the red line on which this contract is based and formed. On the substance, the same regime under Article 107 would apply both to SYRIZA and to the Change Movement, since they are in agreement with Article 107 of the Constitution that protects it, which confers provocative advantages on foreign investments in our country. This is therefore the essence of the matter. And, of course, Article 107 refused to abolish it, as was the JRC's proposal in the recent Constitutional Review. What does Article 107 say? On substance it gives constitutional, legislative power to the Decree-Law of the Kingdom of Greece, in 2687/1953, where Article 8 of that decree, which I shall table, provides scandalous tax incentives for investments made by abroad. Article 10 refers to a specific preferential treatment for investment from abroad in relation to similar investments made by domestic capital and Article 11 prohibits any attempt to compel such investment by a bank. And someone's gonna say what the JRC says doesn't really stand. However, the Convention itself comes to disprove these claims, because in point 19 of the Convention what it says clearly, where it says about currency and the protection of foreign capital? It says that this protection is based on the Specific Legislative Decree of 1953. This very point also highlights the enormous responsibilities which not only the government, but also the other parties for this leontian convention, which is coming today to be adopted, without being able to be amended by the Greek Parliament. And it is no coincidence that for this convention, which has celebrated and was published by the Ambassador of the United States, the homogeneous and previous government, and today's Government, which is particularly interested, pays particular attention to the promotion of the US energy designs in our country, energy projects linked to the imperialistic designs of the Americans and NATO in our region, both in terms of energy issues, the port of Alexandroupolis and Kavala, with liquefied natural gas, but also in terms of geostrategic designs of imperialists for the encirculation of Russia, with the utilization of the port of Alexandroupolis, with the new base created in Alexandroupolis, but also in Greece, with the new US bases created, as well as the facilitation of the American fleet that operates in the Mediterranean, as well as the development of the Mediterranean shipyards and other ships. And, of course, these investment plans in the United States are directly linked to the efforts of the Greek bourgeoisie for geostrategic upgrading in the region and to its deeper involvement with imperialist designs. On substance, this contract follows from the previous original contract of 2004, which secretly negotiated by the Government with the employer, and this new contract makes adjustments to the new investment projects serving the employer. From this point of view, it does not simply stop the guarantees provided by the 1953 Decree-Law, but also provides other facilities for entrepreneurs, such as the automatic compensation clause in the event that there is a responsibility for a loss of revenue from the State to the company, while it is not provided otherwise, if the company does not comply with the contracts and obligations arising therefrom. Secondly, they are committed in the interest of the company the port, the aegialos, the water resources, the whole of the region's productive potential. This investment has priority over any other economic activity, and of course it is up to the independent environmental auditor's reports, which is paid by the company itself, which is, as you know, Yiannis is buying, Yiannis. And, of course, new incentives of an economic nature, since the non-manufacture of the gold processing plant makes it easier for the company to export the mixed ore, hiding the content in gold and therefore everything the company says is on the basis of what it will be doing, concealing the essence of what gold has been exiled and, indeed, by degrading and exploiting its exports to subsidiaries in the Netherlands, which is also the official tax haven of the European Union. From this point of view, Greece is of course also conducting this convention as any other country of the European Union. From this point of view, it is clear that there is absolutely no concern for the workers and there could not be, for the huge problems of the health and safety of workers, the abolition of the status of contract workers in the mines of Halkidiki. From this point of view, therefore, we as a JRC have shown that this is a letonium contract which must not be approved, but which must be withdrawn, because it is at the expense of the mineral wealth of our country and, indeed, of gold which is a rare and valuable mineral, because it delivers this contract and other natural resources to the company, it is at the expense of the mining workers, and it is at the expense of satisfying the people's needs and the environment. From this point of view, Mr President, we believe that there is a convenient controversy for the government, that of confrontation - a dispute between business interests - should mines or tourist activity be carried out in particular. It is a dispute that is taking place in the context of the opposing business interests. As a JRC, we are not going to be involved in such a confrontation. We stress that through this process they must be answered and it is an opportunity to answer a number of important and serious questions. The main question for the JRC is who owns natural and mineral wealth. Who's running and running production? Who enjoys the wealth produced? Who is he on the substance that designs and implements health and safety measures, environmental protection measures? Who is applying them and on what criterion? These questions are answered by the JRC in full, and we say that the answer lies in the socialisation of mineral wealth, in its use in a higher way of organising production and society. In this context, the JRC does not say no to mining any ore that can documently help raise the standard of living of the Greek people. In this context, mining activity will be developed and an integrated assessment will be made of the location of each unit, ensuring that environmental impacts are minimised, what and when they are extracted, how labour and scientific potential is distributed, the balanced development of regions and sectors of the economy, while at the same time combined measures for the hygiene and safety of workers and the protection of the environment. All this natural mineral wealth of our country, the infrastructures of mining activity and, in particular, the skilled workforce and scientific potential employed in the mining sector will also be the basis for the development of the socialised industry in the context of the socialist organisation of production. In conditions of labour power, with a central scientific design in production where the concentrated production measures constitute social property, the mining worker, the worker, is released and participated in the organisation and control of production, enjoys in society the wealth he produces by covering all his combined needs, i.e. covering objectives that in capitalism are contradictory to each other, such as on the one hand the exploitation of all production capacities, the upgrading of the worker's position, the fulfilment of modern needs and the protection of the environment. On this road, the JRC calls on the working class and the people of the region, but also on our country as a whole, to go in conflict with government policy and with the interests that serve the needs of capital today and sacrifice the fulfilment of their own needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I don't see Mr. Maraveya apologise. I will give Mr Kotsos the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Loverdos, who has an obligation and has to leave. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u369	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since this morning I have been following with great interest the SYRIZA officials, the SYRIZA colleagues, struggling at who will use the heaviest, most destructive expression in order to describe the bill. 'Crime', 'colonial', 'colonial contract','share on the idea of what will happen'. All right, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that with this word you are approaching the Greek society of today? Is the Greeks and Greeks what they expect is destruction or creative proposal, vision, effort for a better tomorrow? At the same time, SYRIZA continues to invoke the pandemic in today's bill, obviously because he cannot monitor the legislative work of our Government and proposes what he knows well, inaction instead of action, inaction instead of creativity, stagnation instead of constant effort to raise the Greek society and the Greek economy. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and colleagues of Parliament, it is now, especially at the moment, that our country needs actions and initiatives that can create the conditions for getting out of the economic crisis created by the pandemic and, of course, returning to growth. Now is the time when the government and parliament must speed up their initiatives, speed up their pace, so that the next day, after the pandemic crisis, will find our economy at a rate of growth. We have legislation on the substance, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, in order to create a new investment environment, but also in order to correct mistakes and diseases of the past, to remind SYRIZA colleagues that for these days this company has sent an outlet to the Greek State, claiming eight hundred million euros. The new agreement, if anything, improves the legal and investment framework in line with international standards and we expect this framework to bring about increased investment in capital, full development and operation of mining facilities. I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur in his speech saying that he agrees with the investment, but disagrees with the contract. Well, let's see. Is this a deal brought by our Government, which the New Democracy brings, harmful to the Greek State? Is it harmful to Greek society, to Greeks and Greek women? Does it win or not the Greek public? Are jobs secured or lost? Is the environment protected or not? Will local society benefit through this process? Here I note and you all know that mining activities are taking place in Greece for too many years, and now I think we are mature and know how we need to improve the operation of the investment and how we will actually benefit the Greek economy and the Greek public. So we are signing a twenty-year contract that direct investment in the first five years is of the order of EUR 1 billion, while overall investment will reach EUR 2.9 billion, compared with the 1.4 billion which was the previous phase, the previous investment. The expected economic benefits for the Greek economy are expected to be EUR 800 million to be spent on Greek suppliers, EUR 600 million from exports, EUR 360 million for the Greek state, EUR 225 million for wages and allowances. So are we talking about sustainable or unsustainable development of the mines in the region? Does this convention provide or does not provide for an increase in the mining right of 10% in favour of our state, in favour of the public, in favour of local society? Can I ask you something? Why have you not made this increase for your days so that it is not really colonial, as you want to say, the whole Greek public contract? Why didn't you? Let us see now what the figures on jobs are and what employment is created by this investment? Last year, the jobs were a thousand six hundred fifty. We create another thousand four hundred direct jobs and two thousand indirect jobs, a total of five thousand jobs, with priority for the municipality of Aristotle, thus giving the lead in the local society. Here, of course, we must note that five hundred workers were made redundant in 2018 because the work in the mines had been stopped by the blockade, obsession and the ideas of the SYRIZA government. This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen. We create jobs, we aim to increase employment, we support the workforce. For us, the responsible mining activity is synonymous with environmental protection. So through the new agreement we ensure that the environment is protected on modern terms and we want the new investment project to have the lowest possible environmental burdens. It is intended to reafforest the area, protect the area, protect the natural environment. Our aim is for the investment agreement to be a guide to the sustainable development of the Kassandra mines, but at the same time also to send a strong signal to the international investment community that Greece is at last a serious and secure investment area where they can bring and invest their money. Finally, I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue to legislate with the greatest responsibility and security to our fellow citizens, to our society, to our environment, to create a strong reserve for the new generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Kotso. Until the Step is ready, I would like to thank Mr. Constantine Maraveya for his understanding. I will give the floor to Mr. Andreas Loverdos from the Change Movement, elected in the 2nd North Athens Sector. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of today's draft law I was first informed in 2003-2004, when I was State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, State Secretary of State at Siti. I really had no idea what was going on in Halkidiki with the mines. I've never heard of any specific activities there. However, because I was responsible for international economic relations, to every ambassador who wanted to see me, I said how friendly a country in investment Greece is. That's what I told him. The reactions of many of these ambassadors, mainly Canada, obviously and also of the American, were ‘How are you friendly? Here any investment is made, you create problems." And then there was a very big Japanese investment in the Peloponnese, which she also turned. In 1995, Kassandra, ‘TVX Greece’, a subsidiary of ‘TVX GOLD’, activities. But in 2003 these activities cease. I'm making a brief regression with little clues. On PASOK, in January 2004, shortly before the elections in March, the Convention on Mining Rights and all the facilities of the Kassandra mines in Greece, which was set up in 2003, is signed. In October 2005, a reopening of the mines of the Black Stone begins and in January 2006 is presented to the then Ministry of Development the single business plan for parallel exploitation of Black Stone, Olympiad and Skouria. It's going through the years. In 2011 by government of George Papandreou by Joint Ministerial Decision, the environmental conditions are approved. In December of the same year, the Canadian "ELDORADO GOLD" is purchased by the Canadian "ELDORADO GOLD". And in 2020 ELDORADO GOLD acquires 100% of the shares. 2013 is my second contact with the subject, because I had nothing to do with the problems and the issues of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development. This terrible raid is taking place in Halkidiki in 2013, in Skouria. I'm not only talking about molotovs, I'm saying not only about burning towers, but also about all the others that made us impression in Athens, this group of gunmen with the variants and hoods they did what they did. There are arrests. We condemn them all and those who were supporters of that government, but also SYRIZA as a Protestant Opposition, but in arrests they react by speaking of blind inductions. He stayed in the air and I think that still in the air is what had happened on 18 March 2013 in Halkidiki, not in Exarchia. So organized reaction I've never seen in Greece. Never! We are now arriving at the salvage year 2021. I have an external relationship with the subject, ladies and gentlemen. What I know so far is the two time-consuming points I have mentioned. I find her historically backwards on the Internet. Today, against this draft law there are three parties of opposition that say 'no' to everything. There's nothing anyone can say about that. They're negative. But there is the Greek Prime Minister who comes to the House. His party raises constitutional issues, opposes this legislative initiative at 100% and forces me to look into the political criticism of this party in the past, when we were government and adopted by common ministerial decision the environmental conditions. I was honored to be Minister of George Papandreou. Another gift to the intertwined Greek oligars, which is inextricably linked to the investment of "ELLENIC FRYS" in Halkidiki. Speech by Mr. Tsipras at the Army in Ierissos: "The Army will be converted into a port of heavy industry and the wider area in a warehouse of "ELLENIC FRYSOS". After twenty, thirty years..." ten have already passed "...the residents of the region will be stripped of infrastructure", etc. That's not true. This government for our own government, the PASOK government, has evolved into a persuasive body of the intertwined and oligarchs, who in the time of Simitis took the streets and now want to take the waters, the garbage and the inner parts of the Greek land. But when Mr. Stathakis signed the contract in 2016 and now the company "ELLENIKIKI CRYSOS" can install a enrichment unit in Skouria, Mr. Tsipras says another political cruise: "As a government you need to find a solution. You have a responsibility not to lead workers to unemployment." Today we are living what literature calls a circle. The author begins at a point and after a or a second course of time, he ends up at the same point. That's what you said as Opposition, that's what you say again as Opposition, but having done as government and having ten different lines within you. Why am I saying this? For I am defending the position of our own party, to vote in the first place on this agreement. I refer here - I do not have time - to the criticisms made by our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, and our Member, Mr Pana, who is elected in the region, but also by our parliamentary representative, Mr Katrin. However, I am speaking on the grounds why 'yes' is 'yes' in principle. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece with the mines, in Greece with the Greek, as I say in committee, and I will tell the House next week, it took us twenty-five years, close to the century, to move forward. And there is no emblematic investment in Greece that doesn't want its decades. The tricks are known. It is well known that the exploiting tricks of Greek justice and its slowness are exploited. After so many years we have had an opportunity - I repeat our comments on the contract have been tabled - to send a message that Greece is a good investment site. Also, the threatened clauses binding on each party by any international convention at that level were too heavy. They were too heavy. So I see a point of economic benefit. I see a second point which concerns the investment climate and the exteriority of what we want to do, which we are all talking about, but which we do not support, but which we can all agree on in the most basic and most classics. I see the value of use that any investment has for both its workforce and for the resources of the Greek state, i.e. tax revenue and insurance revenue. For all these reasons, we have in principle been positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u372	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinos Maraveyas is called at Stepma by New Democracy and the beautiful Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u373	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sure that for the polite concession of my place to Mr. Loverdo, you will reward me with a little tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u374	Can I say no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the SYRIZA Members both today in the debate of the bill, as well as in the committee, I felt a time-saving trip, in the period 2012-2014, where you were shaping the memoirs in SYRIZA, but you were also deleting debts and, indeed, without a trace of responsibility. Today you are going back to the same trophy, despite the fact that the five-year rule of Tsipras, which was judged by the Greek people, has been mediated. So you come today and you repeat yourself. Economic growth without investment, authorisation of new industries without private investors wishing to create them, protection of the environment from unlikely risks. Of course, then, you have denounced everything and everything with the cooperation of your punctual partner, Panos Kammenos. I would like here to remind you of two incidents from that time, which were suffering and should have been taught to everyone. At that time, Mr. Kammenos had urged some on the road to lynch the then Mayor of Aristotle, the area concerned by the investment. He told them more specifically: "Lidsare Mr. Pachta. It must not be released. I'm with you." The encouragement of Mr. Tsipras' partner was made in September 2014 and related to the investment of the "ELLINIKIKI FRYS" in Skouria. But the self-evident condemnation by SYRIZA of the extremist Kammenos statements never heard it, neither then nor afterwards. And since we are talking about "ELLENIKOS CHRYSOS" and its activities in the specific municipality of Halkidiki, I would like to remind you of another incident since the times of SYRIZA - ANEL, which relates to this bill. The mining company in question, under corporate social responsibility, is committed by the agreement that the Municipality of Aristotle should be given very substantial support in order to make works of general interest in the region, obviously in favour of local society and citizens. A similar project also operated in the government of Samaras with the investment arrangement at the time to directly strengthen the Municipality of Aristotle. What, though, did the Opposition say to us in 2012-2014? Something we are aware of today, unfortunately, in the form of the most mutated conspiracy theories. Someone said something, something was heard somewhere, i.e. without specific elements, without reasonable consistency, this claim was immediately hinted. And the unfounded insinuation was turned into a opposition cry, as was then the case with the corporate social responsibility program for the Municipality of Aristotle. So a public complaint was made since then, a member of the opposition, who was appointed Minister of SYRIZA in 2015. The complaint was a little bit of it, but it resulted in a clear hint: "Something strange happened with the donations of "ELLINIKOS CHRYS" to the Municipality of Aristotle". These vague complaints then came Mr. Kammenos in March and made them a lion, publicly accusing the former Mayor Aristotle of collecting donations from the "ELLENIC FRYS". And what happened, after all, with all this misery? What the rule of law demands. Mr. Kammenos was sentenced to convening the former mayor both from criminal and political courts. But let's ask ourselves what's left of this whole story. What remains is, unfortunately, a political legacy of irresponsibility, a Civic Opposition which continues to be consumed in the complaint of everything, hoping that this will come back to power, without accounting for the consequences of this unreserved policy that harms Greek society. Today we see the same thing as the ratification of the new investment agreement of the Greek State with the "Hellenic Chrysos", which SYRIZA and the others are voting against. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, refuse by a word to continue the operation of the Kassandra mines in Halkidiki. You are neither interested in maintaining the thousands of six hundred and fifty existing jobs nor in creating another three and a half thousand directly and indirectly. We are talking about over five thousand jobs in total, which is obviously not your priority there in the opposition. In all this, I do not take into account the ninety-nine temporary positions in the construction sector that will arise because of the need to extend the company's facilities. None of the parties that are denying the agreement today does even recognise the obvious benefit to the local society of the 80 million euros available for social and local development projects. Your refusal is complete and absolute. It is sufficient to call into question the institution of the independent environmental auditor to ensure the expert control of the investor in relation to the literal application of environmental protection legislation. You do the same for the electronic environmental monitoring system of four hundred points, which is one of the few points in the world in mines. The Anti-Population cancellation of all favourable regulations also touches the direct revenues from mining rights guaranteed by the Greek State, amounting to approximately EUR 400 million. You do not want to accept any positive forecasts, such as, for example, the long-term revenues of the State and of the ATT, calculated at EUR 2 billion from taxation, the payment of insurance contributions, mining rights, and the 3,5 billion from the purchase of goods and services by the investor by Greek businesses and providers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to close off with a more personal tone, because when the mud is dominated by political life, no one will ultimately remain unscathed. Most of you are here know me very little, but my local society knows me. And he knows that I was involved in politics, not because I was unpaid. But I accepted a great deal of war and hard criticism, because I suggested to the cement industry "HRAKLIS", which operates in the Volos region, to make sponsorships to Volos Hospital and to health centres in the area that in the pandemic period totalled more than 100,000 euros. And since the company's responsible know that I am objectively exposing the needs of the hospital, they have recently covered and purchased equipment of more than EUR 40,000 to carry out a special examination that will now be carried out in a few days' time at Volos Hospital. It will save thousands of Magnesia people from suffering, but it will also bring revenue to the region, because others will go to do the same examination to Volos, where so far throughout the health region they had to go back to Larissa. Therefore, instead of celebrating my city with this success, so many days my staff and I think about how we will communicate it, so that we do not accept any more negative comments. I would therefore appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to all of the wings, to remember that no one has a moral advantage over their political opponents. Let the unwitting vote stop, and it concerns all of us, going beyond morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. We will close the second circle of speakers with a natural presence with Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the draft law on the ratification of the investment agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the one-faced limited company named "GREENIK FRYS", as well as related provisions. This is a draft law that follows and fully harmonizes with a concrete and orchestrated draft in terms of government. Now, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, and even now that we are at the worst of times in health in the country with a record of incidents and a national health system that really stumbles, the government considers that its maximum priority is to bring this bill, as is the last 10 days before public procurement, namely, legislation with a clear class and political mark at a very difficult time for the country. That is what I think will be judged accordingly by the citizens. Let's go a little bit to the substance of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligations stemming from the Constitution regarding the exploitation of the country's mining wealth are specific. They are based on Articles 18 and 106 of the Constitution, while the Mining Code of our country, a legislative decree with historical and constitutional depth, states that due to this special care of the Constitution, the exploitation of the country's territory is only in the interests of the public interest to promote the national and regional economy of the country. I am referring to all the above, because today's convention seems to me to be a circumvention of the country's constitution, if not in the letter itself - I am sure the letter of the constitution is being examined by praisers and experts - in the spirit. This is a circumvention of the spirit of the Constitution and I will prove very briefly why. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government's conflict with ELDORADO GOLD has focused our own constitution and the laws of the country. It focused on the Constitution which requires the state to maximise the economic benefits of an activity that, whatever environmental protection measures are taken, irreversibly damages the environment. That is why the constitutional legislature requires the maximisation of the benefits to tolerate this environmental sacrifice. This company has therefore signed a contract on the basis of which it was obliged to use an internationally recognised method of processing gold concentrations in pure metal, respecting our country's environmental legislation, which is essentially a special form of European environmental legislation. The company conducted a policy for seventeen years, refusing to implement its planned investment project and then started proposing processing methods which had not been applied anywhere in the world with unauthorised environmental impacts for a European country. At this point, of course, we should say that the strategic environmental impact study, together with the corresponding environmental approval decision, was on the table concrete and distinct. This was obviously the company's attempt to change, because its financial impact, in order to observe and align with these conditions, was great. The result of the arbitration chosen by the previous government and mentioned by many colleagues in the committees and today also confirmed this. The referral court said that, on the one hand, the state must, within the existing framework - I stress, the country's institutional framework to authorise any investments that will lead to the verticalisation of production and on the other hand, it has confirmed the company's obligation to set up industrial facilities. Who? The Arbitration Court did this. She forced her... a product which would be pure metals, i.e. pure gold, silver and copper. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] In common, therefore, the arbitral court did not wash the company out of its responsibilities nor did it, of course, relieve it of the responsibilities of the S.H.E. itself, where the decision of 12 February 2020 confirmed the position of the previous government, that it was responsible for proving in situ the specific ore of Halkidiki that there was a safe way to implement its investment project, on the basis of the company's proposals for instant melting. This is what you are doing today, you are washing out the systematic violation of the previous convention and, by extension, the Constitution from a multinational. This company has been constantly violating the terms of the contract for seventeen years and exports with zero benefit to our country the gold, silver and copper concentrates with zero benefits for the public funds. You come here today and say that it's all well-built and you say that the company can legally export condensates forever. In the contract under consideration, the company's obligation to build a factory for final production only of gold lies under the terms of the company itself, without any commitment or deadline. The company has been invoking an out-of-court for years, in which it demanded money from the Greek State for foregone profits, a plating claim in which you have taken all your arguments since this morning to create a different impression from reality. You also say that the Greek state must compensate the company if it itself wants to leave for its own reasons or whispers. Also, to compensate the company for the public if environmental legislation changes, because, for example, the relevant European directives change, to compensate it if Greek workers exercise their constitutional right to strike. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You do not even have the fundamental institutional responsibility to put a condition in the contract that says that the contract will enter into force only once and when the European Competition Committee approves it. DG - COM is clear and it is really a wonder that your study, your study, prejudges a process...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u379	I shall conclude, Mr President. It seems to me that you have not observed that all my interlocutors today had a tolerance from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u380	You've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u381	I'm just asking for a minute. I'm not asking much. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with today's abortion you are doing something unheard of. You commit the country, saying that any Greek government in the future will be obliged to follow the one-way path of full subordination to the irrational demands of a multinational. In other words, you commit the Greek people, you commit the state to voting for the laws that the company will impose, because otherwise the state, that is, the Greek taxpayer, will have to pay it. The very conception of the contract has in itself an air of undemocratic diversion. Your laws and practices smell Banana. Your laws and practices remind us of colonial conventions of the past. ELDORADO GOLD, as a new British East Indian company, will in future be able to dictate legislation in our country on many issues, such as environmental law, the Mining Code or labour law to a threat of full compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u382	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u383	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, indeed, you write history. This Convention creates the first Special Economic Zone in the country and the first Special Economic Zone in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Comrade, you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u385	On the contrary, you will find all the parties in anti-population, I hope, that today your agglomeration is crumbling. Against you in this crime you will find the people, the Constitution and Europe itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u386	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to try to stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, it is very bad what you are doing. You should have heard the other guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u388	The President has informed me that time is six minutes. Mr Mamulakis spoke eight and a half minutes. It's not my six-minute decision, it's the House's decision. Please very much within six minutes to complete the process. Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to say to Mr Mamulaki: Mr Mamulaki, the ESS is not going to go too far. The NSA is fighting hard every day with all the supplies that the New Democracy Government gave him, tripling the ICUs, hiring health and doctors and giving him as weapons the supplies they didn't have on your days when you were government. So it's good to be careful what we're talking about in here. Ladies and gentlemen, in normal circumstances today we would be in Areopolitan, Mani, where we would celebrate the two hundred years since the Revolution was declared, two hundred years from March 17, 1821, when the Maniots gathered in the city square, in the Temple of Taxiarchs, and lifted the banners of the revolution, which were written "victims or death" and "whether on the ones". Pride and honor only for these heroes. We owe them the freedom of our nation and the independence of our country. The courage, sacrifice and achievement of them are and will be an example for all and for all the generations of the Greeks. Before I spoke about the bill, I could not go into the irresponsible attitude of opposition, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Because in the midst of the pandemic, in the midst of the battle of the ESS and the health workers, in the midst of increasing cases, we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, invite people to gather across the country and then hypocritically ask ourselves how the incidents are increasing. Ultimately, stop worrying about the battle that the people, which we are all giving, is a battle for freedom. Stop, finally, undermining this effort in all ways. In Piraeus, in my town, SYRIZA's candidate mayor, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Belavilas called for a gathering of the Piraeus, while Piraeus records a record of increasing cases. He's an active municipal counselor, this gentleman, yours. You do the same throughout the country. You divide Greek society alone, you do nothing else and you target people who fight and do not want to participate in your own relics and gatherings that you cause. Let me now talk about the bill. The bill today is an agreement of national importance, an agreement negotiated by the New Democracy Government for a year and a half to achieve this result. Seventeen years after the initial agreement of the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS" we proceed to relaunch the investment with full development and operation of the mining facilities in Halkidiki. With an additional USD 1.9 billion, this investment becomes one of the largest foreign investments in our country's history. It is an investment that makes Greece a leading gold producer in Europe. So we do our election commitments, bringing Greece to an investment destination. With this agreement model for the national interest we shield the emblematic investment, we protect the country's mineral wealth, we guarantee transparency, accountability and legal certainty, we simplify procedures, we encourage friendly and rapid dispute resolution, we do everything they need to attract major investment. I would remind you that the government of SYRIZA has turned the company against the Greek State with an outlet of EUR 800 million. We know them, we heard them both from the Minister and from everyone. This agreement relieves the Greek State and the company of any effect they cause. That is the truth, and you, colleagues of the Opposition, may have fought with it, but no matter what you do, no longer believes you. I would also remind you that SYRIZA, who is allegedly being cut off on state revenue, has not made a single change in mining charges when it was a government, the fees that this New Democracy government is currently increasing. In addition, from income tax, social contributions and mining rights, we are ensuring for the Greek public total income of EUR 2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I could say a lot about this bill. The company undertakes to allocate EUR 70 million for local development and social care projects in the region. The overall investment will also lead to the development of the agricultural sector and to the development of tourism. It is therefore extremely clear to everyone, apart from you, that this is an agreement with a clear developmental character and at the same time with a strong social figure. With the new investment project of "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" the responsible use of mineral wealth becomes a source of prosperity for all. Of the long-term social, economic and environmental benefits of the agreement, the Greek citizen, is finally benefiting. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u390	Thank you very much for the time. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA. I'm sure Mr. Giannoulis will stay in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much, Mr President. I could, of course, end in a minute, ladies and gentlemen, by saying and asking the Members of the House to stop suffering "Chrysochoid", whether it relates to the "ELELENIKIKO FRYS" contract with the Greek State, or to the reading of the investigations that Mr Mitsotakis presented a few days ago in the House, or in all the texts relating to the public interest and health. Ladies and gentlemen, with three thousand four hundred sixty-five cases, six hundred, sixty-six deaths and hundred and hundred and more of our fellow citizens waiting, I would be more careful and more modest and humble if it reminds you of something of the old. I want to ask a simple question. Do you share the vulgarities of Georgian that the opposition is responsible for the spreading and dispersing of the coronary? Is that what you're saying? You're saying it's our fault? Say it straight or let Mr. Mitsotakis say it. Today, you know, hospitals gather, declare their protest and form the word shame in their mouths. Shame because at the moment nothing has happened to support the public health system. If not at all, it has become minimal in relation to what you have contacted. And today these people are asking for the minimum, for example in the "SHOTHRIA", where a pneumonologist is hired, to hire the other eleven who deposited their papers. It's so simple when you want to help people in hospitals and stay helpless! They also ask that social automation does not enter so that private doctors are paid EUR 2,000 a month and that Mr Kikilias is asked to be asked by the director of a hospital unit, an academic, to be paid EUR 1,500 a while ago. Of course, what should anyone expect, when it is revealed today that the dean of the Aristotle, the man who notified the police of the repression operation at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, was vaccinated, although a veterinarian, declaring pathologist and embedded in the health personnel of the University of Thessaloniki? Are you falling off the clouds? No, I guess not. He was ahead of us, Mr. Plori, and the previous blue army that was vaccinated from the back door. We should shut it down once and for all. The Coronovirus is mainly transmitted to work, where controls are few as nonexistent and in the means of transport, where, as Mr. Tsipras said this morning, there are 50 protests daily, on the metro, on the buses of Athens, on the buses of Thessaloniki. You close your eyes, too. It's SYRIZA's fault! It's SYRIZA's fault, the mobilizations and the protests. It's not like that, unfortunately! The whole country isn't an electronic page paid by Mr. Pecha. I won't take any more time with this, because it's not worth any answer to the inspiring of the Internet gutter. He's got a name. It's called Adonis Georgiadis. He's the most depleted political person on the Internet. 'Holidays in Maldives'. Do you remember that? What's that, a news report? And instead of building his own paintings, it would be nice to help himself and Mr Mitsotakis - I say again - not to get 'Chrysohoid'. To read the surveys that Mr Mitsotakis has made clear to us all, but the investigations by means of a smuggling attempt by Mr Mitsotakis have shown that others have said not what he understood. In addition to the other vulgarities that came out against the Antipopulation - desperately trying to get caught from where it could - it removed the hysteria's face and put the human face in. I will close by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that normal people, when they contribute to a difficult time, do not do so on Twitter and on the Internet. When you have real anguish for your friend and you are even forced to accept the political cost of your decision, you don't do a great thing on Twitter, laughing at me and saying that "I offer another Christian man to Greece". They have greater modesty and humility, whatever reason it is. I was thinking about asking you what you were doing in relation to the Greek public and the "Hellenic Chrysos". The rapporteur, but also my colleagues, have analysed in detail the fact that what is in the contract is not what you have in mind. It's something else. In all places. I'm only staying on one issue. Can you tell us, Minister, for example, how the minimum checks will be carried out, which the Greek State owes to every activity, by the Region of Central Macedonia? If I am not mistaken, the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Head of the EMCDDA and President of the European Committee of the Regions, decided not to show up for this bill. He sent Lieutenant Halkidikis, who was picking them up. ‘Signatures’. As Mr Georgiadis said, 'half an eye we close from here'. It can't be done. What is the position of the Region of Central Macedonia? It is the self-government body that is supposed to defend the interests of the public in all the prefectures and also in Halkidiki. Is there a place? Is he just hiding? So, they're trying to avoid suffering to say what they think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u393	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, do you know that in this abattoir that is guaranteed for the Hellenic FYROM, the absence of the public as an audit mechanism, but also as an audit procedure for environmental, town planning, labour, health, safety of workers, who have not appeared anywhere, have not appeared in the consultation, does it not concern you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u394	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u395	Yes, Mr. President. I heard you. I'll be in ten seconds. Doesn't it bother you why their trade unions or their representatives didn't show up? Doesn't it surprise you? And from what I'm learning, and now you're starting to mobilize. Is this a good contract that drives them crazy? Do they live the frustration of the big event?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u396	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u397	But what history will never forgive you - and I am actually closing down, Mr President - is not all that we have mentioned. It is the fact that by this contract you are stealing the air of our children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u398	I would ask you very much to keep time. Mr Constantine Bluchos has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, please be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Giannoulis, because I am a little man of the field and because the debate has escaped and we are all concerned here, given the circumstances and the juncture, with the National Health System, hypocrisy is too much. The hypocrisy is that you have now recognized even the wage indifference of workers, doctors and doctors in the ESS. Now, you have recognized it, too. You did well to recognize it. We all recognise the needs of the national health system that went bankrupt. He didn't go bankrupt in a moment. All these years this system is failing and no one is interfering. And you didn't interfere. And these interventions in the past year, in a year's time, have been what has not happened over the last fifteen years. Fifteen consecutive years as an expert working in this National Health System. And neither can the National Health System, whatever the treaty and the juncture, be changed by automation. And we can't speak, as Mr. Tsipras spoke, today, here from this Step towards the staff at the RIS, the health care workers, as if we were talking about unskilled personnel. He's a skilled staff and he doesn't exist. Heavy places, barren specialties. You know it. Mr. Xanthos knows about them, who asked the Ministry of Health five months ago about the barren specificity of anesthetics. We didn't find out now. There has been this problem for years. There are no specific specialities. It cannot be supported targeted by the ESS. Now have we understood the unequal distribution between regional and centre of health? We cannot understand - is this not hypocrisy? - that if the hospitals, hospitals - in introductory - "quality" and "large" in Athens are at the moment, it is because this "ESA" is also "me"? You're all starving about this thing. So I think it's a lot of hypocrisy. We shouldn't be shooting those fighting people right now. Because we shoot them when we speak in this Chamber we do not know about death. I know and I don't dare talk about death. It's a shame to anyone here talking about death. Right now that the health system and health care workers need umbrellas, we shoot them. You shoot them. Think about it a little and you'll understand it. I come on the step by step to put forward a number of more general considerations, since the draft law was sufficiently satisfactory and convincing to all aspects and perspectives. I've been uprooted to the history of private investment. Know your morbid irresponsibility, your masochist self-renunciation in acidification and political resistance, they're just enclosing you. You know, our life is crushed by such formations. The word investing in the modern left vocabulary is probably the concept of the eschatological antichrist of left humanity. Investment and destruction, concepts identical to those in your mind. Let's take a look at your False Left humanity type. It is him, who cares about health and pandemic, while at the same time promoting the rightful fist and enslaving, participating, urging - as it may be - protests at a period of extremism of the pandemic phenomenon, in order to risk people's lives, of course, practicing not those which, in the context of practicableness and circumstance, can be done - I mean, Mr Giannoulis - but those which cannot be done, of course, by practicing the uprooting automation instead of realism. The Saturday that passed us, but what comes tomorrow, in my town, is being organized - and it was organized - a rally, as in many cities, in favour of the health of the world. A left-wing liar - revolutionary spray with a tooled union valve protesting for health, intriguing the overtransmission of the disease, to defend our rights trespassing who? A junta? Which junta? Mitsotakis' junta - mercy! - which caused restrictions and incarcerations for the protection of public health. I am thinking of the priestly diplomats on the Psychosabbats of my childhood: on the one hand, the names of the people who live and pray for health on the other hand, on the other hand, the names for rest in the place where I long. Only in this case, left-wing diplomas include the same names and faces of society, to the living and to the perpetrators, because the Left is investing in risk or rather, in indisputable political and spectacle. Left-wing opposition is taking the opportunity to terrorize the government. But when you invest in your political existence in the first week, in the supposed analgesia and vengeance of democracy and institutions against a convict, secondly, in the imbalance of an undermining right, taking advantage of the fatigue of people from the cruel but forced health measures, and when on the third week you are allegedly caring about the environment, condemning an investment that will open up jobs and involve a multiplier in subsequent development prospects, while at the same time demonstrating a hundred and fifty times throughout Greece and for jobs that are lost, then, my friends of the Left Progress, you are evident that you have exceeded the limits of desperation rather than deposited jobs and proposals. Why? Because they are confronted with your contradictions and, in a way, transcendent, reading reality. We respect what reality is. You parade it, reverse it, to subdue it to your abstract anachronism. Such a left with such self-punishment actually causes nausea. You love gentlemen, the defeat of losers who permanently defeat power. At some point power has been handed over to you for five years. We lived this tragedy together. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u400	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u401	Whether this investment is called Greek or is called gold mining, there is an eschatological perspective about the end of the world and always a chance. In philosophy and theology it is understood that no eschatology fulfils the conditions of its existence if it is not accompanied by a persuasive lifesaving. Otistin, if there's no investment in the Greek, what? If the investment of Halkidiki in Halkidiki stops again, what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u402	It's been a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u403	If tomorrow a Left hand downloads the Halkidiki mine switches and, on the one hand, stops an investment that has any prospect, on the other hand sends to unemployment a thousand five hundred workers, then the social phenomenon that will be created will be a blessing or a curse? You're cut off for the workers' positions, but, basically, all you care about is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u405	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...it's no worker, no unemployed, no benefits, no civil servants. Perhaps - I will close with this, without completing the speech, respecting the time and extension that you give me, discreetly, on the margin of politically influenced bay, your Left confined to saving the testimony of words, such as hypocrisy, cynicism, paradoxism, malignant populism, ruthless opportunism. Thank you, Mr President, above all, for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u406	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there are some speeches. But time is specific. You must be the one before you prepare him. I say that to everyone. We all have to prepare him. Mrs Catherine Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. Please, my colleague, be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today at the most difficult moment, at the most critical moment in the management of the pandemic. The Government of New Democracy, however, has provoked its anesthesia and analgesia. You try arrogantly, with lies, to convince us that everything is under control, but when public hospitals have collapsed, when they are over a hundred fellow humans pierced out of intensive care units, when there are over seven thousand dead to date, much more than the European average, lives that could have been saved, while from the "smart" measures and the smarts of your government we are counting today, the last 24 hours, fifty-four and over three thousand cases and thirty-three perme. So what are you doing today in an emergency situation? What is the priority for your own government when life is at stake? Do you consider opening intensive care units? Oh, no. This is what Mr Petsas said: 'Flesh money'. Did you hire doctors? Neither. Is there a return to support for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, in Halkidiki, which we are talking about today and which have been irreparablely affected and faced with locks and unemployment? Again, no. Even now - I say - a plan for the safe relaunching of tourism? Neither. You are legislating on the sale of public property and even on fast track procedures, in a shocking way, which - if you like - goes beyond the colonists themselves. You have decided today to deliver the resources, revenue, work, the very future of Halkidiki to the "Halkidiki FRYSOS". We have a contract for the sale of North-East Halkidiki with the government resigning - if possible! - for compensation and for future tax revenue, also waive any control of environmental interventions. We are not dogmatically opposed to any mining activity, but when it is done on very strict terms, under very specific conditions and not at the expense of the place, but for the benefit of local societies. But here we have a contract that literally grants everything without conditions, without conditions, without control. You create an autonomous state, an unbaptised one, by its own laws and rules. You establish the absolute opacity of the environmental audit with a specific status of the independent environmental auditor, paid by the company. These are, therefore, provisions that are provocative in favour of the interests of a company unilaterally. The contract excludes any public authority from future requirements in any procedure. It opens a window so that the company can use the cyanide at any time. The tax will not be based solely on the company’s sales invoices. The municipality's rights as a percentage of the turnover are funny. It is of the order of 1% to 2%, when internationally speaking about 5% to 12%, while Greek FRYS is allowed to send its profits free of charge abroad. If that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is it not a robbery of Greek mineral wealth, then what is it? The contract with the Hellenic FRYS is illegal, it is unconstitutional. It raises serious issues of violation of the duty of the ministers, and it also violates a large number of provisions of European Union and national law. In your effort here to convince us about this terrible, terrible investment project, you have again referred to it falsely - because it does not prove any organograms, any targeting - the workers and supposedly new jobs, while in fact your only concern for this contract is how the company will be able to dismiss mass workers with locality if others are found with lower economic requirements. Because you actually used the Halkidikis in an election campaign, and today you're turning their backs on them. So break the tracking clause when you find another, that of the reduced wage requirements. Minister, the company has taken everything it would like to do more than that, perhaps with this renegotiation of the contract. The state, the Greek state? Here you sacrifice the greatest wealth of our region, of northern Greece, its own environmental reserve, for the profits of a company, in an area with dynamic tourist development, with unique monuments of global heritage, with great wealth, with unique natural beauty, with many visitors every year. And they could be much more if you had a plan, if you were building infrastructure, if we were to talk about alternative forms of tourism. We're not talking about any of this. We are only talking about a systematic dismantling of the region. Is that what you think growth is? Is that the productive model you bring? Instead of talking about interconnecting a primary sector with tourism, about new fair jobs, about alternative tourism, about infrastructure, you are talking about how you will destroy Halkidiki, of course, and what will happen to tourism in the region and the economy as a whole. And to be honest, would you go on vacation somewhere where you know that cyanide is being used, where the aquifer is contaminated? Would you swim on a sea you know that heavy waste is being spilled? Would you eat seafood from this sea? Who are you kidding? Is that really the brand name you have for our place of Halkidiki? Development, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the exploitation of environmental wealth in a direction of sustainable development, sustainable tourism in sustainable destinations. Can tourism be sustainable at destroyed destinations? It is this sustainable development plan that will really give many, good jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I think you're confusing. You think your government officials are above the law. You think exactly with the same arrogance that the interests you serve are above control and above the law. Because here you do not just serve the interests, you are literally serving them. You no longer serve the Greek people. You serve specific interests to the detriment of the Greek people. So be sure that the Greek people will deplete all legal and democratic means in order to prevent your criminal and destructive plans and achieve it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u408	Thank you. Mr Haritsis has been a little late, to whom we shall give the floor now. And we'll keep going after the talking cycle from Webex. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. On a very difficult day, we should normally be here today to discuss legislation to shield the public health system, to support small and medium-sized enterprises. I now come from a teleconferencing conference with small and medium-sized ones who, by cry of desperation, expressed their anxiety about what dawned them. Unfortunately, instead of this, we are discussing the service of very specific, very important interests, as the New Democracy Government does at the outset. Because what we are discussing today is the amendment of a contract, in fact a large number of new unprecedented arrangements, which - as it has been seen in the debate all these days and in the relevant Commission - require the time-limitly unacceptable demands and conditions in the Greek state and the Government of New Democracy accepts them. This contract rewards a series of previous practical and extreme requirements and ex post legalistic tactics and hidden designs that have been identified and previously condemned to justice, public administration, independent authorities and dietary bodies. It is incomprehensible, therefore, that the state does not claim compliance with the agreements, that it does not claim legal compensation for infringements and instead legislate by violating national and European law. Unfortunately, these are developments which we will find in front of us in the next few years. I don't have time to analyse exactly what this contract involves. Our parliamentary representative and our rapporteur have done so anyway, and all the Members not only of the SYRIZA but of all the anti-population forces - I think - have done so in a very good way. If I had to speed up, I would say that we are talking about an investment which, on the basis of the new contract, will be more beneficial to corporate profits and more unfavourable to the public interest. The company will control itself, decide on its own what it will do and even owe it compensation if it fails to achieve what it promises or if there is a strike. Secondly, it will be environmentally dangerous as it allows the company to select methods of mining and processing ore practices without commitments, supervision and control procedures by the competent authorities. And thirdly, it will be undemocratic and institutionally dangerous - the crypt is obviously what has been put before Members of the SYRIZA - the ban on changing legislation. Overall - and this has been set by the same representatives of self-government, who do not belong to the SYRIZA, in consultation with the bodies - this convention has been formed in the interpretation of local bodies, the interpretation of local society, the interpretation of special scientists. Unfortunately, the text and methods you are following, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in this case, go not into a final state, but in a failed state, what is called failed state, which gives land and water to every speculative project on the pretext of development, but which never comes in the end for many, for a social majority, and leaves behind devastated and damaged productive potential. It is no coincidence, moreover, that in the absence of any documented arguments, those in the committee who tried to support this convention, in fact what they did was to reproduce a wish for good foreign investment and for a bad SYRIZA that does not want them. But now this narrative, which you used on coral until 2019, has grown old and does not sell. On the basis of this convention and this debate which is being held today in Parliament, I would also like to make a more general comment on development policy, because I believe that this agreement reflects, as an ideal case study, that is to say, the distorting concept of development which Mr Mitsotakis' government is trying to impose today on the country. After about twenty months of service administration we have written samples about how you understand and how you direct the development of the Greek economy in particular with regard to environmental issues, with restrictions on public consultation procedures in administrative acts relating to the environment, with the abolition of management bodies with Law 4685/2020 and finally the cancellation of the very concept of the protected area with Law 4782/2021, on the pretext of the weakness and the subsistence of the services and finally the assignment of public functions that are strictly state responsibilities to individuals or independent bodies, with the incomprehensible management of forest maps. It is a series of ideological deregulations in the area of development and spatial planning and the environment that cause more problems and insecurity for citizens, administration and investors themselves, the major investors in our country. On the contrary, SYRIZA, as a government, tried in the area of local and regional development and attracting sustainable investments with important tools, such as "PHILDIMOS", with environmental protection and management sectors, the creation of financing structures such as the Development Bank and financial instruments, such as the Infrastructure Fund, for the benefit of necessary public investments that can also work for private investments, as well as a number of other initiatives specifically in green sectors and environmental infrastructure. It is clear to me that what is happening here is that there are two different concepts, two different worthy systems, two different priorities in relation to development models for the role of public spheres and public bodies. Because a truly final state and not false documents, such as yours, would plan long-term rather than on the basis of the occasional requirements of any investors. It would measure the total costs and impacts and modulate social and productive actors balanced alternatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. In our view, Mr President, which incorporates the progressive searches for the fair socio-economic characteristics of the new green agreement, which forms at European level, the environment and nature, the Greek places with possibilities and people are a comparative advantage for the development of the country. We say nobody stays behind, man and place. You only say those who can and others can be careful. In conclusion, these new contractual arrangements that you bring to the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" reflect the worst traditions of a Member State's remnant of the appetites of the various speculators who promise treasures, who eventually end up being a mirror for indigenous people. The Government of New Democracy chooses to reward today and even worse to institutionalise unacceptable practices and long-term claims without guaranteeing any benefit to the environment and local communities in the region. It will find us in front of it along with the local communities and the healthy productive bodies that are envisioned and able to design and promote a different development model for our country, particularly in today's multilateral critical conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u410	We are now continuing with Mr Theodore Karaoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position in Parliament's plenary by asking all Members of this House to take seriously into account that the temperature in public life has risen to a dangerous level. That is why I would like to point out to all my fellow Members the need to avoid tension and division. I move on to this because by following the positions of the opposition parties I found that they are again investing in arson crowns in order to win the battle of impressions. I would draw attention to them because they will be solely responsible for derailing the public debate and the tension that we have experienced in the last few days is transferred to the Municipality of Aristotle only to serve their small-party purposes. I respect, understand and recognise the right to protest and the different viewpoint. But next to the word protest there is also the word responsibility, which goes beyond political objectives and is identical to the words of respect for social conscience and responsibility. I've heard colleagues from the Opposition talk about a lion deal. I have heard they raise a matter of breaches of duty and infidelity against the public for the relevant Minister for the Environment. I heard them claim to be lost by state property and plural property a precious mineral. Another described the agreement as charismatic, and another claimed that this is a brutal scandal that would bring no benefit but great disaster to the environment, economy and society. It is a shallow and sterile opposition reason that violates the rule that in politics almost always the best counsellor is realism. In other words, this is a mystical view of things, which confirms that the opposition in our country is caught in prejudice and is following events in a narrow perspective that is unable to see the future, which is unable to follow the flow of developments and to adapt to the data of the time. The ideological obsessed with it drastically restricts its horizons, resulting in it being unable to understand that we are talking about a national investment agreement that strengthens the national economy, supports the local economy and of course upgrades the region. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, for everyone to understand that Greece can also have other heavy industries that can attract investment by achieving desirable substantial growth with responsibility, faithful respect and application of environmental rules. Hold on to the following elements. According to IOBE's official report on the contribution of the mining industry to the Greek economy, the participation of the mining industry in the country's GDP reaches 3%. But since there are people behind the numbers, consider the vital need to create even more sustainable jobs in our country. This, of course, does not mean for us that the purpose justifies the means. If we were supporters of feasibility, we would not discuss with the company for about a year and a half to reach a mutually acceptable and advantageous solution, but we would close the deal in a week and a half. You see in our view of things the creation of real wealth for the country is based on dialogue, respect for the environment and sustainable development. We believe that economic growth is not an enemy of ecology and the environment, but through dialogue we can reach possible solutions that will safely lead us to general prosperity and sustainable development, which is what is needed. We believe in the 'yes' that bridge the different views. We believe in dialogue, dialogue that can be difficult, as it often starts from different starting points, but it is necessary, since it is done on clean terms and, above all, with honesty. After all, we have shown that as a government we are struggling for the adoption of practices that serve the fair and resilient economy, namely the one that exploits, protects and invests in the natural wealth of our country, I was compatible with the sustainable future. I would remind you of the speed with which we have moved on to degrease the country, its carbonisation and the strong support we have given to the European Green Deal. We have a successful balance between society and the economy on the one hand and environmental protection on the other. With regard to the agreement with Hellenic FRAMEWORK, we are clearly interested in having a positive environmental footprint, increasing the revenues of all forms for the Greek State, and of course there are serious compensatory benefits for the region. The enemy of good, of course, is always the best. However, it is obvious that the new agreement serves all three conditions which we have set ourselves, while strengthening the prospect of attracting long-term investments. Today, the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" employs directly a thousand six hundred and fifty employees. When the new investment project is fully developed, a thousand four hundred new jobs will be created. A total of over three thousand direct jobs will be lost and, of course, we need to add another two thousand, almost, indirect jobs. On the basis of the revised contract, additional funds of $2 billion will be invested to be added to the $1.5 billion already invested to protect the investment and the public interest. As far as public revenues are concerned, the new agreement provides benefits for twenty-five years, offering some EUR 2 billion of income taxes, social contributions and mining rights. The Greek State also reserves the rights to defend its interests in accordance with the terms of the contract and the clauses provided for concern the protection of both sides as is normally the case in international agreements. In addition, the receipts from mining fees for the state and local society are expected to exceed EUR 191 million, with an increase of 10% of the fees in place in the mining sector. It is worth mentioning that the state and the company are exempted from any effect caused by the company's external documents to the Greek State. The final settlement of the company's outlaws to the State, brought to bear in Article 11, heals a major wound caused by the administration of SYRIZA - ANEL, since the company can no longer raise any claim against the Greek State. With regard to the compensatory benefits in the area, I focus on opening in total...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Comrade, please. You've reached seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u413	...(not heard because of bad connection)... ten thousand direct and indirect jobs with the priority given to the labour force of the Municipality of Aristotle. And the Minister responsible yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u415	...approved the proposal of Mayor Aristotle, Mr. Valianos, that local government should participate in...(not heard because of a bad connection)...a technical evaluation committee with a regular and an alternate member of the municipality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u417	I'm closing, Mr. President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u418	No, I'm not giving you a second. Please hang up here. Say your last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u419	I'm closing, Mr. President. The good of the place, ladies and gentlemen, does not come when companies are closing down and unemployed young people are staying. The good of the place is not ensured when one rises unnoticedly the banner of resistance. The good thing about this place is to defend and develop a dialectic interaction, trespassed with honesty and not behind flammable revolutionary chips. So that's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Colleague, I'm going to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u422	I understand that colleagues from Webex can continue talking to each other and I on Mr Karaoglu and Mr Karaoglu on me. I tell you that we are not going to continue this and I will stop the procedure after the six-minute time decided by this House. Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA. Please, Mrs. Christidou, be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u423	Stay quiet, Mr. President. Thank you very much for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an agreement between a company and the Greek State which is very difficult to call investment. Even in neoliberal economic theory, the right of the investor to profit is justified in the name of a small or large economic risk, which he bears. At the same time, the investor undertakes tax and environmental obligations and commits to labour rights, in accordance with national legislation at all times. None of this applies in the case of the ‘ELLENIC FRAMEWORK’. National legislation does not exist as a fig sheet either. The so-called investor, even if he leaves the area on his own fault, is compensated richly by the Greek State. The state is obliged to pay clauses to whatever the company considers to be a profit for the company. Its tax obligations are funny and through the triangular transactions that this Convention facilitates. Even these few tax revenues that the state could take, very simply evaporate. The mining charges, not only are smaller than the internationally anticipated, but through an extremely vulnerable smuggling process, tend to disappear too easily. What about jobs? For the rewarding benefits to the municipality, to the local communities, there is no commitment, only wishes. The environmental audit is entrusted not to the Labour Inspectorate, a public agency, but to a private person who will be paid by the company and any control he wants the state to do, he should be present by the private employee of the company, after a warning has been given to determine the visit time. It is an arrangement that, as you can imagine, humiliates every concept of control. But this is the role of the state that the New Democracy Government dreams of, which can also be managed violently, when, on the one hand, tax, environmental, general immunity of friends, is necessary, with the unimportant above all. Many colleagues from SYRIZA have earlier named this colonial agreement and have been precise because granting part of the country to a company is a neo-colonial-type agreement. It is not only a abolition of the articles of the Constitution. It is a flagrant infidelity to the detriment of the Greek public and the public interest, and its legal control is in no way complete at today's Parliament's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing us, after consultation with the Greek FRYS, an agreement which you are telling us that we cannot change it either in a party or at one point. What are you afraid of and bringing her this way? No, of course, the opposition, which is numerically disadvantaged. For the Members of the Complex you have obviously been concerned about whether they too will hesitate and ask for improvements to the articles of this agreement, whether they too are indignant with Rule 11, which provides for and I shall read it out: 'Full and final settlement of the existing disputes and any past, present or future claims, possible claims, retaliations, claims, rights of settling'. We are talking about an article which imposes a withdrawal of the State from or a subsequent claim against the ‘Hellenic FRYS’. Tell us, which other country, even the colony of the previous century, found a similar legalization and adopted it? Tell us what other foreign legislation has been found similar to Article 14, which provides full flexibility for the company to modify its investment plan at the appropriate time? Tell us, where did he meet an article similar to Article 19, which provides for the possibility of the company not to be taxed at all in Greece and for its profits to be taxed abroad? This article is a dream of every sworn tax fugitive friend of yours. Let the government majority tell us what national legislation is corresponding to Article 32, where it is foreseen that if the agreement is to be terminated on the part of the public authorities, the State is obliged to compensate the company with an amount to be determined by a committee of experts, which will be very much determined by the company itself. Here we don't even have the dream of any corleone, here is the dream of Don Corleone, the Dream of the Dream from the well-known trilogy of Copola. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing with this. This bill confirms how dangerous the Government of New Democracy is for the interests of the Greek people, for the interests of Greek citizens. In the name of the so-called entrepreneurship facilitation, the government favours specific entrepreneurs, friends, "losers", to the detriment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are trying to cope with the economic crisis. In the name of the so-called facilitation of entrepreneurship, it closes eyes to the pillaging of the environment. In the name of so-called facilitation of entrepreneurship, he sends every job right to Caesar from the first day. But lies end and you will not be saved this time either by false polls or by the Pecha lists, or by the old or the new ones. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u424	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Vagionas Georgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u425	First of all, I congratulate my fellow Member, Mr Apostle Pana of the Change Movement, and what he has said I endorse. I thank Andreas Loverdos and Mr Kostas Maraveyas for having freed me from mentioning the story of the last twenty-five years of mining operations. The convention signed on 5 February 2021, which comes today for ratification in Parliament, is a heterogeneous agreement in favour of the company with both positive and negative elements, which the negative elements can be resolved through dialogue and consultation. I shall refer a little to the payroll, the royalties as we say. Greece is a eurozone country. I have the figures and figures from France, Germany and Finland, three Eurozone countries, on what payroll charges they pay. We want the average of these countries in proportion, and if there is another country, let them put it on the average. However, the possibility of an increase in value added by taking into account or utilizing metals from the platinum group present in the Skouria region is not taken into account. And here I want to make a stand. It has been said and has a dose of truth that it will take place in the Squirrels superficial mining. Tens of thousands of surface mining acres are unsensory and this crater will appear from the moon. But it is dangerous and unhealthy because on such large surfaces it is produced very asbestos in this area and a quartz which is extremely dangerous to health. So it's a second deep red line for surface mining. Smaller red line for 90% present in the previous contract and goes to abolish, not to say that it has already been abolished, to bring workers from whatever region we want. It is also clear that we will possibly bring people, possibly Albanians, Egyptians and so on. This will in no way be accepted by the Aristotle people. But today's contract for me is a pretext for the metallurgy of gold. I wish to be mistaken, because the metallurgy plant is not coming forward, and that is why I said that it is mentioned, but history is a pretext. Because I have tabled to the House - and will now be tabled in the Minutes of this House - my question on this issue, but at the same time a descriptive three-page answer from the Ministry dated 1 February 2021, which has made me more familiar with metallurgy. Is there an alternative method? Yes, there is. Who's that? It's the hydro-metallic, and I want you to listen carefully. It may be the most important mining innovation in the twentieth century to exploit the rough gold ore without being dangerous to the environment and people, i.e. workers. One of the most interesting methods of foaming was recently discovered. For the first time this method has been heard in the House for five days, four in the committee and one in the House today. The foam float works by exploiting the waterproof properties of the gold molecules, while the waste is immersed at the bottom of the tank. The float is harmless and well known as it is applied in Halkidiki, in the Kassandra mines for many decades. It's important. Foaming is an innovation in Greek, from Greek scientists who worked in the gold industry in South Africa. So the question is clear. So why not use this most important Greek innovation immediately, but why should our country not take advantage of it by exporting it to other countries in the world that have copper ore and precious metals mixed with arsenic? If he is the beloved Minister, Mr. Skrekas, I would ask him to invite the people of Greek innovation and of the company as quickly as possible - he wants at the same time - to invite them to listen to them. But Mr Maraveyas referred to corporate social responsibility. Corporate social responsibility is present and there are commitments from the company against it. I will only say one element.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u426	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u427	And in order not to trouble you too much and for the first time you will hear them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u428	He said it, Mr. Bagiona. He agreed with Mr. Pana. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u429	Gregoriadis spoke eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Kegeroglu, please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u431	It's his county!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u432	I have agreed on what I should not have repeated. You'll give me a few minutes. I'm from Halkidiki. I know this as few as possible. Please. This is an area that is exactly the area of the Ancient Stagiers of Olympiados. You see a line, the street of Stavros - Olympiados and a descent to the sea. In the last decade there have been three floods of serious damage to the settlement from the severe weather phenomena. A sample of corporate social responsibility for a few hundred thousand euros, therefore. It's a road that goes down to Olympiad that has a bridge and a two-foot driveway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u433	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u434	It's the example of writing corporate social responsibility. And I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u435	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u436	Aristotle did not hear the Stagiritis and the area of the ancient Stagiras that you saw here. All of this is in three square miles. So this area is downgraded. I will ask the Minister for Culture, Agriculture, Development and Shipping questions. I do not want this area to be a dump. Because here you see a centre of aristotle studies in a kilometre is the stagnation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u437	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u438	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you. You didn't let me say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u439	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u440	It is not possible that the latter and those affected in this place, particularly in Halkidiki, do not speak. Since the morning at 10:10 so far, they've only got a right for six minutes. You are epicly unacceptable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u441	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no possibility for the members of the prefecture - so this House has decided - above.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u442	It's his county!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u443	If you'd thought about it, you should suggest it. Anyone who has such proposals to make them at the right time, not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u444	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u445	I know it's right. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. I have advocated that he speak more and why he is concerned with his prefecture - although I did not ask, of course - but also why I expected him to say that he would vote against the convention. With what Mr Vagionas said, which praised Mr Pana and Mr Loverdos, he had to say: 'I am voting against the contract, I am in favour of the investment, but I am voting against this contract because it actually has characteristics such that degrade the concept of public interest, social and local benefits'. It is a classic example of the bill that we are discussing government insufficiency and feasibility on the one hand and unreliability and hungerism on the other. That's a classic case. It is the debate that is taking place on investment each time and on the view of each party in relation to development and social cohesion. Things are straight today. Mr Skourletis accused PASOK, the government of George Papandreou because he promoted investment that produce wealth and which can guarantee social cohesion, create jobs, create local benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u447	In particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u448	On the other hand, the government accuses us of being philosophers. We are accused of being philosophical and we are philosophers. Yeah, of both. We are in favour of investment and sustainable development, in order to produce wealth and we are also in favour of a fair distribution of social justice, job creation and local benefit. We're the whole thing that's needed right now to get out of here. It is the perception that is needed in the use of the Recovery Fund and all the available resources in the country, the use of the wealthy sources, the human resources and all the opportunities we have. We cannot isolate every time the government of the faithful neoliberal concept of self-regulation of the market can only support investment, allowing the economy to regulate society and others to share jobs and wealth when not supporting growth and entrepreneurship in order to produce this wealth. We are in favour of investment, we are in favour of growth. That is why we say 'yes' to the development of the country's mining wealth, but at the same time we say that this development can be done by rules, with respect for the environment, with a view to social cohesion. This is not served by the specific contract which is unworthy of a Greek State contract with a business group. That is why we are voting against the convention. There comes Article 2 which regulates and restores things in relation to how resources relating to local development are managed. And we say: 'Yes, it is rationalization'. And we vote for it. But this is a controversy which is not only of purpose. It does not seem as an object to how a place will benefit, but at the same time there will be no damage to the environment and to other issues. The government's failure here has given it all up. I told them unreliable and opportunistic, and I have to substantiate. So Mr Skourletis, who previously protested at the acquired speed of the first semester, came and withdrew decisions to approve technical studies. Here's his decision. It was the acquired speed of the first semester.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u449	And the S.T.E. deserved me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u450	I said that things came in their place because you, as a opposition, remembered your opinion before 2015. So you come in May 2016 and you say "approved". That's a scurry, too. There's a lot of things coming as topics to decide, leaving them in the drawer. Mr. Tsipras is on his way. He says: 'When events change, preventive solutions must be given'. It's against Skourlet. And Mr. Tsipras did the simple thing. He replaced him, so that he could come right. Mr. Konstantinopoulos once said to Mr. Stathakis: 'You would be one as you should be right'. Mr. Stathakis comes in November 2016 and signes what Mr. Skourletis refused. Get out now of a government party and want to rule again. Take aside now from Mr Famello who was Minister and as long as he was Minister, there was no need to amend environmental conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u451	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u452	There was no need. Two months after leaving a Minister, he interviews and says that environmental conditions should change. Here it is. It does not say that the investment must be stopped, but that environmental conditions must be changed. I put it all in the Minutes because they really have to stay. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a monument of unreliableness and deportation. Can we move on, then? No way. That is why, gentlemen, let us not be in favour of the agreement you have brought us. Don't go in. I expect Mr Vayon, the Halkidiki colleague, who said things by name in relation to the nature of the contract, to vote against it. I expect him to vote against it. At the same time, we cannot cancel out a logic and development strategy because we are making such inadequate and deliberate policies to implement them. Why are you slandering big investments, gentlemen? You slander them when you do not guarantee jobs, when you do not guarantee social and local benefit, when you turn against local society in many cases or divide local society. Because there is work and problems at the same time. Narcoticize a development strategy that the country needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Stathakis is a son-in-law of Gortini and I have not said what Mr. Kegeroglu said. The second is that I thought you'd blame Mr. Bayeon for equal distances. Mr. Kegeroglu can't hear me. He's lost his sense of humor. I was saying that that is why you would blame Mr Bagiona: for equal distances he maintains. Mr. Dimitrios Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. The contract that is being discussed in this House should be taught in public procurement law as an example of how the interests of the public are undermined, how company profits are shielded and how a country's hands are bound for decades. Obviously as an example of avoidance. Minister, you have caused the intense and justified concern of the people of Thrace, not by accident. The gatherings from the current Prime Minister's reports were reintroduced in the address to the PTO in 2019. He said then: We are moving on to the investment of Halkidiki in Halkidiki and at the same time we are discussing with ELDORADO the revision of the concession agreement in Thrace. So because, Minister, the contract that we are discussing today has been negotiated in secret with the company and in the absence of the local society, I would like a very clear answer. Are you negotiating a new concession for Thrace with ELDORADO or not? Citizens are entitled to know this in Thrace. You must give an answer not to me, but to them. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that with such colonial-type contracts you will create an investment climate for the country? You're making a big mistake. With conventions converting our country into Bananas that satisfy every desire of companies by giving land and water, you are, unfortunately, addressing only the most aggressive foreign interests. What else can the favorable arrangements of the contract be signalled to the company? She doesn't want a metallurgy? All right, tell her. Let us refer this back to the future. If the company is forced to metallurgy "here we are", you tell them, giving them a white cheque even for a metallurgy using the cyanosis method. What is our country's mining rights talking about? Such companies would be jealous of them operating in African countries. Or is it not challenging to allow the company to export profits from duty-free extraction abroad? This is a tax evasion, gentlemen. In common: "Dogs salt and grind." The company is inconsistent with the control of the design of metallurgy by the State as a guarantee. And what are you doing? You remove it, giving it control to a committee where the majority of the company has it. Are environmental inspectors disturbing to control the company? To limit them, to keep them from bothering. You give them everything and they do not actually commit to jobs or the identification of workers. So long, gentlemen, since September 2019, we have been negotiating this contract? Negotiation takes place when you sit on the opposite side of the table. Unfortunately, you have been on the same side and signed what you have been dictated by committing the country's interests for decades. You commit the next governments to such an extent that they will either not be able to amend the terms of the contract or be forced to make huge payments to the company. If you are also negotiating for the concession in Thrace, as the Prime Minister himself has already announced, then our concern is absolutely justified. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is that your vision and plan? To turn northern Greece into an endless El Dorado from Halkidiki to Thrace? Is that why you set the way with the arrangements you voted on in the law on the modernisation of spatial planning, so that the specific spatial planning of the investment strategies prevails over regional planning plans? When you knew that Eastern Macedonia and Thrace's spatial planning that became law over SYRIZA prevents the mining activity of gold in the region? You should, gentlemen, know that local communities in Thrace have categorically rejected the mining activity of gold, because it undermines all the comparative advantages that the region has in the primary sector, in tourist development, in knowledge and in research, in natural and human resources, because it undermines sustainable development in the region. So no one is entitled to further downgrade an acronym like Thrace. The promotion of mining projects will weaken the already weak local economy and create a climate of abandonment and desertification of the region. Don't think of surprise or you'll cause the Thracians. Know that you will find a wall toward you, from all social and political forces, institutions and active citizens of the place. On this wall, after all, the signing by the government of Samaras of the agreement with "ELDORADO" for the passage to Evros collapsed in March 2013. I would therefore ask you not to repeat the same mistake. Mr President, for all these reasons I am voting against the contract in the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u455	Thank you very much for the time. Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides has the floor from the New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, with the signing of the Convention of 5 February between the Hellenic Republic and the Hellenic Republic and the Greek FRYSOS Convention today, the conditions are created for the completion of a very important investment in the country. This is a convention which creates legal certainty for the Contracting Parties which undertake obligations on either side that make the relationship operational and balanced and, as it seems mutually beneficial, and rapid resolution procedures are provided for in any resulting disputes. But it is also visible from the company's side to the state, and it could not be different after the waves that this relationship has gone through. We all remember the targeting, the incidents at the expense of investment, and the endless disputes that had haunted it. Everyone realises that no investment project can be unfolded into such an environment and when the investor feels unwanted, this usually makes him more cautious. And this is not in relation to the self-evident business risk, the risk accompanying each investment, but the instability of the country in which it is implemented with the uncertainty of the institutional framework, with the slowness in judging disputes. These are issues that prey on every investment. And it was not only the problematic history of this relationship that made it difficult to reach a new agreement, the negative conditions of the coronary came in which all business planning was precarious. However, Greece is now credible, and this is evidenced at a time when the world economy is suffering enormous shocks and all the states and our country are making great efforts to keep some jobs. In these circumstances, therefore, the Greek Government manages and signs an agreement, which is estimated to ensure five thousand jobs, direct and indirect and will bring to the public increased revenue from taxes and mining charges, a positive effect on trade balance and development in the mining industry. At local level, the economic impact is also expected to be positive, and commitments are made for compensation social benefits, as well as for workers and contractors active around the investment. However, guarantees are also provided for the protection of the environment by applying best practices and supervising the competent bodies. In particular now the investment project includes the completion of the Skouria project, the increase in the capacity of the Olympiad mine, the upgrading and expansion of the military port facilities. It is therefore a question of creating a framework that will enable the investment to exploit all mining capacities in the region for the benefit of all parties in terms of sustainability, efficiency and respect for the environment. But it is not only the relationship between the two parties, it is also the message emitted internationally, that Greece is no longer a country hostile to investors, but a trustworthy interlocutor that forms a friendly environment, but also with conditions of mutual respect for the common interest. And how is this increased public interest defined here? The benefits of the upgraded investment plan amount to $1.9 billion for extra investment, the modernisation and development of the mines, five thousand as we said before, direct and indirect jobs, with priority for the local workforce, 1 billion revenues for the Greek State from taxes, 191 million for the mining charges for the state and the local economy and 70 million for social and local development projects in cooperation with self-government and local communities. In addition, the new convention contains specific provisions for the management of antiquities, but also a framework for the review of the environmental impact study with both obligations and deadlines for the State to remember what we said earlier, about the company's reservations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important agreement which unlocks a large investment, which follows on from other flag agreements and as the precursor to the final arrangements for the start of construction work in Greece. But the Opposition and, above all, the Civics do not say to break out of its obsessions and ideologies. He played again the tape of the slavery, interests and denounced political transactions. The party, whose top executives are controlled for business trucks, threatened to denounce the investment agreement in the European Competition Commission, namely that it would force the country to recover and indemnify it. He promised that he would overthrow the contract when it comes to things and somewhere there, SYRIZA's rapporteur has informed that the differences have entered the contract, because we see the political change that comes. I would therefore remind you that the contract has a potential duration of fifty years and we do not aspire to exhaust it as a government, although with the policy pursued by SYRIZA, it is not possible for the citizens to trust it until then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. We continue with Mr. Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. We think that there is nothing more subtle than trying to convince an entire people to admit and give the indestructible wealth of his country, be it mineral wealth, be it factories in the neural branches of the economy and also key players in the development of our country. And the worst of all is this regression, the smashing of workers, the destruction of the environment, the depth of our country's dependence on you to call it a public interest. This is really disgusting. You have all of you, those who have ruled, removed from our people one of the most important possibilities for development, for progress, for a better life in a country that has everything: Rich underground, important means of production, workers, scientists, researchers. It has everything that it needs to solve modern issues and to fully meet its needs. All this became a waste in the hands of a handful of parasites, business groups. The lack of energy from lignite for industrial use transformed it into dependency by the RES groups and more accurate energy for the people and devastation of western Macedonia. The possibility of producing vehicles from ELVO turned it into a dependence on Israel. The possibility of developing the industry next to "LARCO", but also of developing the possibility of electric drive, you will also be able to transform it into a dependency. Our country's ability to extract oil turned it before its time into "TOTAL", "ExxonMobil" and private ELPE. You hand over the contract with even worse terms to the mining industry that is of great importance to the overall production activity. Mining in Halkidiki has special characteristics, because it concerns gold mining. The gold and its possession are of great importance. They play a role in stock formation, in how much it affects the formation of monetary policy and the country's economic power. Its importance for international trade is undeniable. Such a public interest can't stand it anymore! Exploiting and depleting the gold reserves by Eldorado now amounts to theft of an important resource for the working class, the Greek people, for the next generations. The controversy between the New Democracy that accuses SYRIZA of the anti-development prejudices and the crackdown of SYRIZA from the left opposition phase with categorical refusal to invest in today's realistic position to promote investment reveals pre-designed entrepreneurialism towards our people with divided roles in this phase, namely the theft of wealth belonging to the Greek people, due to the specific processing technology of gold ore that is being exploited creates very serious risks to the health and life of the workers and the inhabitants and has a strong negative impact on the local society and the environment. And the worst of all is the working conditions in which workers are subjected, particularly contractors. State control is almost non-existent, since all the governments so far have put your stone in the depreciation and understood of the mining inspection. On the basis of the complaints made by the association, there are incomplete safety measures, nor was milk given to the groundhandling workers. Workers are forced to work under adverse working conditions, with incomplete groundwater ventilation, not adequately supported, with increased risk of rock collapse, with damaged machinery and equipment, with high intensification of work under constant pressure to increase production. I quote without spins and without approaches the real demands that have been put before claims and struggles at this time: Compliance with the rules of ventilation in the underground mine, the rules on geotechnical models security to support the stadium, no inappropriate behaviour or threat to the worker, breaks and resting places on the basement and surface, exhaust gas control of the machinery, air-conditioning on all machinery, communication network in front of all workers' groups, installation of emergency telephones on all work fronts, regular maintenance and repair of machinery and vehicles, per working floor to operate only one machine at the same time, adequate vehicles for the transport of workers to and from the basement, maintenance of working hours, retrospective measures against COVID, recruitment of workers and scientific staff, no redundancy of employees, conversion of all contracts to an unspecified. They claim them, ladies and gentlemen of the governments, all of this. So they don't. We ask: is that possible? Where are we? The Middle Ages? What is this disgrace that there is no respect for workers' lives? Who's that? Those to whom everything is due, those who from the hearts of the earth bring to light what is most precious, those who objectively shorten their own lives. In them, therefore, state and employer, you do not even allow them the basics for restoring their health and then selling and protecting the environment. To the only people needed for society and their economy, you treat them as if they were to fly, while the capitalist shareholders - parasites who have not set foot in the walls and in the factories you drown in their profits, like their political staff, that is, the parties that legislate this robbery of wealth, you pay this multiplely. Of the only ones they're producing. Mercy! Of this, the worker and our people as a whole must be rid of living and enjoying all that they are produced, all that they own and are much more than what they can imagine. Workers' struggles are in the right and fair direction and lead to this clearing. The Communist Party will be with all its forces on their side until there are conquests. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u459	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Vassiliou Yoyaka from New Democracy. After the speech, Mr. Lazarus Tsaldaridis and Mr. Gokas from the Change Movement and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u460	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the investment agreement which today... (It doesn't sound due to poor Webex connection) a good news. It's a good news... (It doesn't sound due to poor Webex connection) our place and economy. This is a good... (It doesn't sound due to poor Webex connection) ...so now, to those who invest in splitting and artificial polarizing, to those who resort to another era's labels to hide their political discomfort. So the reopening of the investment in Halkidiki... (It doesn't sound due to poor Webex connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Yoyaka, we can't hear you. We will continue with Mrs Constantina Adamou and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Goka, can you hear me? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u464	I can hear you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the health crisis with pandemic and loss to human lives, but also at the same time economic crises, it is imperative that our national strategy should be formulated in dialogue and consultation on the productive and development reconstruction of our country, with a vision for the country and for society, with employment, dignity and social cohesion. The country does not need unnecessarily pulsions and divisions, much more in local societies. It needs a project that will make use of the resources of the next programming period and the Recovery Fund. Greece also needs private investments of strategic importance as it is also an important condition in the course of its economic reconstruction. These are investments that make use of domestic wealth and add value to it from processing, processing and exports. In this context, the questions also concern the current debate on the ratification of the revised contract between the Greek State and the company "ELLINIKIKI FRYS", the mines of Kassandra in Halkidiki: How much is this a contract that serves our strategic objectives that we have not co-ordinated? How does it create terms and conditions for the smooth social and economic life of the region of Halkidiki? How is the public interest served? How is environmental and biodiversity protection and employment guaranteed through sustainable investment development, such as the installation and operation of a metallurgy plant in Halkidiki, which will multiply the benefits of both public finances and employment? Through the debate these days on the committee and in particular on the bodies, but also on a number of points, questions and arguments which our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, Mr Panas, and today our parliamentary representative, Mr Katrinis, have put forward very few points, ambiguous or vague, and issues relating to the monitoring of the implementation of the Convention. There are two serious gaps in dialogue and consultation, one at the level of local bodies and local society and the other at the level of Parliament, where there are gaps which do not allow a constructive dialogue to form the most advantageous contract for the exploitation of Halkidiki ore. He's coming to vote as he is. But this is a matter that has a past and history behind it. Everything has been reported. The investment has so far proceeded with decisions by previous governments and our party has been positive towards the prospect of this investment in 2004, 2011, 2013. Today, however, we are not discussing the need or the position on the investment, but a specific contract concluded by the current government. Its provisions create many obligations and obligations for the Greek State, many possibilities and flexible rights for the holding company, such as the provision that the company is appointed by an independent environmental auditor, who is compensated for the provision of its services by the company itself, the condition of its presence and its assent to weaken and cancel the control of the public environmental auditors. In addition, the company should submit to the State in twenty-four months a written proposal for the development, construction and operation of a metallurgy plant. However, because of the way in which the Committee on Metallurgy is established and operated it will only create deadlocks. A clause on the compensation of the company is laid down when a public responsibility occurs. At the same time, the revised contract exempts the company from fulfilling its earlier obligations, while it is agreed to waive both Contracting Parties' claims without payment of compensation and to resolve future disputes, provision is made for the possibility of an international arbitration based in Athens and the judgment of the Arbitration Court is final, binding and irrevocable in contrast to the current jurisdiction to resolve the disputes involved in the Greek courts. So, with all this, we also see a failure to safeguard the public interest, as well as the possibility of losing revenue both in future and in the past. We have also tabled an amendment concerning the increase in the percentage received by municipalities from mining leases to 40% with the possibility of surcharge in exceptional cases, such as the pandemic, and the direct return of the green fee of 1% on the value of the products sold, which is available exclusively to communities within the limits of which these quarrying operate, so that local government receives the maximum possible rewards and we invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to accept and vote for it, but also to all colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are debating today does not in any way correspond to a set of conditions which will ensure the public interest, guarantee public control of environmental protection through an independent authority, as we have proposed, the recompense for local communities, sustainable development through an integrated metallurgy process for the production of the final product of gold and the prospects of employment in this region. So in relation to the need for investment and the importance of the exploitation we recognise and agree on the principle, these are the issues that differentiate us from the content of this contract, as described, and that is why we do not agree with this framework. As also, we do not agree either with the hypocritical and ruthless attitude of Civilian Representation, but with the general perceptions and the approach and concessions of the Government to market players. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment agreement that is being ratified today by Parliament is good news, good news from what our economy needs in this difficult time, good news against the image that the opposition is seeking to pass on to the government on the basis of last week's events in Nea Smyrna, against those who invest in splitting and artificial polarization, to those who resort to labels of another time to hide their political discomfort. So the relaunching of the investment in Halkidiki is something that deserves the attention and interest of the citizens, and our government has many reasons to want this development to be heard and not to pass through brief procedures, as has been heard in the committee responsible in the last few days. It is, moreover, beyond its positive impact on the public, employment, the environment and the local society to which our rapporteur and other colleagues have referred in detail, a development with particular symbolism. It shows that our country can attract long-term investments. It sends a clear message that it is taking steps forward in order to create an environment more friendly to the investor and demonstrates the will, the determination to solve problems that have kept significant investments established for years, as is the case with another important investment, the Greek investment. There is, therefore, a government today, which seeks and finds solutions to problems where the former discovered problems in solutions. There is today a government that does not hesitate to take decisions without undue delay, where the former was hiding behind pretexts and chose to be a spectator, showing that the protection of the environment and social cohesion can be high on the agenda of a liberal progressive proposal. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, creative, constructive criticism of the convention's provisions is another thing, and another attitude which, despite the opposite assurances, reveals "allergies" on the private initiative, an obsession with the stereotype of the evil stranger who exploits our national wealth with so-called colonial agreements. What I think is of the greatest importance in the agreement that we are discussing is that there is a new beginning, a new beginning in the investment of the Hellenic FRYSOS in the mines of Kassandra. The original 15 years ago, the investment project had to be renewed. Data and challenges in terms of environmental protection, social benefits and management have changed, as has been the case with ore treatment and environmental recovery technologies. The agreement is being modernised and aligned according to the investment framework governing other foreign direct investment in our country, such as the FAFORT regional airports and the concessions for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. So this new principle had to be done and now also the new investment plan of the "ELLENIC FRYSOS" meets all the characteristics that our country must seek from a direct foreign investment. It has a long horizon with what this means to its benefits and viability. The investment will be carried out in a framework of security, law and stability with known ex ante rules, rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties. A significant number of direct jobs are created with decent remuneration, but also a equally significant number of indirect jobs. There are many different and important benefits to local society. This is also recognised in the recommendation of the Aristotle Municipal Authority, in which, despite objections to public consultation, there is talk of the positive sign of the agreement in terms of the development of the environment, employment and corporate social responsibility. The public interest is guaranteed, but the benefits for the national economy are strengthened. The investor is clearly committed to the implementation of the investment and to the fulfilment of its obligations. It also undertakes to further reduce the environmental footprint of its activities by exploiting the best available techniques. A mechanism is set up to encourage dialogue, transparency and accountability and deal with bureaucracy. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is characteristic of a foreign direct investment, of what our country must and can seek. They are the characteristics of a new beginning, a new relationship that the New Democracy Government needs to have with the international but also the domestic investment community. In the stubbornness of those who invest in a climate of misery, risk and destruction, we in New Democracy continue to do the "Truth Agreement" that we signed with Greek society in July 2019, remaining committed to what we are committed to: investment for more and better jobs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u467	Thank you. Mrs Adamou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to declare a contract between the Greek state and the company "ELLINIKIKI FRYS", the object of which is obviously contrary to the principles of environmental, social and economic sustainability, as well as to sustainable development. The Government's insistence on the promotion and facilitation of this activity raises many questions, since the actual and sole beneficiary of the mining of the ores in the north-east of Halkidiki is no other than this company and not the Greek State. There is no doubt that this convention is scandalous, as it prevents the public interest and empowers literally land and water to a company whose activity has already proved to be environmentally, socially and economically damaging. More specifically, under the terms of this Convention, the company ‘ELLENIC FRUYS’ has the right to use as much water as it needs from rivers, from wells, even creating dams where it wishes, for its convenience, with absolute priority over any other activity. You understand very well what this means to tourism, but also to all the manifestations of life. Under the terms of the contract, therefore, the Government turns north-east Halkidiki into a peculiar colony of the company "GREENIK FRYS", which will be an internationally negotiated example for avoidance. For a number of years, the permanent inclination of the supporters of this activity that the environmental burden will be somewhat balanced by the large economic benefits that the Greek State will derive from metallurgy, i.e. from the production of pure gold and other precious metals at local level. The original contract provided for the obligation to produce clean metals from a metallurgy plant to be implemented by the company using the proposed method of instant melting. However, it has long been shown that this method is not technically practicable in arsenosil rocks, such as those of the Skouries, which, in conjunction with the rejection of the alternative method of cyanosis by the Council of State in the past, leads to a dead end in the metallurgy part. While one would expect the State to safeguard, of course, its financial interests, by denouncing the contract and by claiming compensation for for foregone gains, because of the company's inertia to produce valuable metals of high added value, since it has already proceeded with its extraction, the Government with this contract fully exempts the company from any state claim, now allowing its obligation for metallurgy on a voluntary basis. So, we're talking about zero benefit for the Greek economy, while at the same time excessive damage to the environment. It is clear, therefore, that the construction of a metallurgy plant and the production of pure gold in our country is not on the company's agenda, as the export of ores and their enrichment in third countries with a more favourable tax regime enhances the company's financial interests. After that, and also after the scourge of the account of significant State benefits from the company's non-existent metallurgical activity, the Ministry, in its attempt to sort out the feasibility of ratifying the new contract, returns with the account of creating new jobs. The long-term work of the workers, who are under a special hostage regime, continues, since their wages are dependent on this company and they are being used to fight for the interests of the company, causing a great deal of division in local society, even within the families themselves. However, this account of the Government is also dismantled, since the company is in no way bound by the contract for the creation of new jobs and is given the opportunity to amend its investment plan as appropriate. In any case, jobs depend largely on the construction or non-building of the metallurgy plant, which, as I said before, is likely to never be created and thus there will be no new jobs. In addition, potential jobs will not be relevant to local society, after their identification quota has been abolished, 90% that was in place, and the region is also undermining financially. It should be stressed that, under this Convention, the State will compensate the company in the event of a strike, for example when safety measures are not complied with or working hours are violated. Therefore, no profits for the public and no guaranteed new and well-paid jobs that contribute positively to the overall balance. On the other hand, the deterioration that has caused a company to the environment over the years is given. There's no question of that. It has already been demonstrated by the various convicting judgments given by the Greek courts, following the autopsies of the state environmental auditors in the area, and related, among other things, to overrun the waste disposal limits, and to the pollution of waste from fertilisers, as well as to the uncontrolled disposal of hazardous waste to the environment. While one would expect the state control mechanism to be tightened up to a company with a certain history of violations, the government is moving on to new facilities for the Greek FRYS, which are unheard of of for a modern, European and we want to believe a free country. In addition, according to the recent government's public procurement legislation, the company will now check itself, since the control of compliance with the environmental conditions leaves the relevant director of the Ministry and is assigned to an independent environmental inspector who will be selected and paid by the company itself. Finally, I must stress my particular concern about the construction and operation of a landfill area of hazardous waste, such as that of Kokkinolaka, which is on the one hand above the aqueduct providing the coastal settlements and, on the other, is in an active seismic breach, making it a time bomb for the environment and the inhabitants of the region. This contract we are called upon to ratify gives land and water to "ELLENIKIKI FRYS", contrary to the principles of the social, environmental and economic viability of the region and is in complete contrast to the public interest in the whole. It is therefore worthy of wonder why the government insists on promoting an activity that favours only the company, since no economic benefits bring to the public and no positive balance in jobs, while on the contrary destroys the environment and disrupts social cohesion. History will prove the crime committed in the region, but unfortunately it will be too late to save all that has been destroyed: the environment, aquarium, seas, health, tourism, cultural resources, quality of life and society as a whole. As far as we are concerned, we will not allow this Convention to be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u469	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy and the rapporteurs then the Minister. Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u470	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Greece will not proceed to the new era with wishes, nor will economic blossom come with "leaf trees", with demands on past centuries' ideals and witch hunting. When Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy took over the rule of the country, they clearly set as one of the main pillars of our country's development perspective the turn to real investment and to focus on healthy entrepreneurship that brings new jobs and prosperity to local communities, while respecting the protection of the environment. The agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the public limited company "ELLENIC FRUYSOS" which we are discussing today in plenary does so precisely, restoring and setting on new sound foundations an important, fruitful and consequent investment for both the local and the national economy, leaving aside the chronic delays that have not only threatened its implementation, but have worked corrosively for society in their wider region, for workers and investors. It is a renewed agreement that has been initially signed for seventeen years, extending the economic and social development of Halkidiki, which achieves an increase in direct and indirect public revenues, which doubles direct and increases indirect jobs in the region, but also offers a number of compensatory benefits to local government, while at the same time shielding its rich and valuable environmental footprint. In any case, it optimises the current situation very much and gives perspective to a place that experienced toxicity and division as an impact of the SYRIZA government's manhattan policy, which in the region saw yet another opportunity to unfold its deep disdain for any investment in the country, leaving hundreds of unemployed people to their fate to exercise revolutionary "getting". And it now comes as a Civic Opposition now, to upload a wall from the outset, even to discuss this bill, making a ruthless speech about crimes, scandals, violations of duty and infidelity, a colonial-style agreement. SYRIZA, who for the days the investment indicators reminded of polar temperatures, SYRIZA, who for his days had been persecuted, slandered and slandered, is now coming to stand up again for absolute and sterile refusal, without proposals, without these. So, what do you want, ladies and gentlemen of the Officer's Response? Unemployment in the area you don't want. But you don't want investment. But how, in other words, do you imagine growth? With the lily, will you then "not everything" of your instrongers, without cooperation, without good faith, without dialogue with investors? The Government of the New Democracy is not prepared to pursue policies condemning the wider region in stagnation. The new Agreement ensures the implementation of the investment, transparent and accountable, giving life and economic viability to an entire place, maintaining some six hundred and fifty existing jobs and creating another three thousand four hundred direct and indirect jobs, as well as nine hundred additional temporary jobs in the construction sector. It prejudges the investment of 80m euros in the framework of corporate social responsibility for social and local development projects in cooperation with the local society. It establishes the independent environmental auditor in order to speed up and rationalise environmental control in accordance with existing legislation. It further asserts the framework for the protection and promotion of antiquities for the benefit of the Greek State in the areas in which the company operates. It magnifies revenues for the Greek State and ensures legal certainty, removing any legal doubts as to the duration of existing mining concessions and definitively regulating the conditions for the renewal of mining concessions, as well as the investor rights for the development of mining. It introduces digital governance processes, establishing an electronic environmental monitoring system of at least four hundred points, which few mines in the world have implemented. The aim is a rational, sustainable and environmentally sensitive exploitation of our mineral wealth for the benefit of Greek society. Of course you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, see these fine letters. Where everyone sees growth and a common place of convergence, you see duty abuses and infidelity against the public interest by the Minister of the Environment, allegedly because he prefers the company's interests. The current Minister, however, is trying to allay your own uncompromisingly, not only by eliminating with Article 11 of the new Convention and for the benefit of our national economy the risk of convicting the State which you created by means of the non-injurious clause against the public sector, but also by including an explicit provision that under no circumstances is the Greek State waived from any claim, nor is the company exempted from criminal offences. This is the difference of ethos, political quality and a sense of responsibility that distinguishes us from you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And this is a warning difference between Greek citizens every day judge and evaluate it, placing you more and more on the political margin of the new era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u471	It is up to the rapporteurs. Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u472	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, we are in front of a vote that will be a black spot in the history of the House, despite what it has voted on over the last ten years. I would like to repeat a question we have raised to the Minister. He has not answered almost any of our questions. I hope he'll answer that. After the contract was passed, if the company just decides to denounce it to leave, will it be compensated? On the basis of your contract, will it be compensated for most of the escaping gains? There is no corresponding contract in any other country. There is no contract that creates an unbaptised public in a large part of Halkidiki in exchange for some revenues for the State, which will be about 2% of the company's revenues and, indeed, the revenues that the company will make, the profits. In any case, a dystopia is being created for the north-east of Halkidiki. A dystopia is created, burdening on all other professional activities, public health and tourism. As the citizens write on social media, it is true, after your agreement was implemented, that "the same will not exist in Halkidiki". In fact, that is what you will cause, an environmental impoverishment of a unique place, without any benefit to the public. And if there were, of course, he wouldn't have justified it. This convention, we, as Mera25, will at any time cancel it and do not apply it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk for a while. We don't have anything to add. We probably had, if the Minister was talking. He hasn't said anything so far, all day. Perhaps, he created some issues to comment. What we want to ask the Minister is for an amendment, which I think there is and has been tabled. Can it be accepted? We would like to know what will be in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u475	Mr. Famelos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr President. The fact is that the Minister's lack of place today and yesterday in our last committee also raises serious questions about both the government's political will and the possibility of defending what we are discussing today. But what do we have, Mr President? Because I want to provoke the Minister's place on parliamentary terms. We have a company inconsistent, which for seventeen years has not even been able to obtain the authorization for the metallurgy study, which is arbitrage - which I hope you will respect - considers it to be the basis of the judicial convention. In order to cover its weakness, this company played political games along with the opposition, while SYRIZA was a government and blackmailed the workers and through employees many times and the government. This farm wasn't coming out. The technical chamber of central Macedonia has said it since 2010-2011. The metallurgy technology did not come out, it could not be viable. And as a result, this company was unable to do so either through the studies or with the contractual obligations, as the arbitration and the Council of State considered, or with the environmental obligations, so that they were no longer convicted and reported for felony. And the government comes, without implementing the contract and by violating the duty of the ministers, it does not denounce the previous contract - even though it seems to exist - of the company and 'take it back', because this company has felt the balance with SYRIZA. And it enables it to have all the rights of sovereignty in an area, to have the first special economic zone in Greece without any commitment, while the public will be controlled by the company and will also find funds for it. We, Mr President - to clarify what Mr Kegeroglu said earlier - in August 2019 we did say to the Athenian News Agency, myself, that with very recent reports of infringements and the Scientific Committee, we found that the investment project is not being implemented. It's the interview. Mr. Kegeroglu hid it. We are saying'very recently'. Since then, we have raised a question of amending GDP. In January 2020, we asked for parliamentary control to be given a report from GRANT THORNTON and the new agreement. Mr President, it has not been given a year and a month. And in November 2020 we warned about the obligation to terminate the contract. Therefore, with absolute consistency, SYRIZA identified the infringements and handed them all over for the public interest to the Government. But the government has done nothing about all this. And that is a serious problem, Minister. And what will happen - has it not answered and we want an answer, please - with the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union? Why don't you give us the evaluation of "GRANT THORNTON" and what your position is in what the company says against the S.H.E. is. and environmental inspectors? But I have to say, Mr President, that we already have three new developments. Workers are making stops and strikes next week. So we have the first reaction from the workers. We have a resolution of the Municipality of Volvis, which is the neighbouring Municipality of Olympiad, which has a protest about the unconsulted signing of the Convention and a concern about the intensification of mining activity without upgrading measures to address environmental impacts. Furthermore, consideration is given to the fact that the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" under the cloak of the agreement and under the pretext of investment, gains greater freedom in the implementation of business projects. Still protesting about the lack of care for the regions. They refuse - I say concisely - to accept the transit of trucks with toxic loads and demand the restoration of the road network and call on the government to take serious risks into account. I am not saying everything because I understand, Mr President, that you have a matter of time too. Thirdly and most importantly, what the eleven major environmental organisations of Greece say is: the ANIMA, Arcturus, the Greek Nature Protection Company, the Embassy of Prespecies, the Institute of Environmental Research "Pelagos", Callisto, the Ecological Recycling Company, iSea, WWF HELLAS, say - and environmental organisations co-sign it - that the contract that has been put to ratification in the Greek Parliament is a serious loss of vital environmental protection and creates serious issues for the application of the law of the European Union, without guaranteeing the public interest and public control of the public in safeguarding environmental protection. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no one wants this document to reach the European committee. It'll still be a fine. Will you take this step, too? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Heimaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u478	For a minute, Mr President, I shall take the floor. The Minister will be placed. I want to tell you, because it is my first experience as rapporteur in a bill, that it was really a positive experience. I think that all days and during committee meetings, but also today, answers have been given. And so many other days if we met, they would be the same and they would be the opposition's reactions and particularly the Civilian Anti-Population Officer. I would like to say that today's agreement shows the way our country must move on the next day, after the pandemic. In order to attract real investment, which will bring jobs to our place, it will have to move exactly in the way it has been initiated and in the context of this agreement. It must dare, go out and claim active jobs, investment, because tomorrow the Greeks will go through these investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u479	We're finishing up with the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr President. I think the time has passed and a lot of things have been said, four meetings have taken place in the committee responsible and, to tell the truth, I have not heard anything new from the rapporteurs for opposition and from the Members who have spoken. They reiterated what they had said to the committees. However, it is one question and we have to answer it. Do we or do we not want investment in the country? Do we or do we not want decent jobs paid? Do we want or do we not want the Greeks, the new Greeks to stop immigrating abroad, staying in our country and being able to live with dignity in their families? Do we want or do we not want the progress of the Greek society and the sustainable development of the Greek economy? I think no one disagrees with what I said. The point is that I see that there are different ways of approaching how we can have and create sustainable growth, create stable, high-paid jobs. Here I have a list describing what cumulative foreign direct investment by country is, with reference year in 2017. That's what I found with a quick search online. Greece, with regard to the attraction and cumulative foreign direct investment it has attracted throughout this period, is located in the sixty-seventh place between a list of twenty-eight countries from around the world, with an FDI-foreign direct investment index - fellow Member, which totals $34,180 billion cumulatively aggregated foreign investment. Do you know where Morocco is? It has 57 billion, Ukrainian 71 billion, Israel 119 billion, Cyprus 178 billion according to the FDI index, with a reference year in 2017. Of course Poland, Italy and the other European countries are much higher on this list. What does that mean? That the country, unfortunately, with a reference year in 2017 was not an attractive destination for direct foreign investment. If you find me another way to create jobs, without there being domestic and foreign investors risking their money to come to invest in the country and thus to create jobs, please testify to it and perhaps get a Nobel economy on this planet. I'm putting down the list to see what the country's return is on attracting foreign investments. So we want both domestic and domestic, but also to attract foreign investments. This can't be done if we get rid of the people we've already been able to bring to the country. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the minutes the list mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is where we have an investment. Good or bad there is. It's been working for years. Mining activity in Halkidiki has existed since antiquity. This company has been active since 2003 with its legal entity. We already have mining activity. Do you want her or don't you want her? Do you want to stop her? You must respond clearly. Today the rapporteur for anti-population has dared to say that we are 'in the end we want mining activity, but we do not want it in this way. We want it in another way." Please explain what this other way is, why you've been ruling for four and a half years. The Greek people now know the world. There are indeed the SYRIZA government and we have seen what happened in the four and a half years that ruled this place. We saw if the activity was increased, we saw whether the jobs were increased. We saw whether the company was investing or if five hundred jobs were lost from the paragliding policy then implemented by the Greek administration under the direction of the SYRIZA government. Here's the contract that existed before. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the contract between the Greek State and the Greek FRYSOS, a contract of about fifteen pages. She's the one we received from you. You haven't changed her. You have not done anything for four and a half years to improve, as you say it must now be done. We have had another contract negotiated for eighteen months, the one you called as colonial, supposedly wrote it by the company, supposedly read it for the first time in this Chamber, we of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and the MPs of the Partnership. This is seventy pages contract - there are hundreds of pages, over seven hundred with the annexes - which really changes and ensures the public interest. Because what we are talking about today is exactly what it is. It is a contract between a company, an investor, an investment company, and the Greek State. Through this contract, we expect to protect the public interest, namely that Greece has more benefits, that the national economy has more benefits, that the local society has more benefits, that the local economy has more benefits and that there is far more jobs, and that the people who live there can have a better level of life and see with optimism and hope for the future. This is how we see the country can move forward. It must be a reliable investment destination. We must have a stable legislative framework that does not change, of course, according to what the government is changing, whenever the Minister changes, whenever anyone wants to bring about changes, which ultimately stumbling and increasing red tape and making investment difficult. We want, of course, a favourable tax regime. Since New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over, steps have already been taken to reduce the tax burden and attract investment. Of course, I have told you that we also want legislation that will facilitate and remove bureaucratic obstacles so that we can attract investment. You said we were flirting with the violation of duty and infidelity against the public interest. You have repeatedly spoken of a colonial contract. You even claimed that we have exceeded ourselves in abolishing the Greek administration. You said that the Greek administration was supposed to be abolished by this convention. You accused us of accepting what the company has asked for. Of course, if we had done everything you say - I repeat the same question, that is, what you said to us 'It took us eighteen months to do all that we did not do eighteen weeks or did not do eighteen days, or did not do seventeen hours, as the Prime Minister did,' which came to us and brought us a third and inappropriate memorandum - I repeat, the question is: You have not told us whether you want mining activities to continue in this area and the thousands of people who work either directly or indirectly, who are being hanged by the operation of this company. What has the company done so far? Because there's a story. Is he harmful? He had a contract with the Greek State with the company since 2003. What did that contract say? There was initially a projection of EUR 753 million. Has the EUR 753 million been invested? EUR 126 million were invested. 30% -35% more money was invested than was foreseen by the initial Greek public contract with the company. Were jobs increased? I told you and the committee. In 2006, jobs were four hundred eighty. 2012 was a thousand thirty-five. In 2017, on your own days, five hundred people who worked there lost their jobs because you delayed giving the necessary technical permits to implement the investment, the factory in Skouria Halkidiki. And in 2020 we have a thousand six hundred fifty workers, without counting on the five hundred who have lost their jobs from your own practice. We had revenues for the state of EUR 360 million. The Greek suppliers selling to the company had revenues of EUR 800 million. They have spent 348 million euros on wages, allowances and employers' contributions, most of which have gone to local society. People and their families have lived there. Other professions, which are hanged by activity and available income, have lived, which is spent by people working in mining in this region, in Halkidiki. EUR 19 million has been allocated to local society to corporate social responsibility initiatives and actions by the company. Therefore, not only did the original plan, which was provided for in the original operational plan, which was included in the 2003 Agreement with the Greek State, was implemented, but the benefits were more than that provided for by the Agreement itself. This shows the way, in other words where the current agreement that we are bringing to ratification in the Greek Parliament can go and which, as I will say below, has far more benefits than what we have so far had from this activity. Some answers. You are talking again and again about the issue of metallurgy, and it was really reasonable to ask the question that my colleague, Minister Adonis Georgiadis, addressed you. Do you want a metallurgy or don't you want a metallurgy? Because you once didn't want to. A Member here of the Greek Parliament, elected at a previous parliamentary term in that region, a representative of SYRIZA, had lifted the banner of resistance and revolution. He didn't want the metallurgy. That slogan came out. With this slogan SYRIZA took a large percentage of the 2015 elections. Of course, the people saw what happened and we know the results of the elections in this region too. And I'm asking you, then you said you didn't want the metallurgy. Now you want the metallurgy? Answer clearly. And if you want metallurgy, tell us which type of metallurgy you want, because that is an interesting question, colleagues of SYRIZA. You can answer us. Who's the type of metallurgy you prefer? It's a conversation we're going to have in the next period. Indeed, in the context of the 2006 investment project, the ‘Hellenic FRYSOS’ would implement its contractual obligation to build a metallurgy plant by means of the instantaneous melting method. The reality is that in 2019 the “ELELANDS FRAMEWORK” reassessed this method. He hired an international house of renowned prestige, Hatch, who specialises in the preparation of such economic sustainability studies at global level and found it not to be viable this method of metallurgy. And so we had to do something. In your view, as far as I understand it, you say that we should denounce the contract. That's what you're saying. The Greek State should have come to denounce the contract once the "Hellenic FRYSOS" had failed to fulfil a contractual obligation. What would happen then? I repeat, we have no blindfolds, we are not dogmatic. We are considering all the alternative scenarios. I told you in committee too. A serious politician, a serious and responsible governor, examines all the scenarios, whether he likes them or does not like them, whether he agrees ideologically or disagrees. In the end, however, it has to look at them all, weigh them up on objective criteria and finally decide what is best for the public interest. And when we say 'public interest', we mean the interest of the Greeks, we mean the interest of the people. What, then, should we do, in your view? Disclosure the contract. What would happen then? The State would get all the assets back. According to what you said, he would also receive a reasonable remuneration, since the complaint was due to the "ELLENIKI CRYSOS". It would be her fault that the contract would be terminated. And what would happen? We've studied it. We do not learn either in the chashides' heads, nor play, as was mentioned in the House, the fate of the Greek people Kroner - letters. Firstly, the reasonable thing is that the thousands of six hundred people who are now working in activity would lose their jobs. The State should be directly and at its own expense, i.e. the Greek taxpayers, the maintenance of the mines, according to the financial advisor of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, ‘GRANT THORNTON’, known as a valid company, with well-known financial advisers. The government of SYRIZA had also worked with this company for various studies and financial advice. I'll testify to her, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u481	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u482	I'm filing it now. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are doing everything here openly, transparently. We don't hide. We do not have excellent and unsatisfactory investors. We only have one in mind: the public interest, namely the interest of the people. We like or do not like the investor, we are trying to get the best we can from an agreement that we have received from you and we are trying to achieve the best result for Greek citizens, I repeat, and only. According to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, the public should therefore take over the public at his own expense the maintenance of the mines, which would, of course, receive from the Greek FRYSOS, which would leave the activity and costs now be 61 million euros. It would bear the costs of reducing the environmental impact of an inactive mine. Because, of course, the problems would remain and the restorations should be done and we should be maintained, we should manage the mine. It would have been EUR 137 million for a transitional period of five years until a new leaser was found, through a new competition, which would have to be done. Unless we wanted to shut it down permanently. Permanent locker, butchers, and then only repair costs, no work, and the Greeks who worked there, to go abroad to find a job, to live their families. Because that's what's going on in the province. You know, I was elected in the region of Greece last decade with this unprecedented crisis, unfolded from 2015 to 2019, how many Greeks migrated abroad, specialized Greeks. Here we have specialized Greeks who work, staff years of specialization in mining activity. You don't find that easy. Therefore, the State should, from now on, launch a long-term legal long-term dispute with the Hellenic FRYSOS in order to claim compensation. And then, as you know, the costs that the "ELLENIC FRUYS" had done between 2003 and 2019-2020, which we would have denounced, and we would have received something of value. You know, unfortunately, we don't get it by expropriating it at zero value. There are Greek courts, there is case law, there is a legal framework, there are arbitral courts and they come and say that "you have received something and for what you have received, you have to pay something". Ultimately, we assessed this whole thing and for a period of five years we thought it would take about five years to find a new investor. Of course, who would have come to regain his money, reinvest in Halkidiki, when we would have banished the previous investor? Anyway, let's just say someone's coming. These five years that would take place until a new investor was found, the "GRANT THORNTON" assessed them. And what did he decide? That the Greek State for this transitional period of five years would have to bear a net cost of 624 million euros, while the company would have obtained, according to the estimate of GRANT THORNTON, benefits net of EUR 656 million. That was a script. A possible scenario, to be fair, because no one really knows what will happen. Usually, when you close an activity and put a locker on it, it stays a deer and ends the case there. I've never seen Greece start with deer and then work easily. Now we're trying and it's not easy. That's why we don't want any companies closed down. All this, of course, is without counting on something else. What? The possible claims or rather the result of the claims already made by the Hellenic FRYSOS towards the Greek State, because, I repeat, the policy of the political leadership of the country in 2015-2019. This is where we need to talk about it. I also have the extrajudicials sent by the Greek State to the Greek State. I don't recognize anything, I don't accept anything, I'm just telling you, so you know it. Because you have to know them. Is it acknowledging if I read you the extrajudicial sent by a court of court by the "ELLENIC FRYS" to the Greek State, to the Environment and Energy Ministers, to the Finance Ministers, to the Development Ministers of the period 2015-2019? This is on December 19, 2018, SYRIZA Government. Does that mean I recognize the company's claims? But you must know what we have received, because there have been many heavy expressions here concerning fraud, duty violations. I want you to tell me what the damage will be to the public if we are to relieve it of these claims. What's he saying here? The "ELELENIKIKI CRYSOS" has been sent to the Greek State and is claiming. I read to you exactly the amounts it claims: Firstly, it calls on the Greek State to fully comply with the obligations of the contract and the law. In other words, the company considers that the Greek State does not comply with the obligations arising from the contract and from the Greek law. Secondly, it calls for the Greek State to pay the company - that is what the company says - I do not recognise anything, I repeat, in order not to be misunderstood, because they have also been heard in the Chamber - EUR 83 million in order to restore positive asset damage that the company has suffered because of loss of time. Thirdly, EUR 758 million is demanding the company to re-establish the depository asset loss that the company has suffered as a result of loss-making delays. It also calls for 8m euros as financial satisfaction, due to the moral damage caused by the illegal and responsible acts or omissions of the Greek State, as the company says. And where does he support this? I'm going to file the extrajudicial to read it, ladies and gentlemen. It is worth reading, why have they heard here say: “What is it? It is one of the thousands that come." In fact, Mr. Colleague, find me another out-of-court requesting 850 million from the Greek State. Find me another outlet for another investor. Because that was heard by your colleagues, that they allegedly reach the Greek public by investors claiming hundreds of millions of euros, almost EUR 1 billion. Why, then, does he claim this? Because it has failed to prevent the Greek State, that is, it has allowed - and that is where its injurious behaviour - the first is the closure of the installation of the electromechanical equipment of the Skouria enrichment plant. Date of birth: 1968. For what other reason? Because he refused to issue, otherwise, the necessary reason for approving the construction of the Skouri enrichment plant, derogating from the conditions of construction until August 2014. Refusal deemed illegal by the decision of the Council of State No 1449/15. In other words, he refused the Greek State to issue the necessary permits and appealed to the Council of State and was vitiated. The Council of State said that they were unlawfully rejected and these licences were not granted. It says here 15 reasons. You'll read them. I'll hand it over to you. The licence to build the Skouri enrichment plant has been delayed, omission and withdrawal of the visa for architecture and electromechanical design. He withdrew the State and the studies he had already issued, revocation which was deemed illegal and annulled by the Council of State's decision. That's what happened in the period 2015-2019. I'm filing the two out-of-courts. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the Minutes the above exotic documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Remember who ruled in 2015-2019. Twenty-four times the company appealed and was vindicated to the Council of State. I make twenty-four decisions of the Council of State which deserve the company, to read, ladies and gentlemen, Greek MPs and Greek MPs, and to find out how the Greek administration was dealing with then an investor. I am tabling the twenty-four decisions of the Council of State. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We come with Article 11, why is it worth saying this at last, and what do we anticipate? There are differences. What do existing differences mean, ladies and gentlemen? Differences relating to the company's claims for compensation against the State are to be understood. These are the existing differences. It's over and out. No other difference! On page 16 of the contract - from 671 pages - existing disputes mean differences that have as their sole object the company's claims for compensation against the State, as recorded in the two out-of-courts I have submitted to you. These are the existing differences. So we come to settle them. And what do we achieve? If you do not like it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we could - we will not do so, of course, because we will not leave such a risk to the Greek State - to eliminate this article. But tell us. I guess some people wouldn't sleep well at night if this article was deleted and there was no such term in the deal. What do we achieve with the settlement of disputes? The company agrees with the name and on behalf of itself and its related persons, it brings full and definitive settlement of the existing disputes and either in the future voluntarily and irrevocably resigns from everything that has to do with the settlements - disputes, in whatever jurisdiction, whether or not linked or arising. So what's the deal here with the company and what have we agreed on? That the Greek State is exempted from any claim of the company that has to do with the two out-of-courts, which I have tabled today and which I have analysed, without adopting them. So there is no risk for the Greek taxpayer to pay a single euro in the future because of the complaints and claims raised by the company, because of the paralysing policy that followed at the time, that SYRIZA was looking for, the then Prime Minister, who said more and more, finally did. But what he did, unfortunately, did not stop in 2015, in July, when he lost the election, but the consequences of the actions are still going on. If we don't take care of them, they're burdened with the Greek people and the Greek taxpayer. So you tell us to denounce the contract. We cannot invoke ignorance, nor lightness in dealing with these serious things that have been caused. Your proposal could damage Greek taxpayers with hundreds of millions of euros, would cause enormous damage to the country's credibility. Go get a foreign investor to invest in the country after. There would be a risk of thousands of jobs being lost. Five hundred jobs were lost in the summer of 2018, when the work in Skouria was stopped, because the permits had been withdrawn. Part of the local society would be destroyed. Go find you three thousand jobs provided through the contract, permanently high-paid. Above the average paid today by the workers in Greece, the skilled workers who work in these mining activities are paid. We have chosen to keep the contract alive and in this way we have kept the dignity of the people who work there and those who are going to work there in the coming years. With the solution we of course provide in the new contract and the possibility of twelve to twenty-four months for the company to submit a new proposal for the metallurgy plant and method...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u483	Minister, how much longer will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u484	I'm gonna need six, seven more minutes, Mr. President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 609 a,609 b,609 c]] We ensure the interests of the Greek State, as I will say below, since the mining charges are increased by what we have received. What is the amount of mining fees? It's worth saying that. We'll all answer it. Is Greece a sub-Saharan country? Some people said it was an African country. What do African countries have? Do they have anything? Any country in the world has something? Are there any inferior colleagues of SYRIZA and Opposition and higher countries? Why did I hear a lot of people pick us up with some countries that are supposedly what? What are African countries? Inferior? I'm asking. What's that? New one? How is the mining fee in the country and how is it determined? It is determined by a methodology. It starts from 1% to 6% of the gold. Because this is what we have achieved, that the mining fee should be attributed to the net metal. From EUR 600 to EUR 900 ounce is 1% the mining fee of EUR 900. At 1,800 euros, 6% of the mining fee. As the value of gold rises, too, the state's revenues rise, not proportionally, but almost exponentially. In other words, the value of the ounce rises and the percentage of the mining fee that the Greek public receives is rising. Today we have about EUR 1,400 the ounce, so 1,520, if I remember well, over EUR 1,500. So the mining fee Greece has is 4%. How much is it in other countries? Because they heard more. Argentina 3%, Brazil 1.5%, Canada up to 2%. We are talking about countries that have the same methodology. We took the mining fee to the total value, i.e. the income from the metal. There are other methodologies in Greece you get a profit share. We are not talking about a percentage of profit, about the gross margin. We're talking about the whole cigarette, so while the product does. There are no objections and doubts. Turkey 1% to 4%, South Africa - your favorite-0.5% to 5%, Chile 0.5% to 4.5%, Greece 4% today we are talking about. This is the amount of mining fees. I don't know. Is it bad? 'African country', like you said? ‘Convention of coloniality’? It's more than Canada. Canada is 2%. And to tell you the truth, I'm figuring out that sign too. It is again from the "GRANT THORNTON", for information to Greek and Greek MPs. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is an evaluation committee on the proposal for metallurgy. You also ask us for this, because there is an evaluation committee that should be in agreement. They're six members. All six members should agree. It's six regular, six extras, because it's three Greek public and three the company. Firstly, for the first time with the new amended Convention a procedure for assessing a proposal for a metallurgy is envisaged. It has so far not been in the previous contract, but the criteria for its assessment are also laid down. There were no criteria in the previous contract. In any case, the Minister for the Environment and Energy has the final word on the proposal for a metallurgy. The committee's opinion is that. He's not decisive. She'll give her opinion. Eventually, the Greek Minister will decide. Today he's from New Democracy, tomorrow he can be from another party. It will be many years, of course, we hope and believe. In addition, taking into account the experience of the past, we have come to the composition of the committee. We decided - and I mentioned it to the committee - that one of the three regular members and one of the three alternates, appointed by the Greek administration, will be representatives of the Municipality of Aristotle. The municipality will appoint one of the three members on a regular basis and one of the three alternates to participate in this committee. Does a new strategic environmental assessment study need to be carried out to amend the investment project? Oh, no. It is neither provided for by the European Directive nor by Greek legislation. It doesn't change the perimeter. Currently the perimeter of the investment project contains investment and economic planning only. There's nothing else on the table. There is also a decision of the Council of State, 1492/2013, which says that it does not affect the rules and procedures for the licensing or execution of the works and installations of the Kassandra mines. Limitation of the environmental footprint: Do we have a higher burden or a lower burden than the existing situation? We have a lower charge of 40% with the new operational plan, because according to the original design, enrichment waste from the Skouria, i.e. sifting rocks, passing water through the inside, is a natural process primarily. You're a chemist. You know much better than me what enrichment means. This waste is water. They're too humid. He's in the form of pastes. In the previous operational plan, the company's proposal and its practice, were assigned to two deposition facilities: Karaja Lakkos and Locaniko, with a total area of one thousand, six hundred and sixty acres. There was the paste, the result of the treatment, this watery, inert material. In the new way and with the dry deposition, the dry stacking that we are talking about, because moisture leaves, does not need the same volume or the same extent. Therefore, it is limited only in the area of Karaja Lakkos to an area of nine hundred forty - four acres. You don't like that either? You don't want that either? And this is worse than what we received? This reduces the occupation of natural areas by 25.6% and saves an area of three hundred and twenty-five acres. Does it need a new permit to approve environmental conditions? The new investment, the new operational plan of course, will receive renewal and modification of GDP. And he's gonna start a consultation. It's predictable very well. You've been through the Ministry, you know the ministry officials. The legal procedure will be followed. It doesn't change anything. The settlement of existing disputes, in accordance with Article 11 of the Convention, is not amnesty. We've been through it. We have not given rights to the President of the United States of America. The Minister for the Environment and Energy cannot give amnesty. He can't give amnesty and share amnesty right and left. It is only about the arrangements, the differences, as I have said, between the EUR 850 million claims made by the Greek State put forward by the company, with the out-of-courts it has sent. And what do we finally achieve? The creation of three thousand seventy direct and indirect jobs. Today we have a thousand six hundred fifty. They are more than doubled, and more than a thousand in construction work at the top of the project. There's got to be a project there. It needs to be completed and a factory built in Skouria. It would have been built, ladies and gentlemen, since 2018-2019 and would now work three thousand people, but the previous government had other ideas and another way to behave. We've heard the former Prime Minister too. He'll feed them back to legality, just like he did before. These are good signals. Good and unsatisfactory investors. You don't tell us who the good ones are, to know them, and we're not going to upset them in legality. Additional investments EUR 1.6 billion. And the EUR 900,000 in the next five years. From taxes and insurance contributions, revenues for the Greek State, 980,000,000 euros. Revenue from mining rights in the concession time EUR 260 million and EUR 85 million from income tax revenues. All of this has been evaluated. We don't see each other in our minds. We didn't make it like this one night. They have been evaluated and evaluated by the independent consultant hired by the Greek administration, who is well-known, is qualified to assess these. We've delivered them to you and you can read them. The compensatory benefits for the Municipality of Aristotle are also increased by the program of corporate social responsibility projects. Ladies and gentlemen, with this Convention, with this agreement, which we are bringing to ratification and vote by you, the Greek State has more benefits, it has more revenue. More jobs are being created and we have a lower environmental footprint. In this way, the public interest is served. That is why I call on you to consider, support and vote in favour of the ratification of this convention. I would like to say that we are not accepting the parliamentary amendment. I also owe a reply to my good colleague from the Change Movement. We have not examined the possibility of financing the Hellenic FRAMEWORK from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u485	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: "The establishment of an Investment Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Unified Anonymity Company under the name "Hellenic Chrysos Monopoly Anonymity CONTACT AND INDUSTRY CHRYS" and related provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the draft law and the vote will be taken separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote in principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u486	There has also been a request for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law by MPs of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece. of which the text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u487	I will not read the list of signatories to the two applications. In view of the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure and there is indeed one. Do you accept the two votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u488	The House agreed. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote in principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, the office and the entire bill. Make sure you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u490	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u491	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote in principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law. A total of 299 Members voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 180 Members voted. Against the background of the 'OH' principle, 119 Members voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. A total of 299 Members voted on this article. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. The first article was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 299 Members voted on Article 299. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 180 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 119 Members. The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 299 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. A total of 299 Members voted. In favour of the whole, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the whole, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority of the majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u492	Following the conclusion of the electronic roll-call vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Creating an Investment Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Unified Anonymity Company under the name ‘ELLENIC FRAMEWORK OF MONOGRAPH PROTECTION OF MATTERS AND INDUSTRIA CHRYS’ and related provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u493	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u494	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-17-S1-commons.u495	With the consent of the House at 23.50' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, March 18, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Application of the provisions of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the application of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, arrangements for the functioning of the courts and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice".
