ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-6-2021, the minutes of the PMA meeting were ratified by the Bureau, on Thursday 10 June 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Institutional framework for teleworking, provisions on public sector human resources and other emergency arrangements’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u2	Reports completed. Thank you very much, Mrs Christidou. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions that will be discussed today on Friday 11 June 2021 in the context of parliamentary scrutiny are: The question under number 854-7-2021, which will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridonas-Adoni Georgiadis. The Question No 848/7-6-2021, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. The Question under No 839/4-6-2021 and the Question No 855/7-6-2021, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. The Question No 844-7-2021 and the Question No 857-6-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Question No 837/4-6-2021, by No 845/7-6-2021, by No 5213/536-23-2021 and by No 5213/536-22-2021, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. Finally, the Question No 838/4-6-2021, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabajis. We shall begin with the first under number 854-7-2021, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, which will be discussed at the same time as the third with number 855/7-6-2021, a topical question by the President of the Council of Ministers to the Minister of Finance and both questions refer to the same subject, without, of course, affecting the rights of the speakers in terms of their speaking time, pursuant to Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, it is a common assumption that the country has made and made a great effort to relaunch the economy. The Government has decided to allocate substantial sums. Already, 27 billion has been spent since 2020, and in 2021 this support continues. It is one of the largest, as a percentage of GDP, amounts allocated to a European Union country. The result in relation to the 2020 recession was not expected and that has two causes, in my view. The first cause is the structure of our economy, which is mainly based on tourism, which has been most affected by pandemic and, of course, by all satellite companies that are moving around tourism. The second reason is that there are gaps in targeting, especially in the design of small and micro-enterprises and the self-employed, who are well or badly an important part of the Greek economy. In this sense, my question is addressed to both Ministries, so that we can see the exclusion that has so far been made from important programmes for self-employed people, but also from companies with up to one unit of work, which are mostly family enterprises, where, for alpha or beta reasons, one or two of the family members - the first degree of relatives of the entrepreneur - are legally excluded from insurance. These companies are therefore excluded from the programmes and, at the same time, are not part of a particular programme. I would like to clarify my position: the criteria for the number of workers and, of course, the turnover are important to judge a company, the reduction or the performance of an enterprise. However, the same decision should include the category of self-employed and the companies employing up to one unit per year, or there should be a second parallel programme immediately, because this exclusion, unfortunately, leads to job losses which are the self-employed. The self-employed is a job. The family worker in the family is a job. In this sense, there must be programmes aimed at this category, as I have said. And if we accept - and I accept it, because it is my belief, not because I necessarily accept it - that we have to see combinations, partnerships and networks so that all these small businesses gain greater power by means of integration and cooperation, these programmes should include this incentive, so that the relaunch that we are seeking today in our economy is - on the basis of these programmes and incentives - a targeted action that will bring businesses into a better place next day rather than worse place. So I would like to see the thoughts and answers of the two ministries and thank you for being present for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you both for your question and your protagonist on the following points: why do you recognize the obvious that Greece has one of the largest, in terms of its GDP, support programmes for the economy. In some studies - Mr President, I will shortly present one of them in the Minutes - Greece has the largest support package for the economy in relation to its GDP in the world. We are the first country in the world to support the economy in the middle of COVID. I shall present it to you, Mr Colleague, shortly in the Minutes. Besides, it's from a huge international rating house. I now come to the point. You said, Mr Colleague, that the impact on 2020 was not expected. We can disagree as much as you like about our ideological elements, but no. The performance of the Greek economy in 2020, which is minus 7.8% of GDP, according to ELSTAT's latest figures, is incredibly better than expected. I'm not saying better. I say, unbelievably better. I would remind you that Mr Varoufakis in this House said that the recession in 2020 would be less than 15%, or he would break his degree. The original forecasts of the International Monetary Fund spoke of less than 20%. The Commission's first forecasts, the so-called springs, last year, had to us as a country with the greatest recession in the European Union. I would also remind you of SYRIZA's relevant bithramical communications. And we finally came with the fourth worst recession in the Eurozone, significantly better than the last country - I do not want to say what it is, because I do not want it to appear that I am turning against a country - which eventually exceeded 11% in a recession, while we closed to 7.8%. Note that since the 7.8% recession it was 6% of tourism. So having less than 6% of tourism that was the industry most hit on the planet by the pandemic of all, the final performance of our economy in all the rest was less than 1.8%. Excuse me, if you say that disaster, we obviously don't read the same evidence. Not to mention 2021 figures. Obviously, we would have a recession in 2020 as the whole planet had a recession after the pandemic came. We didn't get to do anything else. But ultimately the yield of the Greek economy was really much better than expected. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, on the day following the announcement of the results of ELSTAT, we had a rapid reduction in the yield of Greek bonds on the financial markets, because the markets themselves understood this as positive and not as negative. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now I'm getting into the object. Just a minute. Listen. The issue of self-employed is a difficult part for the Greek economy. I am pleased that you have indirectly recognised this by referring to the need for a combination incentive. And I'm telling you that within the Recovery Fund in collaboration with the Treasury, the two ministries have set up a programme of major incentives for business integration. I would just like to remind you - and I will return to my dentext to the measures we have already taken - that 90% of the self-employed enterprises, the free professionals to whom you referred, state annual incomes consistently below EUR 10,000 and most of them below EUR 5,000 per year. As you can see, when you declare such a low income, the support measures you will receive from the state that all have the declared income as a criterion will be the same range. Because the main criterion in all the measures that we have voted on and implemented was the establishment of a tax conscience in Greece at last, so that he too can finally feel the tax-payer and do his job properly that he is not the fool of history as he felt for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Colleague, you're experienced. I also know that so far you have never given in to temptation but also to the practices of populism. I'm here to answer your question with evidence. It is not true that the Government has excluded the self-employed from the support measures it has taken. The State aid under the repayment scheme was also beneficiaries of the self-employed, i.e. companies without any worker. The purpose of the measure is to assist affected undertakings independently of industry, including small and medium-sized enterprises. I shall refer, for example, to the fourth cycle of repayable advance. The final beneficiaries were four hundred forty-seven thousand and received EUR 2.2 billion. Of these, it is estimated that a large number around the eighty thousand were businesses without any worker, i.e. self-employed who received EUR 430 million. The amounts granted through the fourth cycle as well as those granted through subsequent cycles of the repayable advance are non-refundable by 50% and the remaining 50% paid in sixty instalments, with the first instalment in January 2022, and the possibility of a single refund of 15% of the repayable amount. I note that both were self-employed and self-employed to the extent that the reduction or the full exemption was granted. I have asked the Independent Public Revenue Authority to proceed with full and accurate processing and recording of the data and I will soon be able to give you complete data with precise figures for all of this. From there on, there is a wide grid of support measures. I will refer to the special-purpose compensation scheme granted to, among other things, self-employed, small-enterprise owners, co-ownerships of social civil law or inherited speculative law under conditions which did not employ workers. This compensation was granted for the first time directly and electronically to the beneficiaries. This action, totalling EUR 550 million, was designed, implemented and paid to the beneficiaries in four consecutive cycles in 2020. This included most categories of self-employed, even taxi owners. I am also referring to the scheme of increased special-purpose compensation, which was introduced for April and payments to beneficiaries are in progress. I shall refer in detail to other measures that have been implemented to support self-employed people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u8	All right, I see the whole of Heraklion is here today in plenary. That's good. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, I will insist. We agree that our country has spent the largest amount of GDP on dealing with pandemic. The Minister added that it is the largest not only in Europe but also in the world. Of course, the evidence is not disputed and no one can question them. However, I made the point that the recession in our country in 2020 was 32% higher than the European Union average and I said that this has two causes, one is the economic structure and the other is that there are problems in planning, targeting and priorities. But what is the problem, again in the structure of the economy in relation to targeting? The large proportion of self-employed and micro-enterprises, in the Greek sense, under a unit of work - because, in the European Union, they are under ten workers, I now speak of the self-employed and a worker or a self-employed person and two, with a semi-employment - is not the government's priority to supporting them, and that for us, for Greece, is a minority. The European Union does not exclude them, as is sometimes the case on the part of the government. I have here the recommendation from the European Commission, which sets ceilings, but does not put it below. Clearly, the European Commission says that the number of workers must be a criterion, but it does not say anywhere that the self-employed person who is a job must not rely in a particular way. So if we agree on this general point, what I ask you to do is to restore the programmes that have been excluded so far. I should like to mention in particular - not to speak in general terms now - in most of the cases, either financed by the budget or by the ESDP, regional programmes, for example, which have had another problem with the regions. Almost everything - and I will say what I mean by 'nearly' - self-employed and micro-enterprises are excluded. In addition to the Attica region, which, with its implementation structure, had professional means. The tourism programme, announced the other day - do not go far - of 420 million, says that over an annual work unit, which means over one employee or over two, third with part-time work. The current returnee, Minister, of the Ministry of Finance doesn't have them inside. The current returner doesn't have them in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u10	The returner's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u11	The last of May I mean, running until May. The freezing subsidy? One who has a worker or two, that is a company next to a worker or two, but who is from the family, and who doesn't insure them why the law allows it, these two why shouldn't have the same support from the state? In this sense I identify the problem and - will I, of course, submit all these documents and papers showing the problem and proving what I'm saying - what I ask of what it is? Either the programmes are distinct from the category of self-employed and those under one unit of work which is supported in the same way - clearly those who have more workers are being strengthened above - or there is a different programme. And in any case, when the Recovery Fund comes, which you rightly said should include means of cooperation, networking, partnership, association, companies to join together, because if they have died, the relevant Recovery Fund will not have the object. In this sense, I think you can also get in every invitation from the self-employed and those who employ one, two, as long as it is done in the prospect of joining either another like company or the same for the next day with one or two employees. It is foreign to me the words 'destruct' that you have said. I guess you were talking about somewhere else, I didn't say there was a disaster. I said that there is an important problem in a particular category of businesses which I identify and propose, and how it can be cured. If we do not do that now that it is the start of an effort in the difficult conditions that exist when the Recovery Fund comes, I say again, there will be no such business to unite. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u13	First of all, Mr President, I am tabling the report published by ING: "First world Greece in support of the economy". I'm telling you because I saw you ironed out a while ago. I am presenting the report in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] One cannot question the size and validity of ING. I say this so that we do not conflict with self-evident things that are proved by a simple reading of numbers. I now go to the point, Mr Kegeroglu, in which I admit I want to be with you very honest. You are detecting a real problem, which, however, also has a backward vision. I'll get you an example. We from the Ministry of Development from the ESDP programme provided EUR 420 million last year to get EUR 800 from all free professionals and self-employed small businesses. I imagine you need to know the program, the great eights. When nine out of ten say below EUR 10,000, 800 euros, do you know how much it is in their annual income? Ten percent. Do you know how much the aid, for example, is that we give to the hotels you mentioned? 5%. So if you get their declared income in proportion, the money they have received from both the repayable advance 4 and the NRV is over 20% of the revenue they report. So, I ask: do you want to go and tell a special category of Greeks you deserve 50% of your income, 60% while others deserve 10%? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u14	You do not take into account biopoliticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u15	I'm telling you again about biopoliticism: Listen now because you're a serious man. When one declares an income of 5,000 euros, this states to the state, how is it biopollutant? Tell me about it. I repeat that you are a serious politician and we must have a serious debate. We in all our measures - I say this again - have the most basic criterion in all my political decisions in the middle of a pandemic was to make money for those who declared money on the tax, those who declared income. Because the measures of COVID were also used as measures to build tax awareness at last in Greece. For once in Greece, those who pay taxes and declare incomes and pay insurance contributions must feel that the state is next to them and not that the state is only going to help others. I therefore tell you that the support for self-employed and individual businesses is not less than the support received by the other companies in Greece. I can tell you he might be ahead of you. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] With regard to the ESRB programmes for the focus and tourism you mentioned, I have explained it many times. In my negotiations with the European Commission for the establishment of these programmes, we also wanted it, but the European Commission also demanded it to be the units of work, because this money is not spent on the biopolitics of businesses. This money is given to support jobs. That's the justification we get from the NRP. So if you don't have jobs to offer the system, you can't get that money. That's the problem. I repeat that the great debate is to move to a structure of a Greek economy differently. I, Mr Kegeroglu - and I am closing with this - have been a businessman myself with one, two employees. I have been a member of your group for years, of the extremely small businesses. They are not the small businesses that do not exist for the European regulation, they are companies that do not actually exist in European logic. It's a Greek phenomenon. Perhaps there are also in Italy. They're extremely small businesses. But having this structure of the economy - which was mine, I am not saying it against these people, and I am one of them - in the modern economy they cannot function competitively. We need to find out how to help these people make larger business shapes so that they have easier access to finance, have greater transparency in their finances and produce competitive services and products that can survive in the modern structure of the global economy. And that's our big bet for the next period. I can assure you that this great bet we take it very seriously into account in the policies that we are planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u16	The State Secretary, Mr Vessiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, for restoring the truth, from the measure of repayable advances in all seven cycles of this measure, no one and any undertaking were excluded. The beneficiaries of the measure were also self-employed and individual enterprises, without any worker. The measure was subject to a turnover drop, i.e. a comparison of the revenues of 2019 with the revenues of 2020, the time within the pandemic. It was an objective and fair criterion, as the Minister for Agriculture explained earlier. Probably because all the business support measures were a lot and continue, you'd be confused. You will probably mean the measure to support the grant of fixed costs. And in fact, this is what the company needs to have from a worker on top of it. Colleague, in very difficult circumstances, the government took advantage of the last available euro to keep the economy alive. In this context, actions were also implemented which had as their beneficiaries self-employed. I would mention some of them to you: First, the suspension of the payment of VAT and established debts to the tax office and the insurance funds. Extension of the above instalment deadline to tax administration until 31 December 2021. Secondly, the provision of a 25% discount for the payment of certified legal debts and also of natural persons, including self-employed persons. Third, an increase in the number of instalments for the reimbursement of income tax and HNPI, as well as an extension of the deadline for the submission of tax declarations for natural persons by 27 August. Fourthly, the suspension of the obligation to pay the trade fee for two categories of self-employed persons who have been critically affected by the pandemic, such as farmers of the normal regime and coastal fishermen, on conditionality. Fifthly, a new framework for debt arrangements and the possibility of reintegration for those who were unable to respond to the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments or the extrajudicial mechanism. All of them are revivaling this arrangement with all its benefits, such as decommitment of bank accounts, giving them the opportunity to re-enter it. Sixth, a reduction in the initial tax rate from 22% to 9% for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 for all natural persons, namely employees, pensioners, self-employed persons, individual businesses and farmers. Seventh, a reduction in the advance payment of business income tax for natural persons from 100% to 55% on a permanent basis from the 2020 tax year. Eighthly, the GFCF programme for the repayment of loans to affected borrowers also concerns self-employed persons. Ninth, the solidarity levy is suspended for both the tax year 2021 for all natural persons' income, with the exception of income from employed work in the public sector and pensions. Private employees, business people, property owners and farmers benefit. For the tax year 2022, income from private sector wages is exempted from the special solidarity levy. They are also taken from the beginning of the pandemic successive measures to suspend the payment of cheques, but also to reduce the full exemption from the obligation to pay rents. As far as possible, the government will continue to take steps to support all the social professional groups that have proved to be affected by the pandemic. Everyone, I imagine, is aware that resources are not unlimited, as they all recognise that the government has supported the real economy, the self-employed, the businesses and the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Mr. Besiropoulos, because Mr. Mamoulakis is the rapporteur in a committee, he contacted Mr. Loyadis to take the lead. Do you have time? It's not a matter of patience, it's if you have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u19	I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u20	Good. Will the first Question be debated under number 848/7-6-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hare) Mamoulakis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Is the 110m euros of the project Greece 2.0 enough for flooding projects in Crete, western Greece, Peloponnese and Central Macedonia?" Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to thank the Minister for his facilitation. Minister, on 31 March 2021 the Greek Government presented the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0", which consists of four main priorities: "green" transition, digital transformation, employment, skills, social cohesion and private investment and the transformation of the economy. In order to implement the plan, you requested all the resources that can be received under the Recovery Fund, i.e. 18.19 billion subsidies and 12.78 billion loans. The Deputy Minister of Finance in his speech in presenting the National Plan on the ‘green’ transition said that it included, among other things, actions and resources for investments in flooding projects. Of course, the figures do not verify these statements. In particular, for axis 1.4 ‘Sustainable use of resources, resistance to climate change and biodiversity conservation’ of the first pillar of the ‘green’ transition, the amount corresponding to anti-milling projects reaches EUR 110 million. I can see from the brief description of the investment in question that the EUR 110 million will be allocated not only to the risk reduction projects of flooding phenomena, but also to irrigation and reinforcement of the existing network, if you like, for irrigation of areas which are indeed masturbated and which have huge issues, even quasi-unification projects. Let us stress here that in our country the forecasts of specialists and scientists speak for a period of time in the coming years which 30% of the prevailing will be affected by issues relating to desertification and, more generally, the lack of serious water resources. It is therefore extremely questionable whether this amount of EUR 110 million can shield the areas already affected and in future even more, such as Crete, Western Greece, the Peloponnese and Central Macedonia. I would also like to mention that, based on what the scientific community expresses on climate change, the consequences are heterogeneous, multifactorial and we need to see them in a much more serious light, in our view, because the EUR 110 million on the overall Recovery Fund does not exceed 0.3%-0.4% of the total budget. I therefore believe that the extent to which we take part in this matter is also dependent on the resources available to us for the actions in question. So there is a small to small, I would say, support to this issue. Now, anti-military planning - by closing and putting the question - is always being raised in depth over the years with regard to climate change. As far as investment is concerned, I would just like to mention, for example, in order to understand your opposition, your answer to a recent question to you about the Heraklion Regional Unit. You mentioned to me in my question what actions are to be taken or planned, the existing EUR 233,47 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Mamulaki, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u23	So I am going straight to the question, because the President is also coming. So there is a contrast here: Firstly, with what criterion has the EUR 110 million amount divided for the flooding projects in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and, secondly - and most importantly, is this amount considered sufficient to cover the flooding needs of Crete, Western Greece, the Peloponnese and central Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u24	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. You have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, thank you. I think, Mr President, that in your question you are confusing two things and I will prove to you why your numbers do not exactly correspond to reality. The flooding projects necessary to be implemented and the amounts to be provided by the financial instrument of the Recovery Fund are one. As you know, the Recovery Fund is a plan proposed by the Prime Minister two months ago. It's approved. In fact, at the last visit of Mrs Westager's Executive Vice-President, we have congratulated her on this project, and we are from the first countries we have made our proposals too early. We are talking about an overall plan that will reach 57 billion. As far as anti-military armour is concerned, we in the Ministry have made a comprehensive plan, using not only the Recovery Fund, but all the financial instruments we have. According to this plan from the Recovery Fund, projects that are already environmentally licensed will be financed. Why are we doing this? For the simple reason - you will know and should perhaps also inform the House and those who are listening to us - that there is an extremely tight timetable in the Recovery Fund with specific milestones. So to have an image of what we have done over the past twenty-two months, I will tell you that we have already entrusted anti-military protection projects to the large motorways of EUR 350 million, which was initiated by your own government, but it has not yet been completed because it has not even had any ready studies. The first studies have been submitted to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, and we have already approved another 250 million by the Interministerial Committee of Great Works and will be entrusted very quickly. At the same time, note that we have added 430 million from the European Investment Bank, the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and the ESRB. So 350 and 250 are 700, and with 430 we go to 1.130, without the Recovery Fund. And these projects I'm telling you, which have been financed by the European Investment Bank, by the ESRB and by the CEB, are money going to the regions and concern seven - eight specific projects in Attica, Thessaloniki and Corinthia. At the same time, we continue negotiations with these banks to extend this financial instrument and to be able to obtain funding for other flooding projects. Now we're going to the Recovery Fund. In our programme, therefore, it is not EUR 115 million, as you say, but EUR 233 million and all that I have said to you, Mr President, it sums up counter-flood protection projects from the largest in the European Union, especially if you compare similar countries, around EUR 1.5 billion. In the Recovery Fund, therefore, you have seen the works of a sub-axle, '1, '1,4' as you mentioned in your question, and we have in fact included other sub-axles, such as water resources management. So you ask me if the EUR 110 million of the Recovery Fund is enough. First of all, I would like to say that in the Recovery Fund, the specific funds allocated are not EUR 110 million, but EUR 233 million, and I can also give you the table to see it in detail and, secondly, that the total amount of the Counterfeit Protection Programme, as I mentioned, is not either EUR 110 million or EUR 233 million, but more than EUR 1.5 billion. So we use - what tools? - loans, PPPs, concessions, PPPs, Recovery Fund to compose the sum of EUR 1.5 billion - in fact it is a EUR 1.460 billion - anti-military projects that we are in great need, because we all know, as you quite rightly said, that climate change has brought the top - down not only in our country but throughout Europe as well. In my dentistry, I will explain to you - if you will - the latest developments in the European Union regarding the financing of these projects and the prioritisation they take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u26	Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, to agree that we are all on the same side of the river on the issues of climate crisis or criminal change. Now, because I heard some issues, I was really surprised that you admitted that resources were committed, that the studies were not matured, that we did not catch up, but that we committed resources, which shows the previous government's political choice for the country's flooding shield. However, I have listened very carefully to the quote that you made, a quote, in fact, had been an attempt to approach a sum of EUR 1.1 billion with various heterogeneous resources linked to each other. But even in this case, if you notice, there is a deepest heterosexuality in how you themselves are involved in the problem of anti-military armour. And why am I saying that? Because you are incorporating the issue of the major road corridors, which we must of course see. After all, we have the example of Crete, Heraklion, eight months ago with the flooding phenomena that we experienced and I am passing away, yet the inhabitants of these regions have still not been compensated. These are issues relating to the development of roads, the construction of roads and, in particular, a section of the Northern Road Axis in the previous years, which has had the consequences we know. So, obviously, roads must be properly shielded, but it is not possible almost half of this amount that you mentioned to me about road projects and their flooding armour when in Crete, in western Greece, in the Peloponnese, in central Macedonia we have areas that have enormous needs. Because mathematics are relentless and stubborn, Mr President, many times, I set the example of the resources of the EUR 110 million axis, that is, 0.3% of the total budget, to show what? To show how the government, through its plan for the Recovery Fund, is based, certainly not on this axis, I understand, even if I add, of course, and do not blind - and the resources you have presented and you are trying to show the willingness to strengthen this action and this effort for the flooding phenomena, as well as in general the strengthening of the water-saving horizon, which is so important for our country and especially in the face of the threat of desertification. But here, there is the question: First of all, about the Recovery Fund to say that you have not consulted anyone. Where's the local government? Where's the scientific community? Where are university bodies? There was nothing. Besides, there are also a number of questions or - if you wish - objections from these bodies, from the social partners, who have not been heard, there has been no public consultation, despite the fact that since the summer of 2020 you have had the prior approval for this plan on resources. So the structural deficit of public consultation on the issue of the Recovery Fund is, I think, a key and political issue with other dimensions. What I would like to close, Minister, I think it is important that it is also very critical to be at the heart of the efforts for the next day, because I repeat on the issue of climate change we are all together and we should all be together, not only for us, but also for our children and for the next generations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what I would like to end with is one, in my view: it is the necessary outline planning, Minister, and this should be our basic axis - where local problems must have been intensified, because there is a peculiarity and a 'peripherality' per region. This knowledge is taken, it is mutated only by fermentation by the very bodies they know, by the praisers of the object. And that is what I would like to see, and that is what I would expect from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u28	Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get things back together. First I'll agree with you. But it is good not to agree on the words, but to see what we are doing in practice. You know, politics is also a benchmark, what the previous government did, what this government did and citizens decide. In the European Union, Mr President, on environmental issues, the privilege of sensitivity usually had it not the right parties, not the People's Party, but the left parties. I have here and Mr Amyras who is aware of these issues. So here, when you were a government, you did not plan any, but no flooding. After the events of Mandra you have been raped - quite rightly - and in fact you have entrusted 350 million to the motorways, to the concessionaires to do anti-military protection work, what we call 'Antwerp and downstream'. Did that happen? When did the floods of Mandra become? You didn't even start the studies. I therefore recognise that a first step has been taken, but you will allow me to say that this was not even enough. Secondly, connect the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund, as I told you before and as Mr Skeylakakis and the Prime Minister have said, has a very strict timetable to finance projects that are around a hundred seventy. And not only are projects related to infrastructure, but also with reforms and other investments. So the number you're referring to, the 110 million, it's not accurate. I told you it was over 110 million, it's 230 million. Because you have 'forgot' - within introductory words - to put on other projects relating to both the dams and the management of water resources which, in our view, and I think you will agree, are mostly converging. Now let's go to what we did. Studies of 350 million were developed, while the Interministerial Committee has set up 250 million more. With the European financial instruments we have taken from the EIB, as I have told you, and other money, about 430 million, so that we can help the regions with severe flooding phenomena to manage them and to auction these projects as soon as possible. We also have and are taking advantage of 233 million and the Recovery Fund for projects directly linked to the management of water resources. So I'm gonna close up with what I said starting. In 2015-2019 the anti-military protection projects were minimal, not more than 100-200 million. After Mandra, the state mechanism "wakes up" and we all understand that climate change and flooding phenomena are very strong. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy has launched projects of EUR 1.5 billion, for which we have received the European Commission, at the last Council of Transport and Infrastructure Ministers. Because we must all understand - and I close with that, Mr President - that from now on works will not only relate to roads. We must overcome the old generation projects and see the new generation projects, which are the anti-military projects, which are the railways, that is, they have an environmentally proactive mark if we really want Europe to achieve the extremely difficult and ambitious goals by 2050, so that there can be a climate balance. So here we are not talking in words, we are talking in actions. Firstly, we are not talking about 110 million, but anti-military projects of 1.5 billion. Secondly, these projects are not air words, but specifically projects that have guaranteed funding, which is very important to any politicians when they want to speak with concrete elements. And I think that the evidence I gave you was overwhelming to show you the seriousness with which we are dealing with the phenomenon of climate change. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mamulaki, you must run to prevent your commission. We will now discuss the second question with number 839/4-6-2021 in the second question of the second question by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Leaving of Real Estate in the Municipality of Heraklion". Here, Mr. Loyade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, let me say that it is my honour today to be the voice of my municipality, Heraklion. ETAD SA, a Real Estate Company, was established under colonial law 4389/2016, ADI was established following previous Memorandum No 4093/2012. Soon I will mention what the ADP is. It's the Independent Public Income Authority. Article 1 shall constitute an Independent Authority without legal personality. Article 1(2) states that the authority enjoys operational independence, administrative and financial autonomy and is not subject to supervision or supervision by governmental bodies, state bodies or other administrative authorities. Finally, Article 5 of the same law and paragraph 1 states that the authority is not subject to hierarchical control or supervision by the Minister of Finance. I would say that it is the "Highest Administration Authority of Greece". All public property has therefore been transferred and bound by the institutions and troika for nine nine years by the Memorandum Laws and the Memorandum Governments of PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA. We are talking about ports, airports, energy, water, public land. As MERA25, we are the only ones who are entitled to demand and demand that the public property be recovered from the institutions, which is protected by the Greek State. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I come to the object today. Therefore, after the properties of the former American base of Gournon, the Venetian port, the port of Heraklion, the properties of the neighbouring municipality of Gazios, has now put in the eye the properties of the historic city centre of Heraklion. These properties have been closed for twelve years after the relocation of their services to other places and for twelve years their abandonment has brought their total lack of maintenance and made them in a very bad situation, which damages the image of the city. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Municipality of Heraklion, in its attempt to highlight and promote its rich cultural heritage, has been requested since 2012 - to highlight this - and then repeatedly, to grant the use of these buildings, a request supported by unanimous decisions of 2018 and 2019 of the Heraklion Municipal Council. In these properties, the Municipality of Heraklion plans to house the exhibition of the Municipality of Heraklion of the remembrances of the National Resistance 1941-1945 and those responsible for the exhibition of Departments of Culture of the Municipality and the other building to house periodic exhibitions of local artists and part of the municipal art collection that is currently hosted in Vikella Municipal Library and occupying over there as no need. So I would like to ask you, Minister, that the above properties will be granted without consideration to the Municipality of Heraklion, who will take over their renovation and maintenance in a reasonable time, so that they can be properly exploited? What is the role of the EBRD and why is it constantly ignoring the positions of the hereditaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Besiropoulos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I had replied a long time ago on this matter to a timely question he had tabled by a colleague from SYRIZA. I therefore come back with today's data, demonstrating the requisite respect for the institution of parliamentary control. In your question you refer to two properties that have been untapped for years. This is the building of the former Police Department in Caligon Square - the square most known as Lions - for the building that was housed at Major Jullakis Street. As I have said before, precious time has been lost, since the procedures for granting them to self-government have not gone ahead. I do not think, however, that the quest for responsibilities for the past will give us something in the debate. I am also aware of what you are saying, that the Municipality of Heraklion with its document to the administration of ETAD again requested on 17 January 2020 the concession of these two real estates for the purpose of housing the interactive collection of the municipality of 1941-1945 of the offices responsible for the exhibition of parts of the culture department and of the periodic exhibitions of artists. What they are all aware of is that, with the creation of the Supreme Council, the framework for public property has changed completely. These two buildings belong to the EBRD, which informed us that it plans to exploit them, even pointing out that there is an investment interest. With full respect for the demand for self-government, we must note that the EBRD is a subsidiary of the Supreme Council and operates autonomously. I am sure that those who know the content and the law of the Supreme Court and, above all, those who bound the country by their signature, binding public property, are aware of what the reality is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Logiadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it should be noted that the EBRD, in a close interpretation of the provisions of its statute, denied these concessions, although permitted by its leasing regulation and proceeded to call for expressions of interest for the provision of these properties to a private investor in order to achieve their optimal economic exploitation. The EBRD shall have the right to grant to the municipality on the basis of its municipal property statute, for public use, for cultural purposes and for the service uses of the municipality. The Municipality of Heraklion is now the third largest municipality in Greece. The EBRD has done the contract without having an economic study on these properties, which I would stress is in the historic center of Heraklion, as you mentioned, next to Cretan Morosine in the Lions. It's one of the most contagious parts of Heraklion. It's like the Syntagma Square, but Krini, Caligon Square, the lions, as we say in Heraklion, are even older square of Syntagma Square, more historic. Imagine, then, a private person taking these and doing that over there beyond what he would like. The Municipality of Heraklion, on the other hand, has given the State in the center of Heraklion to a large building where local services are housed today - Town and others - a floor for the Appeals Court of Heraklion. The Municipality of Heraklion has also granted to the public the plot where Heraklion Police Palace has been erected and operates today in the context of good co-operation between the municipality and the public. The Municipality of Heraklion, as I said, is constantly growing and has more and more needs. So two are the issues in these buildings: One is the Archaeological Service because it is involved in the historic centre of Heraklion, and the other is the services that have been relocated from these buildings, as you said, outside Heraklion. The citizen - and the Greek and also the foreigner, the tourist - because the Police, Trochaia, the Tourist Police have gone outside Heraklion, asks for some office, some space, a service for direct contact. We are, of course, opposed to the fact that all these properties may have been sold, sold, sold "photographics" to specific interests, as is done every time by divesting public property, because as you said before, Minister, ETAD informed you and operated autonomously, as the law says. And because it can be said again that it is all the fault of Varoufakis, we as Mera25 again say: Bring the bankruptcy file to the House, the Prime Minister will come, and we can open it and discuss it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, the supposedly proud negotiation of the first half of 2015 led to the assignment of all public real estate to the Supreme Court, which could not have been accepted by another government. The deceitful and especially improvisations were paid very expensively. I have to refer to the law on the establishment of the Supreme Court, Law No.4389/2016, a law passed by the then parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANEL and led to the mortgage of all the public property for ninety years. Article 196(4) of the Act states that the ownership and the predominance of all the real estate assets of the Greek State in EBRD, with the exception of sanctuary, beaches, offshore areas, water land, areas of RAMSAR and NATURA, archaeological sites, purely forest land and others. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] However, paragraph 5 of the same Article 196 states that even the properties exempted from the transfer remain in the possession of the Greek State, but they are under the control of the Supreme Court, which is responsible for their management. This law stipulates that the EBRD is now a subsidiary of the Supreme Court. And in order for the EBRD to retransfer any property to the Greek State, the signature of the Supervisory Board is required, in accordance with Articles 196 and paragraph 10 thereof. The Supervisory Board, which runs the Supreme Court, consists of five members, three of which are chosen by the Greek State, while the other two - including the President - are chosen by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism. In order to take a decision, however, there must be a vote in favour of the four of the five members. This means that, in order for a relocation of property to take place in the public sector, the three votes of the equal members chosen by the Greek State are not enough but at least one of the other two members agreed to be appointed to the Supreme Court by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism. This also applies to the transfer of real estate. The EBRD can, of course, grant a real estate transfer in exchange for or without a conditional sale to a private or self-government. It operates autonomously and independently as a subsidiary of the Supreme Court. Things would be different only if this law, n.4389/2016, with which the entire public real estate of the State was passed in the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with the number 838/4-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “The positions of beekeeping associations, cooperatives, the National Interbranch Organisation of honey and the Hellenic Beekeeping Society in the decision on the functioning of the “National Electronic Apiculture Register””. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Lightning Arabaji. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, 17 April was published in Ministerial Decision 106613/2021, which lays down procedures for the development, organisation and operation of a national electronic beekeeping register. This decision was not taken into account by the vast majority of the directly apiculture associations concerned, who are making their reactions public. I shall submit for the minutes the complaints they make in their letter to you. Specifically, they identify a non-conformity between the registry and the European Union Regulation of 1366 regarding the definition of the hive and the time of registration of cells. They shall identify a non-conformity with the application of Regulation 852 of the European Union. They also identify: Alert articles in the register. Substantial failures of Article paragraphs. Acquisition of the beekeeper's rights, which are suddenly called 'private privileges' and threaten to be abolished for various reasons. Personal data of the beekeeper exposed and being a source of investigations, discussions and checks by unauthorised bodies. We also see the state demanding the beekeeper's personal data and describing a number of state-owned and non-governmental organisations that have access to this data, unacceptable bureaucratic procedures in conjunction with the threatened sanctions for deprivation of acquired rights, now called the beekeeper's 'private', an obligation to state a change within 15 days, which is practically inapplicable, since the increase in bee is gradually taking place in the course of the year, a restriction on the number of abatements that the beekeeper can arrest in one year, which is incomprehensible and unrealistic. The IOCC should make a reasoned acceptance of the beekeeper's documentation to increase its bees by 50% to 100%. Sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the registration provisions shall be exhaustive to the beekeeper. There is no mention of the costs of extremist controls and movements of IOC staff. In common, Madam Secretary, it is something that has been done at best. You need to get it back, you need to put it in real consultation with the operators. Read their detailed remarks, as I present them to you, and the conclusions of the 3rd Pan-Hellenic Conference of Professional Apiculture 2019, which says what the problems are today in apiculture and what you should do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u40	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, first of all I would like to thank you for your question, because it enables us to demonstrate here and at the National Representation that the question focuses on the vote on a large picture. What is the big picture, Mr. Colleague? It is that for the first time there has been a government that has proved in practice that it wants to fully map what has to do with the agri-food sector, especially the beekeepers, who, as you will know, were uncharted waters in order to strike unfair practices and to do the declared will to deal with the Greekisations. And when I say 'in practice', I would remind you that a few days ago it was announced for the first time after so many years, after the relevant Irregularities Committee met at the Ministry, a very high fine on the basis of the relevant Ministerial Decision, which concerned a company that falsified our national product, feta. So all this shows that this government, this political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, wants to put order on the ground. The apiculture register, Mr Colleague, is a structural change of historical importance, and the 'historical importance' is not what I call it, the responsible ones say. I would remind you that the beekeeping register was passed in accordance with Article 9 of Law No.4691/2020, where the national interprofessional honey said "Alternates in a bill of the Ministry of Rural Development mentions beekeeping." I would like to refer to sanctions. Finally, there is a tightening up and registration of sanctions, which are necessary to curb Greekisations. Federation of Beekeeper Associations of Greece, from the hearing of bodies: "We thank the Minister for implementing a permanent request since 2011. His absence costs beekeepers money, etc.’ And they continue with their remarks: 'We want information on the electronic register'. There is. ‘All beekeepers in a reasonable time to inform with responsible statement of the current situation.’ There is. ‘Obligation to declare for each change where it exceeds 10%’. There is. ‘Signments on those who do not declare the changes, penalties on those who do not declare their bees.’ So, at first, Mr. Colleague, don't see the tree, see the forest. This political leadership is in open consultation with apiculture bodies in this regard. We have open ears and eyes, and if something politically and scientifically justified for optimisation we are not dogmatic, Mr Colleague. You also know very well - and I am closing down with that in my prototype - that consultation is imposed on the adoption of a bill. In the case of ministerial decisions and other regulatory acts, consultation is not provided for. Nevertheless, because we considered and consider the views of the beekeepers to be of major importance, we before we adopted the ministerial decision and after the adoption of the law, where the bodies said what I read to you a moment ago, we sent to give us opinions to the National Interbranch Organisation of honey, the Federation of Beekeeping Associations of Greece, to the forty-six registered beekeeping associations of the country and to the seventeen apiculture centres by saying that we are in the final phase of submitting a ministerial decision, please a lot for your views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I look at the forest and see the forest of apiculture organisations that are currently denouncing the ministerial decision. You said you asked for the opinion of the National Interbranch Organisation of Honey. What I read to you is her opinion. I didn't think of anything myself, I just compacted the document, which has been sent to you. And what are they asking for? You are invited to withdraw this decision immediately and to put it into public consultation any text as a final text so that the work can be done properly. At the moment, in practice, small producers again, in areas where cells are actually smaller, are punished by exclusion from the beekeeper's profession. Questions are: On what criteria have these changes been made, since they do not serve beekeepers? How do you speak of privileges when you refer to acquired rights threatened by new sanctions? With what claim can the beekeeper be threatened to be deprived of one or three years, why did he not have time to declare an increase in bee? How do you help a small producer to sell its products when they run counter to the application of European Regulation 852/2004? How is it right to record when the beekeeper can only declare five, and in fact a professional beekeeper with a hundred and twenty bees will certainly have more than thirty, which will ultimately end up being undeclared and hidden due to fear of sanctions, so there will be an increase in false statements. What is the purpose of this ministerial decision, as long as it hampers the beekeeper even in the correct statement of the number of bees? And there are even harder questions. How will measures be implemented in the ‘ARTEMIS’ project for honey standardisation companies for non-compliance? If large and well-known companies find their honey samples incompatible with the concentration of hcmfs, with the content of gerenoccus, with the incorrect botanical and geographical origin, will analogous fine be imposed with deprivation of the VDM, closure of a manufacturing plant - standardisation, ban on the purchase and disposal of products, cut-off of financing, bank loans, advertising and all other privileges they have for one to two years? To say what would be the equal treatment of small and large people. We, as Mera25 - and I close with this - are calling for the creation of a brand of Greek honey, with the control and certification of the highest quality of Greek honey, tax exemptions and subsidies to young beekeepers, aid for the purchase of special beekeeping vehicles at difficult points and in biological areas, so as to develop the ecosystem in the best possible way, a control body of honey quality throughout the European Union. We call for beekeeping to be included equally as a sector of agricultural production and in the new CAP, and, of course, after seventeen years, for the CSR to be issued in 2003 after consultation with the operators. I have submitted to you and the conclusions of the conference, what is needed at the moment for the beekeeping and criticism of the large associations, the National Interbranch Organisation of honey, to see and withdraw the government's decision and put it into consultation at zero, to hear what the beekeepers need in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u44	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you have put too many issues outside the question in your dentistry. I am delighted to invite you here, too, to come to the Ministry to discuss the issues you are putting on the table. However, the questions which concern them and which, as you have described them, are one of them. You say, Mr President, that the small producers are punished by the ministerial decision. Yes, sir. Meaning? Why are they punished and what is the punishment? That they cannot sell their products on the people's markets, that they cannot be beneficiaries of the Rural Development Programme. Yes, sir. Until now, before the ministerial decision comes out, beekeepers had to hold at least 10 hives and be registered, have an apiculture register in force. What about the ministerial decision? Ten is made five, so obviously the small beekeepers are favoured and those who had a beekeeping book in force, from 1-1-2018, are automatically registered in the National Electronic Apiculture Register. So what acquired rights are affected, Mr. Comrade? On the contrary, I would say that their rights are identified. They are supported, not affected. You're saying it's unlike 852. But how is it contrary to 852, Mr. Comrade? How is she in contrast? Pursuant to 852 on food hygiene, a ministerial decision was adopted on 24-1-2019 by the previous government on the direct supply of small quantities of honey from the producer to the final consumer. In particular, Article 3 of that Decision states that beekeepers must have an active beekeeping booklet. So this booklet we automatically put it in the National Electronics Register, which is in full agreement with the regulation and the previous legislative framework. My colleague, with the National Electronic Beekeeping Register for the first time the beekeepers declare us and are obliged to declare all the quantities produced, declare the processors to whom they deliver it or can do it completely digitalally, without coming to the relevant DAGs, and the state mechanism, as you can see, in modern times. The apiculture register is the necessary link, the first step, in proportion to the "ARTEMIS" system, which will be implemented by our Ministry in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance - this has already begun to work - so that we also have in the apiculture sector honey balances, so that we know that honey leaving the hive is fully recorded, what ultimately results in the consumer, for reasons of public interest, protection of consumers' health and, of course, the abolition of unfair practices. These honey balances, Mr Colleague, are the necessary step for the Greek mark in honey, which I am passing away will be part of an umbrella of the Greek mark, which we also update and form. You also said in your question that "whoever will pay, who will bear the cost of the excellence checks" we have put in. Can we agree on something in this Chamber? Do we want checks on the maintenance of legality? Do we need tests for observance of well-being? Are we on the side of beekeepers and any self-employed or entrepreneur who is consistent and legitimate? Obviously, we are. Therefore, this cost will be borne by the State mechanism through its state officials within the framework of their responsibilities. That is self-evident, Mr President. You've asked a lot of questions. I shall now reply to you on the limitation of the abstentions. Now, of course, those who are not experts may not understand us. Devotion is a way of multiplying bees. Until first, Mr Colleague, until this ministerial decision, which you are asking us by way of the question and from here the Step forward to withdraw it as a ministry, was not allowed to increase the beekeeping capital by means of the abbreviations. What happened in practice? Since the officials of the DAGs, the agronomists, knew that this was a beekeeper, some were allowed to beekeepers. Some, however, did not allow it. In other words, it was at the discretion of the administration's interpretation. So the state comes, the ministerial decision that I sign and says that the multiplication with the abdomen is legitimate. In the dialogue, which I repeat, we have open and will also have open with the beekeeping community, if it is decided that this number of defects is small, we are here to optimise it at all times in the interests of beekeepers and of course in the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u46	Finish, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. Look at the big picture, Mr. Comrade. Our beekeepers have suffered, like many branches of the primary sector and not just the consequences of the pandemic crisis, a loss of income. The fact, Mr President, that this productive sector was uncharted created many problems in order to objectively address the damage, the loss of income that they have actually suffered in order to substantiate and provide the European Commission with the relevant funds with the Temporary Framework for State aid. We map, object, clean up a workforce, which we have at the front of our agenda at the Ministry of Rural Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u48	We now come to three topical questions for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which Mr Amyras will answer. We will begin with the second with number 837/4-2021 topical question of the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Implementation of government planning for substituting the air cables of the TEDO". Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Excuse me, but I have said for two months that, in every speech of mine in the House before I begin my point of order, I will make a reference for twenty seconds to the need to complete the procedures for detecting the way our former Minister and colleague have died for many years. There are evidences that Shefis Valyrakis was murdered and the case is still at the rampage of the preliminary exam. These things must come to the end. Minister, after "Medea" and following the government's declarations to subjugate the cables, I took responsibility for my constituency, but also for those corners of the country that have a problem with PPC's cables to control the course of implementation of government promises to subjugate PPC's cables. At the same time - the weeks were going through - there was also the very big and dangerous thing now in the summer the issue of not collecting the broken branches, which was the result of the very heavy disaster in January, February. We have had an appropriate debate with Mr Skreka, we have also had a debate together, and for the third time I bring this issue to the House, and I will bring it every month until it is clear how things are going and where we are. I conclude my speech to hear your answer and in my dentistry I will say what I have recorded so far. We don't generally speak vaguely, though. We are talking about what has been done in connection with the elimination of every fire outbreak of broken and concentrated branches and, above all, we are talking about your topic, about substituting the cables as you have announced, with the priorities, first and foremost in the areas that are rich in green, but are areas of residence, in the forests and, finally, in those areas which have tourist, cultural and natural beauty. You have undertaken an obligation of 1% of the cables that need to be subjugated, to start them as a project, as you said, summer and, indeed, before summer. Now we're all summer and I want you to tell me exactly where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u50	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, Mr Loverdos, you are welcome every month and every week to table questions and to exercise parliamentary control over the very serious issues of cable and forest cleaning. In our last parliamentary conversation here about a month ago, I, too, told you, but also Mr Screkas, the Minister, in a subsequent parliamentary conversation with you, that the work of subsidizing the air cables of the TEDO will be intensified in the summer. So I come directly to the evidence. The TEDO has already begun the execution of works or is going directly in the next few days, to begin, in the following areas of Attica: Thracedonons, Acharnai, Cameroon, Heidari, Petroupoli, Ilioon, Byron, Nea Makri, Penteli and Oropo. That's what's done already. Once the necessary permits from the local forests and decentralised administrations have been completed, and the economic conditions laid down in the municipalities are met, the respective sub-broadcasting projects of the air cables in the following areas are immediately launched: Mandra, Megara, Paiga, Koropi, Cesarean, Nice and Glyfada. So, as you can see, what we said in reply - the Ministry of the Environment, namely - is that we are starting immediately in the summer according to our government planning. From that point on, I would like to add the following: by 2025 the subordination of two thousand and fifty miles of electricity grid will have been implemented, and 30% of them will be in areas of Attica. A study has already been carried out for the selection of regions, which contains clear criteria with mainly forestry and population density. In my dentistry, I'm going to talk about cleaning forests with certain elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u53	Minister, I am quite aware that as far as the issue of the non-collection of the broken branches, which are collected in some areas affected by the "Medea" is concerned, there has been a job since we talked here again - I also have visual contacts with the topic - but the outbreaks remain in the court, the Oropo, the Hippocrates State, where you referred a moment ago. In New Eritrea, too, in the municipality where I live, we see sporadicly - not as we have seen - some rest of the problem. So the removal of a problem does not exist while we are in a summer season and we have had a catastrophic fire a few days ago. So, when we come here again with good, we have to be well, in July, we need to talk about the complete elimination of the phenomenon, otherwise there will be outbreaks of danger everywhere in the areas that I mentioned and elsewhere in Attica. Let's go to the basement now. It's unfavourable that he'd enter a bulldozer before summer. You said that. I didn't say that. I have the minutes here. It's off! Let's go for the summer. I have heard a phrase that makes me suspect in the years I have in politics, 'they are moving immediately'. That's murderous!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u54	I said they started.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u55	You will tell me where they started, what timeframe they have and where they start immediately and what it means immediately. I in Greek, if I want to say something about something that's going to happen tomorrow, I say it starts right away. Immediately means no other mediation. I don't know what you mean. But it's good for the House to know exactly what you mean. We are also very interested in the cost of the project. Because we have heard and read that the total cost of the project is 18.5 billion. It's a huge cost, it needs to be extended within a decade to cover it. And you said here last time - because I read your speech - about 3.5 billion. The difference between what the Minister says and what is written is too great. So we need to know what the total cost is. And you also said that whatever it is, it is part of the Recovery Fund. So I want you to tell us because things about the Recovery Fund go ahead if it actually joined and what work this is. Finally, I told you that I was borrowed by Mr Stephano Mano a study he has done for a long time. He says if we're going to start digging, let's dig up for all the services that require digging to get through something. In particular, for the fibers needed for the period of the fourth industrial revolution. That's what I can see. He hasn't bothered you. But I'm not a silkmaker. I know the enemy of good is the best. I'm trying to figure out if what you promised, you're really moving on. And for both of us to be clear to the people who are listening to us, I want you to tell me what started at what stage we are, what it is to start immediately, what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u56	Mr Amyras has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Loverde, I must tell you that we are worried about forest fires every day, as I think all of us in this Chamber and outside. Forest fires have happened, and unfortunately they will occur because of mainly two factors. The first is the climate crisis. I prefer to call it climate crisis, not climate change, as we live periods of extensive drought, a lack of rain, and that is why fuel accumulation in forests and forests is caused. The second factor, of course, is human and it is mainly negligence. That is why I call once again for the Ministry of the Environment to be very careful, not to light fires, to understand and to understand that the lighting of fire in this period and by October is forbidden. But it's not a ban, it's a matter of simple logic. Some people with this famous negligence cannot go burn up, their weeds and have the unpleasant results. So our concern is great. It doesn't stop, we don't reassure, and we're putting the burden on prevention. So you said - and I am glad you recognise it - that since the last time we talked about collecting accumulated branches and fallen dried grass and logs has been a job. It's been a job because we've all mobilized, decentralized administrations, municipalities, forests. And we've moved fast in multiple ways, because that's what we're doing. I am not telling you this to say that we are commended for this. It is our job and we are working hard to achieve the key point in forest fires, namely prevention. For example, with all the decentralised administrations we have contacted for a long time, a month ago. And now most of them have mobilized their forests to take off cleaning studies because we gave them the money. And they're already getting into synergy and cleaning. For example, I give you credits of about 80,000 euros that we gave to the Fortress of Thessaloniki and the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia and Thrace, which proceeded with the flooding and removal of and fire protection works for Shahik Soo in Thessaloniki. You mentioned the court, the New Eritrea and the Oropo. First of all, I must tell you that in the Hippocratic State, cleansing and fire protection have been carried out for three weeks. We had gone with Mr. Hardalia, the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, and we saw them with our eyes and we have constantly contacted them both there and the Forestry and the municipality. I'll see about the court. I do not know about the court whether or not they have moved forward. I'll contact both the decentralised administration and its office and the municipality. If, as you know, the forest belongs within the municipality, the municipality is responsible for cleaning. I'll see what point you're talking about, and I'll answer you. But there are at the moment that we are talking about workshops, contractors and forest cooperatives that clean forests and perimeter areas with forest area in eleven municipalities and eighteen areas first of all about Attica, that is, from Hippocrates, which we have just spoken to Horopo to Salamis. There's work going on. We will never say that it was the best job in the world and we are satisfied, under any circumstances. We will always want the most, and we will always press for mayors, decentralised administrations, regions and municipalities to do this work. We finance them, we make the studies and we keep pushing them. I have told you that from my position and from my portfolio I have sent three letters a month and a half not now to all the municipalities in the country and to thirty-two to mobilize them to tell them where they will find the money, I can explain where they will find the money. We, especially in the Ministry of the Environment, have also, for the first time, achieved the ultimate mobilisation of the EUR 80 million of the Rural Development Programme for fire protection and prevention. Seventy-five acts have already been adopted. Municipalities, individuals and other bodies have already proceeded with cleaning and are moving on. It is a programme that was mobilised too quickly because we were aware of the importance of prevention. I have to say one more thing. The Minister for Transport and Infrastructure was here earlier, Mr Karamanlis, who spoke about the flooding. And we, for our part, have financed it. At the moment that we are talking, there are flooding projects in fifteen regions throughout Greece. As we have also given 32 million for the restoration of forests and forest areas. But we're not restless, we're worried. We're always on our feet, constantly mobilizing everyone. And we appeal once again to the citizens, to the district officers, to the mayors to be alert to everyone. Prevention is the key. These are related to the removal of the forest fuel from the forests. Now, in connection with the subtitling of your cables, I told you, Mr. Loverde, where they've started. They have started in Thracomacedones, Acharnes, Cameroon, Haydari, Race, Petroupoli, Illion, Byron, Nea Makri, Penteli and in part of Oropus. And they'll start, that's what you're saying, and elsewhere. And what does it mean to start? It's nothing vague. The authorisations must be completed and the authorisations completed. Because everything is done with necessary permits both from the forests and from the municipalities which have set economic conditions. So where they will begin because we are reaching the end of these permits are Mandra, Megarra, Paña, Coropi, Cesarean, Nice, Glyfada. We will be here in the context of parliamentary scrutiny to answer these two issues next month. As far as I'm concerned, I'll look into it and tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, the 10-6-2021 criminal case law concerning the Minister of Health Kingdom of Kiilia. We continue with the sixth timely question of the second cycle under No. 845/7-6-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Olympus: the government is considering the installation of industrial wind power stations". Mr. Ashenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it was fatal that the nerve would reach Olympus! After planning at Zagorohoria, Tymph, Tsuka Rossa, Dadia, Evros Delta, Levadi and the Virgin Forest. There is no contagious place for nature in Greece that has not been launched for wind turbines. And now of course we've reached Olympus. Within forest areas, close to the villages of Karya and Kallippeki, in the south of the national park, in the northern foothills of the lower Olympians, in place of Toumba Elassona, one and a half square kilometres from the “NATURA” and SPA bottom Olympus Mount Gatmani and Rodia Valley, the assessment for wind turbines has begun. In fact, all this has emerged as one of the six mountains and sites of Greece, which is globally important, not only for European legislation and the NATURA network, but also because we now have the proof, after studying the University of Ioannina, that they host areas with no roads above fifty square kilometres. And it is, as we have discussed again and again, Olympus, Typhy in Zagorohoria, Smolicas, Saos in Samothraki, Taygetos and the White Mountains. These six areas. And you're going to the Olympus emblematic and you're currently opening the windy debate. Your predecessor, Mr. Economou, was bound by this here the Stepma will protect the road-free areas. You have come - because I have also asked a repetitive question, to see if the continuity of the commitment is true - and you have taken it back. I invite you to commit on behalf of the government that road-free areas will be protected, these six mountains over fifty square kilometres and the rest, which are also very important and, if I am not mistaken, over a thousand hundred areas of this type in Greece from a square kilometre and on a road free. In this context, of course, the debate will not even go any further, to reject the work on the winds in Olympus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, once again I would ask you to give us your opinion on renewable energy sources. You want some clean energy? Do you want an E.L.D.? Do you want to or do you not want to? So many times I have asked you in here to welcome a renewable energy project in Greece. Give me one. Isn't there one? I say this because to those in Parliament's debates we are always saying 'no' to everything, particularly to the question of the 'green' transition of our economy, its liberation, its decarbonisation and the transition of local societies to 'green' development models. We have decided and want renewable energy, we want to use both the air and the wave and the sun and geothermality. Above all, I must assure you once again that this 'green' transition of the country, namely from lignite to air, geothermality, wave and sun, is done with absolute respect for the Constitution, laws, biodiversity and environmental protection. You're asking me about the New Road Areas, the PPAs. I am pleased that you recognise that capitalist America has done something good and you suggest that we adopt it. Although you don't have to suggest it to us, because we're already studying it and knowing what we're going to do. The PDPs, Neighbourhood Areas, that is, started in 2001 in the United States of America. The rule was, as it was called, the Roadless rule, and institutionalised at federal level, some states tried to throw it over them, but the Federal Court finally left the PPAs in their place in capitalist America. So let's go now to the Greek case. Indeed, Greece has a chance to institutionalise and protect some large areas that are not designated by roads. The road network of Greece, Mr President, is more than thirty-sixty-seven thousand kilometres, and these roads divide the territory of the Greek land into four thousand and fifty-nine pieces. The possibility of being at a distance of more than one kilometre from some road, from wherever we are in Greece, is about 6%. We know, we recognize and work, and you will soon have the opportunity to tell us your opinion of the decisions and movements of our Government, in relation to preventing the fragmentation of the earth and in particular of the mountains you mentioned. But I'm coming to Olympus. Olympus does not need to be placed under PDP, Unregulated Area, because we already have ready and the Presidential Decree of its absolute protection is in the Council of State. The President-in-Office of the Council was sent to the Council and the Council on 1 December, which sent us the draft President-in-Office's decree, Mr President, with very good remarks and some proposals for changes. These proposals by the Council of State, of course, the services with the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment, have incorporated into the new draft Presidential Decree, and we have re-entered it for control. It is therefore a matter of a few weeks, Mr President, that Olympus should be placed under the regime of absolute exceptional protection. But there is still one more thing, if I may, Mr President. We with the Ministry of Culture and the Organisation for the Natural Environment and Climate Change of the OFYPEKA join forces and create an application file for Olympus for its inclusion in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Monuments. That's what I hope he's telling you. And as far as the timetable is concerned, in September 2022 the dossier will be sent in full detail to UNESCO, which will reply in January 2023. You see, then, how we move. Firstly, in the next few weeks we have the President-in-Office's decree on the absolute protection of Olympus, and secondly, we are also moving towards its emergence and respect for its natural landscape by including it in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Monuments. For what you're asking me about winds, I'll answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u62	Better, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I see a change in the way you speak of off-road areas. Of course you have made a commitment to other things as a government that we have never seen: for a landfill of RES, Mr Mitsotakis said that winds over a thousand metres will be banned, but none of them have been implemented a year and a half after. Just announce it again and again. As for what RES projects I welcome, because I have installed in my home and lived in an autonomous energy house, because all this for me is not a theory, but I have experienced it and it is my experience, let it be better. But let me tell you what you have to do right now. At the moment you have to stop any new wind turbines, finish with this licensing scheme, go use the money of the Recovery Fund to make a "home saving" for all dwellings and households, with photovoltaic roof installation on all rooftops and households, as the European Union tells us, in 2019 in its study. And not we will have 13% installed power, as we have today, with wind turbines in the most untouched places, but 33% of the energy consumed we will produce, based on the European Union's figures. You don't want it, because the money's going to the households. You want to give them to the five wind contractors and let them level the last habitat, the last "NATURA", the last protected area. So leave that topic. I cannot understand exactly what you mean by saying that Olympus does not need to protect areas without roads. First of all, I would remind you that the presidential decree on the protection of Olympus would not exist under the Hatzidakis Act. It was mine, our complaint here that forced the government to bring an amendment so that this presidential decree would not be abolished. Because you then took up this position, I remind you. So, we're glad to see it progress, because we saved it. With regard to double protection, you have not made a commitment to protecting areas without roads. Mr. Economou was committed, you overthrown it. Now you are speaking positively, but I have not heard a clear commitment. We'll see, you said. I have heard a clear commitment, however, that Olympus does not need such protection. Do you want to say that when the European Union declares an NATURA region and at the same time considers the same area of NATURA as a special bird 'NATURA'? Is it arbitrary to protect a place for different reasons? We would like you to be clearer. Will Olympus be protected as an area without roads? And what does that mean to those winds? Will you allow Olympus, one and a half miles from the protected area for the Ornithane? Be clear. What are you going to do about the PDP? Because promises we have heard about all the other issues, such as the landfill of RES that you are constantly violating. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, with that. You're telling us you're keeping the laws. You are in the gallery of the European Court of Justice for the infringement of the environmental assessment. You're not making a proper assessment. For NATURA, you are invading the EIA's spatial planning double. As far as Evia is concerned, for the ability to carry, after the minister's lies in the Chamber, you have rescinded and found another excuse why you are violating it. In Kythira, RAE has licensed production within the exclusion zone for traditional settlements and archaeological sites. Now, in two months' time you told us that the bear plan and the bear exclusion zone are being introduced, you put wind turbine generators in the nymph. What else will you do to violate European and national legislation in every way?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u64	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u65	Be clear what you will do for road-free areas. No more hollow promises!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Not just clear, but very clearly I was in what I told you. So, I would say, you too, be more open to what you hear, because you repeat us the same thing, as if you did not hear any answers you ask. In any case, you tell me about the PPAs. We, he says, have we changed our minds about the PDP? Who tells you that? You are younger here in Parliament and you have no picture. Since 2015, for six to seven years, I have been talking about the PPAs. I have tabled parliamentary questions, I have tabled parliamentary proposals to the committees that I took part, the environment, the production and trade. What are you talking about, that I changed my mind about the PDP? In my view, I have the potential, on better conditions, to promote it, not as a personal view, but as a political position which is of great importance to the protection of biodiversity. You have of course referred to the University of Ioannina and the scientific work that has been done. I can inform you that last weekend I was with the teacher, Mrs Kathi, in Papiggos, and we were discussing this issue under Typhie and Astraka and the Papiggos towers. Of course, we have also taken into account its research and scientific work, and we consider it extremely important. I asked you many times: Do you want RES or do you not want to? And you said, no new wind turbines should be. Yes, sir. I'll keep that. You say about the NATURA regions and, as you say, if someone listened, they would think that in the NATURA areas you can neither walk nor touch your fingertip. The NATURA regions have a vitality. Depending on the ecological interest of the core or outside of the core, there is the possibility of licensing on hard environmental terms of various uses. I'll bring the Laurel for example. If you go for a walk to Sounio, you'll pass through the National Dragon. The road will reach you until Sunio. This use is authorised. However, everything is being done under the legislation, controls, strict checks by the agencies and, in any case, it is important to understand that there are laws, that there are a Constitution and that we must observe. That is why I suggest you remember that there is a special decision on wind parks by the Council of State, 2499/2012, which allows their development even in forest areas, even in reservoirs. So don't say words that just create impressions and have no substance. In relation to lower Olympus now, because we are talking about lower Olympus, you are confusing and talking on purpose about Olympus, talking about the work that has not yet been licensed, but talking about an area outside the protected area. You said so. It's a mile and a half. There is, fortunately, no system in this country and in this democracy that a Minister will decide where a project will be carried out or where it will not be done. There are the relevant agencies, there is a security grid, there is the Constitution, there are the laws and everything is done and it has to be done in the right way. We have the competent environmental authorities, which are refining any licence before it is matured and licensed if it reaches this point. For this project, therefore, it is still under evaluation by the RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority, and has not yet been prepared an environmental study. The play's back. We will see whether or not it will be done, depending on what the environmental study will show and what the decisions of the Department of Environmental Licensing will show. It is also mandatory for the region concerned, because it is adjacent to the NATURA area, the specific ecological assessment of possible effects on the protected area and the final approval for the implementation of this project will be given only if it is proven beyond doubt that the species, habitat types and the integrity of the Olympus NATURA 2000 neighbourhood will not be adversely affected. This is democracy. That's how we move. I will neither decide whether a project is done or not, because everyone in their minds may want alpha or omega. Our laws indicate how it will be done. I would like to tell you, in particular, that we are preparing for the Ministry of the Environment and it will soon be ready and I inform you that it will be much stricter than the current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u68	We thank the Minister. We continue with the first with number 5213/536-23-2021 question and application for the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B2' Western Sector of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "Trikala: destruction of part of the river of Agiamoniotis". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all we are talking about the biodiversity of Agiamoniotis, but let me remind you, because perhaps you do not know, that for the road-free areas I had a global initiative personally, I had brought the issue to Rio in 2012, I have passed laws in the European Union, maps have been made at global level thanks to my work at European level and, anyway, let you be informed instantly. For winds, what we are saying is to stop the licensing plan at the moment, make photovoltaics on the roof and start the debate by only zero with social consensus, only with social planning and the revenues of local society. For the reservoirs you mentioned it is impressive, because so long you say to us: "But we will make the geraneans reservoirs, there will be no wind turbines coming in" and you suddenly remembered that the wind turbines are not excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u70	How? What did I bring? Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u71	That's right, that's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u72	Hang on, Minister, you'll answer later, you'll have the time. Mr. Arseni, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u73	You were telling us about total protection of Olympus and now you say 'yes, we'll assess whether the winds will get into Olympus'. Now, for Ayamonitis, we came here to talk about this because you did not answer and your Minister does not come to answer, which we haven't seen in the House in a while. It comes only for contracts with Skouria and the other large companies, for parliamentary control we have had a long time to see and we would wait for him because it is for his constituency, but also for that reason he has not dared to come. We therefore have the complaint from the Roe-Citizens' Association in favour of the Ramaics, which it denounces for Agiamoniotis now and for Lethios that neither a thousand trees were cut down in the two rivers together. We have two hundred and fifty in Ayamonite and another seven hundred fifty in Lethos. The impressive thing is that these projects were made by the municipality, while it has no competence, the region has it, without any approval of the region, no programming contract, nothing has been done as flooding and no environmental impact study, and it is cleansing and cleansing is done with its hands properly. There is no delimitation of the river, it has been exceptionally done on the basis of the impact of the 'January'. I would remind you here that I was here, and I represented Mera25 with a big step of Mera25 at the Cardits rally for the compensation of the affected, and we support that, but it has nothing to do with it. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection states that these projects are not part of the projects after great flooding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u74	And finish, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we want you to give us the documents we are asking, it is clear, I will not call it any more time, you have it in front of you and you will answer the questions you have left unanswered for parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u76	Good. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, you are not allowed by anyone, and for no reason is anyone's words distorted. You have gone and twisted what I said to you in relation to the Council of State. So, one, we'll talk about it: Just explain it to me, please. You asked me a question a few months ago, asking me whether the Prime Minister and the Government would respect a decision of the Council of State. Of course, I had answered you that the question is unreasonable. I ask you now: do you accept the decisions of the Council of State, yes or no? I mentioned a decision by the Council of State, which is, however, structural in relation to what is allowed and not 'NATURA'. Do you or do you not accept the power of the Council of State to make a judicial judgement on this matter? Yes or no? One of the prisoners. Second of all, for the Elders, don't become a maker! I've said it here from this position, I'll say it again: in Gerranea and in the burnt areas, no wind turbines will appear. We won't allow anyone - but nothing! - construction of either wind park, mine, quarry, road or any artificial surface. So I ask your dentistry to point out that you have made a mistake by impending on me that we should make wind turbine generators. You must finally be serious and responsible. You're not any Internet trolls to twist what I'm saying about such sensitive issues. So I assure you, not - because what I am saying to you does not understand - that I assure the citizens of Corinthia and Attica that there is none - but none! - the possibility and we're not going to allow the construction of any surface, whether it's a windmill or a quarry or anything in the cathedrals of the Mount Geranes. We're done with this! With regard to Mr Screka, who said that he was absent, and that I came to reply to you, my dear colleague, that the Minister for the Environment and Energy is in Luxembourg, where the Energy Council is held. Do you want him to leave Luxembourg to come here and answer you? Oh, no. So I give you the answer from the Ministry of the Environment, and if it is not enough, you wait until Mr Skrekas is back with the good news, to put a timely question to him. Let's go to Trikala now. So the Agiamoniotis River cleansing was done for preventive reasons. What you're saying, that all of a sudden the Municipality of Trikkanes conspired, the district, the forest hall, the decentralized and that we, the Ministry of the Environment, were somewhere hidden back and we were watching and we were happy, it's only science fiction for Netflix. The reality is completely different and disproves you out of sight. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The excavations, therefore, for the adaptation of the bed and consolidation of the Agiamoniotis greens were judged by the technical services of the Municipality of Trikkai as an emergency and budgeting project of 350,000 euros and funding from the Public Investment Programme. What included in this study and the works that have been done? Remove firing materials from the bed, cleanse from genius vegetation, diffusion of excavation products, cutting and grubbing up trees. Mr Papastergiou, the mayor, made a public statement and said that we are going to catch up with the possible catastrophe, because we remember, a few months have passed since the bad weather that hit the wider region and especially Karditsa. So what the mayor did is superstitiously self-evident. And I would remind you that he did not do so arbitraryly and overcoming his legitimacy and competence, but he did so by decision of the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration, in respect of these projects, since the competences of study, award and execution of projects, the settlement of such projects, i.e. anti-military projects, can be entrusted to any relevant LAG, Local Government I grade 1. So the mayor didn't do anything on his head. As far as the rest of you are concerned, such as whether an environmental impact study has been carried out, I will answer them to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u78	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would ask the President-in-Office, too, to be sure, because he was not clear in his previous reply on a similar subject, that he will give a clear answer to us if he is going to submit the relevant documents. These four documents are: The study of the intervention work in the river system and the approval of the project by the Municipality's Technical Service, the Environmental Impact Study of the project, the decision on environmental licensing or the decision to exclude it, the authorisation of the Forestry for deforestation of the vegetation parapotamic. I would also like you to withdraw what you said about 'trol'. It's incomprehensible! I am referring to your express statements in this House, in plenary, where you said that no wind turbines will enter because they will be resurrected. I'm not a troll!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u80	What did I say? Repeat what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u81	You said there would be no wind turbines coming in because it would be declared resurrected. It's in the Minutes. I am not a troll, but you do not know what you are dealing with. It's not our fault! You also asked whether we were accepting the decisions of the NATURA Council. We accept the condemnation of Greece on 20 December 2020, just before you take over, for the NATURA areas, which stipulates that Greece must have management plans at NATURA, what is absolute protection and what is not. You're swinging your head! But listen to this, because you have half a billion fine! Without having defined the management plans, you are licensed everywhere in NATURA areas, such as Pierres, Pindos, Karystos, Mani, Jaro, Samothraki, Asterousia, Evros and any other NATURA border area there is. And you mentioned Mrs Kathy, that you had coffee under the gates of Astrakas, read the study of Mrs Kathi...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u82	Mrs Kattini is offended, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u83	...which says you don't need a single wind turbine at NATURA to achieve the goals! If you don't do anything in Gerranya, don't tell us as a political commitment, because we've done it! Go through law, what we ask again and again with our amendment to Mera25, for a 30-year ban on investment, mining, wind and tourists in an arson-burned zone. And stop it for negligence. That's over. We know what happened in Geranea. Do not leave it at your discretion. Now, Ayamonite is a lowland river. It doesn't start in the mountains. He's never flooded. The need for the projects carried out is not substantiated. The exemption from authorisations shall not be substantiated. It's not all the municipality of Trikanes in an emergency. It's just a settlement. He badly licensed - and we ask you for this - the Forestry which is your supervising body, to cut three hundred fifty trees, and obviously a thousand have been cut off. It's not just us. There is now the text of the Coordinator of the Decentralised Administration. We are talking about those whom you asked for February, as published in the 'Energy Press', to approve winds, even if they have negative opinions. This guy in Trikala asks the Forestry to justify this decision and take pictures before and after. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You can't justify what has been done in Trikala from nowhere. Give us the documents to follow the legal procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u84	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it is clear that we will be tabling all the documents and send them by service, as we always do. Now, of course, what you said was very bad, I would also say insulting to Mrs Kathi, the scientist at the University of Ioannina, as you said we went for coffee. I wonder how these illusions, let's say, come from such an insulting behaviour and such a speech in relation to a scientist of exceptional interest in her work, which we were talking about. We were talking about the attitude of Mrs Kattega who has made a serious scientific documentation and you have deported it to the limits of sexism with your comment. So for your own class, please ask that what you said about coffee with Mrs Catais be deleted from the Minutes. With Mrs Catatica, we didn't drink coffee. We went and discussed with other players - it was the District Director, the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Zacharakis, the Administration of the FRYPEKA - for ecotourism. If for you ecotourism equals coffee, then don't go walk in the mountains, because you'll miss caffeine. Let's go down. I would also suggest that you come read here. You ask with what support the Municipality of Trikkai has intervened in the river, and according to the law this is forbidden. One of your partners will tell you that there is both Law 4528/2014 and Article 7(2) and 2.1, which gives this possibility and authorization to the mayor, if the watercourse or the river passes within the urban settlement to the border of the municipality, to do the work of cleaning study, etc. So let's find out so that you don't make such mistakes. You said something else amazing, which is that the master gave permission. What can I tell you? This is how democracies operate, how the coordinate states operate, with institutions, responsibilities, accountability and control. You will not tell any service factor 'bad' or 'good' about an act which is documented. So from the region of Thessaly - why are you asking whether there has been an environmental impact study for the Trikala - an exemption from the environmental licensing procedure was issued in the same morning, and confirmation from the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment has also been obtained from the Department of the Department of Environment. It was not required to adopt a decision approving or making them subject to standard environmental commitments. And it was not required because the work on the river, on the Agiamoniotis, was limited to vegetation, waste and jaw. But they were not exempted from other approvals, such as Forestry, which you might not like, but Forestry has the self-employed. She has her independence and scientific documentation to make her decisions. You also say that four hundred trees were cut. And that's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u86	A thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u87	A thousand? You've done it to a thousand now. Listen, then, a total of two hundred thirty - one trees were felled, with a typhoon of seventy - five cubic meters. It is clear that there was a permit from the Forestry, under Protocol No 38897/18-11-2020, as well as from the Land Administration, under Protocol No 37299/4-11-2020. In fact, Trikalon Forestry made the counting of trees that had to be cut off. I note, therefore, that the mayor and the Municipality of Trikkaion moved fully to the limits of their legitimacy and competence. It was a preventive project after the bitter experience of the flood in Karditsa, especially in the wider Trikala region. I am sorry to inform you once again that it is the task of the audit mechanisms if something has not been done to intervene and not my own, to raise the phone and to tell the mayor: 'What have you done, mayor, there?' There is, of course, communication, but there is also the state's control mechanism. Trust this state once and do not invoke a card. One you want the Council of State, its decisions, the other you do not want it. You say one another, you say the other. I've answered everything. Please ask that you delete from the Minutes this very bad chat about coffee with Mrs Kathi and here we are to reply again, as always with evidence and documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u88	Mr Arseni, you have the floor. We continue with the last two topical questions to the Ministry of Labour, to which Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou will answer. The fourth question will be discussed, under number 844/7-6-2020, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of: "Union treatment for beneficiaries of orphans' pensions and widows". Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the reason why I tabled this timely question is because a very serious issue has arisen following repeated censorship of citizens, who have certainly come to your knowledge, in relation to discrimination in relation to the award of orphan pensions to children who have lost their parent before the publication of L.4387/2016. On the basis of a differentiation resulting from Article 19(7) of Law No 4611/2019, these children are unfortunately not subject to the favourable provisions of Article 19(2) of Law No 4611/2019 because an arbitrary criterion has been laid down, the date of death of the retired parent, with the effect that children of two speeds have actually been born. In particular, that provision provides that the only condition for receiving the pension is that they should not be single, that they should not have exceeded their eighteenth year of age or that the twenty-fourth year in which they are students. It has been notified to the Ministry of Labour for a long time - if I remember very well a year ago - a complete amendment which, in a very simple way, extends the favourable arrangements of the relevant provision to these children in a horizontal, uniform manner so as to restore and eliminate this flagrant injustice of two speeds. The same injustice exists in relation to widow’s pensions when the wife or wife loses his or her husband who was a pensioner after the publication of the 2016 Law. If death has occurred since the publication of the 2016 law, 100% of its own pension plus 70% of the deceased for three years and after three years 50%. If death has occurred prior to the publication of the 2016 law, only 25% of the pension of the deceased or 100% of hers is entitled. The question is, therefore, that, at the moment, there is, as I mentioned, a flagrant injustice and indeed for citizens in similar situations and that the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination is violated on the basis of an arbitrary criterion that is the date of death, what does the Ministry of Labour intend to do in order to restore this injustice and comply with the State's constitutional obligation to protect vulnerable members, families and, more generally, to provide care for this vulnerable category of citizens? We're talking about happy people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Adamopoulou, one of the long-term diseases of our insurance system has certainly been broad fragmentation and the absence of uniform rules. This has been recognised by all previous governments. In this context, the creation of the EBRD was the main aim of unifying the insurance rules and avoiding diverse conditions and provisions for pensions and benefits per former fund. However, we must admit something. Such major changes that require consolidation of heterogeneous assumptions function in de facto terms and as references. It is sufficient to consider similar laws of insurance reform, for example Law 2084/92, which introduced the separation of insured persons into insured persons before and after 1993. Thus Law No.4387/2016 introduced new uniform rules that may be favourable at some points for the insured...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u92	Wait a minute, Minister. I'm so sorry for the interruption. I'll beg a lot for quiet. Respect the Member who is asking a question and the Minister who is giving answers or, in any case, respect the timely questioning procedure. We are all going through this process and we want at least to be quiet in the Chamber so that we can hear the answers and positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u93	If possible, Minister, speak louder because I can't hear you clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u94	Minister, a warm request to perhaps speak closer to the microphone or speak louder and more intensely in your voice to sound better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u95	You're right, Mr. President. As long as the masks are, we have that problem. I return to my answer to Mrs Adamopoulou's question. With regard to the question of the pensions of orphan children you raise in the first part of your question, according to Law No.4387 and the relevant changes made by Law.4611/19, if the insured person’s death occurred after 13-5-2016 - i.e. when the Katorugalou Act entered into force - the uniform rules apply regardless of the former body granting the pension. Beneficiary children are entitled to a pension on account of the death of the parent provided that they are single and do not have completed the twenty-fourth year of age. For the scheme before Law No4387/2016, the conditions for transferring to the rightful children and over the age of eighteen vary with each former fund but are generally linked to the requirement to maintain the student status. On this point, however, I would also like to remind you of something else that we often tend to forget. The calculation of the pension under Law No.4387 as compared to the calculation of the schemes before Law No.4387 usually leads to a lower amount of pension, even if we take into account the protection granted to old pensioners by the personal difference. So what do I mean by that? Consequently, in many cases, although the percentage of the transfer before Law No.4387 is nominally smaller, the amount of the transfer is higher than that of Law No.4387. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] In the case of widow's pensions, differentiation is also applicable on the basis of the date of death. However, there was a practice of consolidating rules in this case, obviously with all the difficulties involved in such an operation. Thus the death-related pension rate for pensioners is the same as for other survivors in the private sector, equal to 70% of the pension due to death, for a three-year period, as you mentioned earlier, and then reduced to 50% if the beneficiary is working or self-employed or receives a pension on his own right. At the same time, however, the survivor continues to receive his full pension. The change here, as in the previous case, was for the benefit of the insured, that is, before the publication of Law No4387, the surviving spouse chose which pension he would receive in full, while the other was reduced by 75%. However, as I have explained before, creating uniform rules is not an easy task and we must always consider the full picture without omission of important factors. In this light, the new single rule should be seen through the change in this new calculation of the pension of the deceased from 13-5-2016 onwards compared to the prestige situation. To conclude my prototype - and I will come back to some points in my dentext - I would like to point out that unification of rules in general, into all public policies, and I would venture to add, even more to social security, is always a painful and multifactorial process. Those who formulate the policy must take into account in a balanced manner the need to improve the well-being of the citizens, the qualitative differences in the benefits of the insured before and after the adoption of the uniform rules and the financial consequences of the planned change, both in the short term and in particular in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I fell for feathers. I have heard a report on ideas at the moment. Excuse me, Secretary, but we're talking about a very small number of families. We're talking about fifty and seventy families. They're not even a hundred families. The amount of the pension for those not covered by the favourable provisions shall be at least EUR 200-300 per month? We're talking about such amounts. Right now, what do you claim, budget deficits, budgetary reasons? Is that possible? First of all, the government has announced some money from the Recovery Fund. Let us make use of this money for both this pillar, for the vulnerable, and not just for the fifty big businessmen you want to favour. As for the diffusion of public money with direct awards, and Mrs Nikolaos and the Minister of Justice, I will mention yesterday's publication: The Minister of Justice to host the famous historians, Mr. Mazauer, renovated the amphitheatre with only EUR 170,000 for the renovation. And right now, for vulnerable citizens, are we making such calculations? If that's possible! We're talking about children under the age of eighteen, some just studying, they don't have incomes. We have not said that retroactive power should be given to all children who have at the moment reached the limit. I shall table the amendment in the Minutes, although you have been notified. You can well incorporate it in the Ministry of Labour bill that is being discussed next week. In addition, it is your regular practice to table unreasonable amendments. She's not so unrelated. Please pay great attention to these families, which are at the limit of desperation and poverty. We do not accept the financial argument. It is a purely pretext, because expansion and it will not be particularly burdensome for the state budget. You have to calculate that for many years the deceased have normally paid their insurance contributions. Why in the end should this injustice exist for them? It's too little to diverge, to God.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u99	Mrs Adamopoulos, three points before I go to the point of my denology. Nor is the number you are referring to so small, the recovery fund money is primarily to be directed to investments and not for such purposes. But the main one: While this thing you are referring to may indeed be a small financial cost, it is the issue at first sight. When you start doing this thing for a team, you have to do it to anyone else that's inside. I mean, choose any of the two things that are before or after. But that's exactly the thing that can't be done. No law that has such a decisive change, like the Katorugalou law, does this thing here. To come to the heart of the matter, it is very important to realise that when deep areas are introduced, especially in the insurance system, limits must be set for the validity of the law introducing them, even more so when we talk about the unification of rules, we must consider that the changes that are introduced do not only work and have not been made vacant. In other words, these changes involve both favourable and less favourable arrangements for insured persons. The legislator, however, must draw the line somewhere, defining the scope and time of each device. To put another dimension, however, it cannot be administratively effective that any change in the insurance system will lead to a review of all the benefits already paid. In addition to leading to excessive administrative burdens for the institution, namely, the ECA, in this case, it is not necessarily positive for the insured persons themselves, who must be able to rely on the body’s decisions. And, of course, we cannot only make selective application of the favorable arrangements to every law. I would also like to remind you that L.4387 was not voted on by the New Democracy, but as a government we were called upon to manage all the strangles and feuds created by this law. The law has been judged as to its unconstitutionality and has been corrected by the present Government in many and important parts of it. Therefore, for the parts to which you refer, the issue of the unconstitutionality of these provisions is not raised. In your question you refer to an unjust treatment among the insured of the ECA, arguing that the state is unequally treating citizens on the arbitrary basis of an accidental criterion, such as the date of death. Death may be an accidental event, which cannot of course be determined, but it is the most crucial event which makes orphan children or surviving spouses eligible for pension. The date of death is the time when the right is first born in the person of the beneficiaries. As is well known, applications for retirement are generally considered on the basis of the time when the right is founded and exercised. This is therefore not an arbitrary option, as mentioned in your question. You are referring to unequal treatment, but the essential respect of the principles of equality, legitimacy and, above all, good administration requires that the laws as a whole be applied, as any regulation continues in operation and in financial terms with the full range of provisions. In fact, the fragmented extension of arrangements so that they can be applied retroactively can also lead to the opposite result, because it would mean an extension and less favourable regulation to insured persons who already have fundamental rights. As I explained in my prototype, the calculation of pension under the existing institutional framework without even protecting personal differences in many cases may lead to a lower amount of pension than the previous scheme. At the same time, and I repeat this because it is very important when we are planning policies relating to our insurance system we should have in mind and the dimension of its viability. This means that we must always take into account the financial constraints that the country has. I have repeated this many times since the Stepping of the House, in reply to your colleagues, that any intervention in the insurance must be dealt with overall, because any intervention can lead to greater risks if it ignores the financial dimension and thereby jeopardises future pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. We enter the fifth under No. 857-6-2021 topical question of the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Expansion of the Comprehensive Convention on the working of tourist bus drivers". Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I also raised your point during our previous debate when we requested the declaration as a general requirement for the sectoral collective bargaining of hotel staff. Today my question relates exclusively to the issue of the collective contract for the work of tourist bus drivers of Crete, which they concluded with employers, the tourist agencies of Crete. After discussions, but also months' controversy, the agreement was reached. Employers and workers have agreed and, above all, their thinking is about the need to have a decent job and pay at a time when we need workers, human power and also employers to relaunch the economy. Since we are already in the tourist season, we are already in an uncertainty for other reasons and given that, in order to declare the collective agreement as compulsory, many of the procedures provided for in the circular and the law have been carried out when the previous collective agreement was declared, my question is a specific one. Can you follow a shorter process than this bureaucratic procedure provided for by the law and the circular, as I have told you, that the issue of impact on competitiveness has already been addressed, the registers of employers and workers have already been submitted since the last time, and the Higher Labour Council has already given a favourable opinion? Should the procedure be followed, but in a short way, because we are already in the tourist season? That is my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u102	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, I would like to say something a little more general. We all know that pandemic, which has been afflicting Greece for more than a year. Many of the measures to limit the pandemic have had an impact on economic activity and employment. That is why we have taken numerous measures as government and despite the country's strong budgetary constraints. Obviously these measures were more intense in sectors which have been hit more strongly and of course one of them was tourism. More specifically, it has already been announced that for seasonal re-entry workers in tourist accommodation and tour buses, which will be re-entered, the right to be subject to the suspension of a contract of employment is given, with special purpose compensation for May and June 2021. For the months following, from July to September, workers will be able to join the 'Cooperatives' programme, with full coverage of employers' and insurance contributions. For seasonal re-entry workers in tourist accommodation and tourist buses, who will not be re-entered, during May and June, shall be entitled to subject themselves to the condition that the contract of employment is suspended, with a special allowance, with unilateral declarations to the ‘ERGAN’ system. Other seasonal workers of non-compulsory reintegration will be able to join from 1 June and for six months from their recruitment, in the programme of the 100 thousand posts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and in the integration of their recruitment into this programme, will cover all insurance contributions, while their wages will be subsidized with EUR 200. These also cover the specific category to which you have been reported. The amounts allocated to the tourist industry through the repayable advance are calculated for the hotels at EUR 290 million, while another EUR 60 million relates to rooms. Furthermore, fifteen days ago, the Prime Minister announced another very important measure to support the affected tourist enterprises, including the businesses you mentioned, and this programme is aimed at the whole range of tourism businesses and tourist buses and can reach up to 400,000 per VAT. A total of EUR 420 million is planned to be made available to these enterprises in the form of a working capital. Regarding the collective contract of the guides to tourist buses of Crete, for which you ask me, from the information we had from our competent services, it was notified by the SEP of Crete that the contract between the Association of Tourist and Travel Offices of Crete and the Association of Guides to Tourist buses "ERMIS" was indeed signed on 25-5-2021 and the time of validity extends from 1 May to 31 December 2023. I have some more time, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u104	You have time and audience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it's an originality today to have such a big audience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u106	Minister, go on. You have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u107	What I mentioned in our debate in the House, on the occasion of the collective agreement on hotel officials, is that we consider it very crucial that the social partners can negotiate with great representativeness and decide on such important issues for their relationship. This particular contract, which we are talking about, is a locally identical professional contract, which has been submitted to the local labour inspectorate and the procedure laid down by law will then be followed. That can't be avoided, Mr. Kegeroglu. What this procedure is, you know it. The application, as defined by the law, should be considered by the Ministry's responsible department. The request for extension must be accompanied by a request to document the impact of the extension on competitiveness and employment and then to be sent to the Labour Council. This in turn, in order to decide whether to extend or not to the Convention, is to take into account three things, the request itself for extension, the documented confirmation from the relevant departments of the Ministry that collective regulation already binds employers who employ more than 50% of the workers in the industry or occupation and the finding of consultation of the parties before the Higher Labour Council on the necessity of expansion. Following this procedure, the Higher Labour Council shall send a recommendation to the Minister and he may, in turn, declare the Convention compulsory for all. And here's the crucial point. Mr Kegeroglu, from the information we have had on this contract, has so far not been submitted to the relevant departments - that is to say, the Crete Inspectorate or the head office of the Ministry of Labour - a request from the Contracting Parties to extend the contract. This is quite a critical point in relation to your question. I must admit I was surprised and asked to double-check. If this is not done, it cannot proceed with the rest of the procedure. When and when it is submitted, the procedure that I have just mentioned will be followed and if the criteria required by the law are met, of course, we will proceed with the extension of the contract. At present, all that has been submitted is the collective labour agreement between the two parties which, as you know very well, only binds the parties. But once the next steps are taken, we will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u109	Mr Minister, of course, you have referred to a set of measures and actions concerning workers. I believe that the extension of all this and beyond June will be necessary. The reality is that for tourism, things are not going as they were initially estimated. Therefore, suspension and support measures will also need to be extended beyond June. I come to the point itself. The contract has been submitted to the relevant APRC directorate. Unless it was abolished before the vote of the 'Hajidakis Law' the EIA and this statement does not apply. However, it has been submitted to Heraklion at the appropriate address, it has been sent to the Ministry at the head office, i.e. it has been received. And I confirmed that he has been received. If a particular request is needed, this is another issue that you are telling me. I, seeing what was followed in the previous one, see that there was no particular request. I will also tell you this and on this basis I will judge you in the next few days. The collective agreement was signed on 23-5 by accident. This year it was signed on 25, with two days' difference. And when was it generally declared compulsory? It's 12:00, that is, 20 days. I will judge you, on the basis of this twenty-day day, whether the procedures are in progress in a way that really suits the criticalness of the situation. We either believe that a more general mobilisation is needed to relaunch the economy and, above all, to the tourism sector, which also requires the safe workers, the workers who will feel security to help the effort, and we do all we can to achieve it or do not believe it, so we are going to 'lau-loos', which the people say. I'll testify to you the previous decision. It has no problem if, after the formal request, you take into account the previous one, which has already assessed the issues relating to its competitiveness and impact and, of course, the issues relating to the control of the register, namely the conditions set by its circular 218, are to be brought by the employers' registers, etc. They haven't changed. The most - very much - are 'dead' - within introductorys - some businesses because of the crisis. But, for the number of them to be increased, they are excluded. It is therefore something that we can, I believe, make use of and contribute to the consultation of both sides, since, in our view, and I believe in your own opinion too, understanding and cooperation in these difficult working and business conditions is the best thing. But this must be done on the basis of what both sides have agreed through collective bargaining and are reflected in collective agreements. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u110	Good, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u111	I will not go far, Mr President. Besides, what I had to say in my prototype. Mr. Kegeroglu, why does the law ask for the evidence at any time? It is precisely for an assessment of the situation at a time. Otherwise, we'd testify once and leave it like this forever. Just two things. The contract was actually filed. I mentioned it in my speech too. The application for extension was not lodged. Last year he was filed. Once all the normal procedures are submitted, they will also start from there and then really judge me for the 20day, but not before the application is filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u112	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on today's sitting is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u114	Yes, Mr. Tsipras, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u116	What exactly...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u117	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Rule 97(4), you know that I have the opportunity, as long as the House is full-time, to speak as Chief of Staff and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group. I want the floor for 15 minutes. You know why I am here, because there are several time-consuming questions before the Prime Minister's time and the Prime Minister chooses not to answer them. So I want the reason for...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u118	I'll tell you this, Mr. Tsipras. Did you finish what you wanted to say? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u119	I say, Mr President, that I want the floor, as I am entitled to under the Rules of Procedure, because I would like to address this House and the fact that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u120	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u121	...the parliamentary procedure is also needed for the substance of the matter, which I consider to be a major issue of equality and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u122	Let me remind you here that this is the second time you have come under parliamentary control. It has been the same before at another, corresponding meeting. In the meantime, there has been a debate on this matter in the Conference of Presidents and on the handling of the procedure, if you wish, I will give my position to the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, just a minute before you move on. You will disappoint me - I suppose - today, but why are you in a hurry to disappoint me? Leave me to that illusion. I want to tell you something, Mr President. The question you raised today is not a good one. The right of the Chiefs to speak in the House is abundant. But there is a agenda and you, Mr President, are attempting, as we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u124	I'd rather get off the Step, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, I just want to explain... I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u126	That's a little inconceivable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I have heard your request. This is the second time you have asked to speak on a similar subject. We were concerned with this at the Conference of Presidents on 3 June 2021. I took a position on this matter. I said that it is not possible to introduce a new practice - apart from the Rules of Procedure - one of the monologues if a political leader - from the Head of State to any political leader - considers that he can take the floor in the topical questioning procedure because he has not been on the agenda for the Prime Minister or Minister on his own question. This procedure, Mr President, let me say - and I have looked into this, in good faith - is not provided for. The leaders of the parties have a lot of right to talk about legislative work, questions, motions of censure, examinations everywhere. The only case the political leaders are not allowed to intervene is in the timely questions, which are explicitly limited by the Rules of Procedure between the questioner and the answering Minister. You are therefore attempting to establish a practice that is not provided for. We will either include it in the Rules of Procedure or this practice will not continue. I was willing to put this on 3 June at the Conference of Presidents and to say that it is evident that when Mr Tsipras first put it, he took the floor to explain what he wanted. But this cannot be a precedent and should be generalised. And there have also been answers from your resignation that this is obviously not going to be a daily practice. And I re-explain to the Conference of Presidents, for days now, that this thing can't then be generalized. And today, Mr President, you are actually asking for a new way of intervening in Parliament. I am open to every proposal to change the Rules of Procedure of the House, but Parliament cannot change its Rules of Procedure on the basis of initiatives which are not planned at all. Imagine this being generalised, we will have a complete overthrow of the parliamentary work and a full activist process that turns the House into a kind of scenery and you would not want, I believe, neither will you nor I. I therefore ask you very much today to put an end to this matter. The procedure has been completed. No Chief's address is foreseen. We have neither legislative work nor any other procedure. The President-in-Office has already announced the completion of the procedure. So let us not try to establish non-Rule de facto procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, please, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I am sincerely sorry about your attitude. Because you know very well that the one who violates the Rules of Procedure is not me, but he is the Prime Minister who writes the parliamentary procedure beforehand and, in particular, the established 'Premier Time'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I therefore call on you not to try to fade the voice of Officer Opposition within the temple of democracy - and let the'snakes' do not need'snakes', the President knows himself, he knows he is capable, as your party has attempted in these two years, to plunge any opposite voice into the media, as he has attempted even on social media, you will not be able to fade our voice into the temple of democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I therefore urge you, Mr President, to stand up to the circumstances as President of the Greek Parliament as a whole and not as President who accepts "snakes" of what he will say to the Chief of Officerial Response by Mr Mitsotakis' colleagues. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I urge you, Mr President, to tell me what the Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is, which does not allow me to speak as Chief of Staff, as former Prime Minister and President of Parliament, when, according to established parliamentary practice from 1974 onwards, the provision of Rule 97(6) applies mutatis mutandis, which stipulates that the Presidents of Parliament, the former Presidents of the Parliament, the former Prime Ministers, have the right to speak and be heard at any time. But you are talking about a process that we want to introduce here. It's not the parliamentary procedure. And when the government and the Prime Minister deceives it, they must have the responsibility of depreciation, not us who are here to express arguments and confront political speech. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I therefore urge you, Mr President, not to fall back on this very important misconduct. Because here you, too, have a responsibility as President of this House for the first time in parliamentary history to plunge the argument made by the Chief of Officership. I ask you to give me the floor for 15 minutes. Because I also think that, in addition to the issue I have already briefly raised, which concerns the procedure itself, there is also a major issue relating to this question, and in my view it is a fundamental problem for the functioning of the culture and democracy, the problem of overcompensation of the political parties to the detriment of Greek taxpayers. I would therefore ask you to give me the floor, otherwise you can explain on the basis of what Rule of the Rules of Procedure you deprive me of. And I would ask that you do not give up personally on the misconduct to be and be the president of the ruling party alone, and that you also have the approval in your election of the large share, the large majority and SYRIZA, as President of Parliament. Stand at this Step as President of the Greek Parliament and not as President of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, this is what I will do next and this debate will be concluded. I want to tell you this. Just because I care for the House to stand up more than myself, I do not want to turn, as long as I am President with the honorary vote of all of you in the House, into an inappropriate scene of political or party activism. And here's what I mean. The article to which you have just referred, which gives the parties' leaders the right, relates to legislative work. All the articles that give the floor to the parties' leaders are 97 which you said about legislation, 135 about questions, 97 in reproach, 137 in the committees of inquiry. No Heads of State or Government shall intervene in the timely questions. Why? There's a reason. The article that speaks of the topicals does not speak of the possibility of speaking for Heads, while all others speak of the possibility of speaking for Heads. That's the layout.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u131	What article says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u132	I have not interrupted the President. So you repeat something that has been answered by Mr Kaklamani and the previous time, that the Prime Minister does not answer the current questions. The Prime Minister has already answered seven topical questions and has raised five debates on his own initiative and has not completed half of this House, when in the previous House at the same time, sixty questions were answered by Prime Minister eight and we did not have such phenomena. I'll be done. It is precisely because I want the House to remain in its position, because I do not want the House to be turned into a scene of political activism, because during its meetings, the plenary cannot be turned into a sitting of any parliamentary group and because, in the timely questions, there are no monologues or one-offs, the sitting, as has already been said, is closed and I am waiting for your proposal to be amended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u133	You have no right to interrupt the meeting!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-11-S1-commons.u134	The debate has been completed, as has been said, in order to protect the authority of Parliament from any political activism. Thank you. The sitting is closed. End time: 12.13 ́
