ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-6-2021 authorisation, PMI's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday 24 June 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Simply the framework for the exercise of economic activities of ministries of development and investment, infrastructure and transport, health and tourism, arrangements for productive activities and other provisions for strengthening development’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP, B3' South Athens, the following:]] MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH [[To enter page 1a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the timelines for today's Questions, let me first announce to the House the Wednesday's Question Time issue on 28 June 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 871/14-6-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, Nea Charalambos (Babis) Papademiriou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Information on the effects and progress of tax incentives adopted by Parliament to attract investment and natural persons with tax residence abroad". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Syrias Malamas to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Serious problems in tourism in Northern Greece at the beginning of the tourist season". 3. The Question No 880/17-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance on the subject: "A solution for recognition of legacys from the land register". 4. Under No 874/16-6-2021, a topical question by MP A' Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Complete opposition from associations, institutions and residents of Eastern Attica, to the illegal operation of HYTA/HYTOM in the Graphics". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Chania of SYRIZA under No 877/17-6-2021 - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need for an extension of time schedules and the relaxation of suffocating conditions in agri-food and aid programmes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 875/16-6-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission of the European Communities for Change to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Increasing the Budget of the Young Farmers' Programmes and Improving the Financial Perspective' 3. The Question No 878/17-6-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Abrogation of an entry ticket to the Old Corfu Fortress". 4. The Question No 881/17-6-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, MP of Heraklion, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "A solution for recognition of the legacy from the land register". 5. The question raised by Mr Andreas Loverdos on the subject: 'Assessment of the application of the Prespecies Agreement and whether they are finally implemented, with the exception of the use of the name 'North Macedonia', the remaining arrangements of this agreement'. 6. The Question No 887/18-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Support measures for apiculture and the implementation of the aid programme for the beekeepers of Crete". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 888/18-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "A support measures for apiculture and the implementation of the aid programme for the beekeepers of Crete". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 6174/21-4-2021 of the SYRIZA Member of Parliament - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "In the unprecedented state of the ELTA service in Regional Unity (IP) Phytotidas due to government manipulations." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 6099/588/19-4-2021 and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "The complete resolution of the death of Sifi Valyrakis is not only an obligation of the state but also a minimum sign of honour in his history and his struggles". 3. The question and application under number 5978/577/14-4-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The N.D. government. plan to burden the electricity consumers with a new entrepreneur and create two-speed investors with the Greece 2.0 project.’ 4. The question by No. 6002/15-4-2021 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Ragdan degradation of the Greek Electricity Distribution Network (DEDDIE) operator in the context of his privatisation: the blackout of thousands of households in the bad weather of "Medea" and the tragic accident in Evia reveal the degradation plan of the Manager". 5. The question by No 5912/12-24-2021 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The Energy Communities and Actions to Combat Energy Poverty will remain outside the National Recovery and Resilience Plan". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the topical and urgent question report for today. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the questions to be discussed are as follows: Questions Nos 886/18-6-2021 and 889/18-6/2021 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridonas-Adoni Georgiadis. Question No 879/17-6-2021 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Question No 884/18-6-2021 will be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. Question No 885/18-6-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos. Question No 872/16-6-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Question No 883/18-6-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. We begin with the first under number 879/17-6-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: 'What criteria has the Government set for the purchase of new wells? Has it changed our defence strategy with regard to the capacity to defend our sovereign rights in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean?' Mr. Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, the Government has wrapped up in a package of four different Warship programmes, and I refer to the supply of four new wells, the upgrading of four MEKO wells, thirdly, the so-called intermediate solution with leasing to buy and finally the investment in shipyards. The immediate consequence of this packeting so far is that, not only the selection of new frigates, but also the upgrading of the four German MEOs launched by our own government, should have been chosen to date, assigned and already be in the execution stage. Not only that, but we also have a launch, as far as we know, of the cost of upgrading 120 million to our own government at 400. If you want to disprove me, please very much inform the House of the cost. Finally, the Prime Minister himself made a commitment last January, on 21 January, that the decision to acquire the four wells will be taken in the first half of 2021 that ends these days. In conclusion, this packaging does not only seem to reduce costs at present, but it increases it and above all prolongs the question of time when, as you know, it is extremely crucial for at least two reasons, and from the point of view of the credibility of the Greek Government and the country, but also, of course, because at the same time, other countries in the region are developing their equipment programmes and there is a huge question of geopolitical time. We are following this process which is rather innovative and slightly opaque. We are not in another country, such as Turkey, which is the leader's free head, to operate in one of his own ways. There are certain institutions which are not always followed, such as the recent meeting in Maximos, and it seems that the rejection of a particular type of frigate from a particular country has been decided, and I am referring to Spain. There are other procedures. And the question is: are there operational criteria, as they had been set for previous years in terms of the needs of the Navy? These needs are related only to the Aegean or to the Eastern Mediterranean and to the defence of our sovereign rights? Have these operational criteria been set in the candidate countries for the purchase of wells? And, finally, will we wait too long for the four wells to be decided? Will we wait until November when there will probably be a new proposal for a timetable or a decision, as the Prime Minister said, in the first half of 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, the first thing I have to say is that I am pleased that you are expressing a concern about the rapid and rapid completion of the necessary major armaments programmes of the armed forces. Unfortunately, this anxiety did not perpetuate you when you were a government and you were responsible for decision-making. That is why even if there were cases where you made a decision too late to implement it, I am referring to the 40 F-16 upgrade programme in the VIPER version. You didn't do anything. Now it's happening. And we really need to run fast to cover the lost ground. With regard to the large programme of the invitation of the four new wells and the upgrading of the four - the modernisation of the middle life, this is what is called to be precise - the MEO type and the invitation of the two ships that the Hellenic Navy prefers in the intermediate solution until the new ships have been built, it is certainly the biggest armament programme for the Armed Forces for decades and in terms of its cost, as well as its importance, especially the impact on the future of the Armed Forces and our Navy. So any choice must be made very carefully and I would say after a thorough evaluation of the proposals. There are too many newspapers in the press, they have all become, you know, part of the public opinion and fryingologists, as they have been, infectious from time to time, etc. Many of these publications create impressions. Some of them aren't objective. I would recommend that the press releases should not be based, but on the official announcements of the Ministry of National Defence and the general staff in order to form an opinion. I also cannot accept that the parliamentary procedures provided for have not been followed along this route of major armaments in the last two years. For all the supplies and equipment of the armed forces, the House was thoroughly informed through meetings that lasted several hours. All the relevant committees of the Greek Parliament were given full information. It was urgent and topical here that urgency emerges from the total lack of armaments in the past few years, for a number of reasons, it is not here to go into them. Along with the problems that this caused the supply chain of the Armed Forces, the principle of confidentiality and military ethics has been allowed, but extensive and detailed information always respecting the conditions laid down by the safeguarding of confidentiality for publicity. All Members of all groups have respected it and good for that too. But there was no information deficit. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] With a little tolerance, I'll say something in my dentistry. I think you can understand that this is a major issue and it is not exhausted by a response to it in a three-minute period. The choice will be made on the basis of the operational and technical requirements of the Hellenic Navy and of the operational lessons from the recent crises of summer and autumn 2020. In other words, to say it simply and to be clear without any misunderstanding or misunderstanding, we will take the ships we want on the basis of the suggestions, suggestions and demands of the Hellenic Navy. The Navy will tell us and we will take the best ships that meet our needs. It will be a decision free of burdens, no slavery, no commitments, no other calculations, what the Armed Forces and the Navy need. Further, of course, we have expressed our desire and the pursuit, so to speak, of the involvement of the domestic defence industry and not just of the shipbuilding industry. It's necessary, I said it in public too. We want it to be involved in building these frigates, of course, three. The first ship will be built, to any foreign home that takes over the job, the contractor, at the shipyards that we have. What does that mean to the shipyards we have? That they will have to come to such a position that they can carry out this programme and in a reasonable period of time, because it also means speed. But our aim is to involve the elements of our shipbuilding industry and the defence industry, because it is not just the piece of shipbuilding. We have interconnected through the competent agencies the candidates for contractors with companies from the domestic defence industry. There have already been too many contacts, more exploratory, to see whether the national defence industry can be involved. Our immediate aim is to do this. Finally, you know very well that the shipyard case is not an easy case. It's a riddle of decades. At the moment the future of both depends probably on an investment initiative that will literally change their future for the better. We believe that there are moves in this direction. It's not our job to point to investors. In the Shipyards of Scaramaga there is, as you know, a competition in progress and in Elefsinos Shipyards has been shown interest from time to time. I hope that soon we will be able to say something better. That's why it's not the Ministry of National Defence, as you understand. The Ministry of National Defence is directly involved because that is where we want to build ships from know-how, which I would say, will be transferred from abroad to the Greek shipyards and on the basis of the capabilities and competences of the shipyard staff. Finally, and I will leave little for my dentistry, the Navy is still considering proposals and solutions available. As I told you, it's a difficult, complex, complicated decision. Packaging is not absolute. We are also considering the possibility, if you wish, of being flexible until the modernisation programme is managed, which yes, is EUR 450 million after the adjustment of the data, as recommended by the Hellenic Navy and the National Defence General Staff, because we believe that the previous budget of 160 million did not cover fully and adequately the upgrading, modernisation of the average life of four. More, a larger budget was needed here so that modernisation would be real in line with the new requirements. Not all proposals have yet been submitted, in particular for the possible interim solution. So there are some, I would say, flaws in the files, but, at the moment, the evaluation process is progressing rapidly. We recently presented to the Prime Minister the operational assessment of the existing data and proposals, I repeat, on the basis of the operational and technical data we have in our hands, the Hellenic Navy in this regard - and at the moment the suggestion was accepted to examine further possibilities for evaluating the supply of new wells from six countries. I am referring in alphabetical order, because there are misunderstandings everywhere: France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Italy and the Netherlands. The proposals that have been excluded, that of Spain and one of Germany, have again been excluded for technical reasons. The boats have escaped costly from our possibilities, although they have fulfilled, as you can see, the operational excellence, which is almost all fulfilling them, and were, secondly, much larger than what the Navy is currently asking for. So the electoral procedure is in full progress. I'd say he's getting into the final phase. I think there will be results in the summer, at the end of the summer, and of course the relevant committees will be informed. We remain committed as government in the expressed national strategy of defending the vital interests of the country in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean without deviating as a minimum from it. Four wells and four other modernised ones and two intermediate solutions are ten boats. It's really the future, the body of the Navy. As you can see, it has to do with the country's presence at the theatre of the Eastern Mediterranean, not only in the Aegean Sea. Therefore, in terms of geopolitical calculations, we insist on what has long been decided. I'm just going to tell my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, on the issue of shipyards, Minister, there has been a choice between the present government and the supply of wells to the future, the viability of the shipyards. This is a choice of the present government. The previous government, as it did in the issue of the Syros Shipyard, but as it began to do with Elefsina Shipyards - and we are talking about the same investor - there was no need for a part of the Navy programme. Elefsina Shipyards are sustainable, as are the Syrian Shipyards, regardless of whether or not they will take part in the provisions of the Hellenic Navy. So with your connection there is a risk that if you do not get one of the two Scaramaga or Elefsina shipyards, something to close the shipyards, which you have not committed as government. That's the first. Secondly, you too are sadly occupied by the need to oppose opposition to opposition. Let me remind you that military expenditure, military expenditure from 2010 to 2015, fell to 50%. It was in the days of the next government that first stabilised and, secondly, it increased as much as it could be increased in commemorative conditions. It started and proceeded with the F16 program, the upgrade, in which to remind you of its involvement, that is, the Greek Defence Industry. None of the conventions so far signed by the present government is involved in the Greek Defence Industry public or private. Nowhere. There is this paradox, because you tell me about numbers and acceleration that exists now and there was not before. There is a peculiar acceleration that has been distorted, that is, the decision on Rafale was taken very quickly, and especially on the aviation centre in Kalamata, where we have also had a cost outflow in relation to the information that has been made here in the House, which did not need so much haste, we all know that. Where there was really a rush and there was an emergency, that is, the choices that our Navy must make, and especially in the chapter on fresh fruits, there is a very long delay. I'm glad to hear that we're going to make decisions this summer. Let's see if that happens, but you're saying there's a hierarchy of choices from the government - I don't know if it's also the Ministry, the government, but it's definitely - which is the least weird. Where there was no rush, quick decisions were made and where there is a rush there is a very long delay. And one last: Is there a Navy ranking for the options left before us? Because that's how things work. Or is it all in bulk? The remaining countries, for example, other than Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u9	I'll try to be brief in dentistry. First of all, I think rush must exist at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u10	Minister, just a minute because the colleague wants to fill in something. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, for two minutes. It's not just articles. Mr Georgiadis, who appeared earlier in December of last year, said he'd probably go to the American option. So I'm not talking about reports. They are members of the Government who disseminate various information.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u13	First of all, I think I've made it clear that the Navy will tell us, neither the Minister of National Defence nor any other Minister. The Navy evaluates ships. This is the direction taken by the Ministry of National Defence by the Prime Minister himself to examine thoroughly and thoroughly. It is a difficult matter because the proposals are very competitive ones to the other and have a tendency to make them more attractive as time passes - these are the good of competition - and it will result in the best proposal in terms of the needs of the Hellenic Navy, I repeat, for the platform that is the ship, for the weapons systems, for the electronic systems and so on. The best composition, the final product will be our final decision. It's just, as you understand, it takes time because it's a complex decision. Its complexity is intensified by the parameter of the involvement of the domestic shipbuilding industry. I must - I repeat, this is our view - that this programme should involve the domestic shipbuilding and defence industries. It is not like the invitation of the eighteen Rafale that had been rebuilt and we proceeded quickly. I think that was good because we covered a requirement of the Air Force and possibly changed the conditions of air leadership in the Aegean, since these planes came too quickly with their weapons and then their support as signed contracts. The ship is something different. You've been building something from the beginning, the shipbuilders. So, since there's this element, it's good to involve your domestic industry as well. This is our pursuit. It is a riddle because we want to solve the problems of the shipbuilding industry at about the same time as our decision. As I told you, this is not our pure business as a Ministry of National Defence, but this is the pursuit. From that point on, I believe that it is good to hurry at all, because we have lost ground and rearm the Armed Forces. Even if there was no tension with Turkey, I am used to remind our interlocutors, especially foreigners, that we should move on to this replacement programme for the essence of our old ships, the frigates, with four new ones being added, because this is why it is imperative that you do more than 40 years of age with ships. This decision is therefore a difficult and complex decision, as I have told you. It is necessary to take it properly, not only quickly, but also properly, so as to meet the needs of the Navy. Finally, everything will pass through the Greek Parliament. As we have given all the explanations and we will give some who are 'run', so we will also know where we are. At the moment we have ruled out a range of some eight candidates and excluded two - three in order to proceed to the final round. It does not mean that we have reached the contractor as well, but we have at least a limited range of candidates through which the final one will be chosen. As I told you, it will be chosen on the sole and sole basis of the needs as identified by the Navy on the basis of the plan drawn up, coordinated by the OHIM and submitted to the political leadership and the Prime Minister for approval. This is the holistic plan for upgrading and rearming the Armed Forces. It concerns adding new elements, as well as maintaining and supporting existing ones. I think that this is the only way to strengthen these and, of course, to strengthen their deterrent print in the Aegean Sea, in the Eastern Mediterranean as regards the successful defence and safeguarding of our national sovereign rights. That will make the decision and of course you will be aware of anything of interest that comes up with a horizon that I place until the end of the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the third under No 886/18-6-2021 topical question of the SYRIZA MP Rodopi - Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on 'Your commitment to the reopening of the SHELLMAN industry in the Industrial Area (BIP) Komotini'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Just a year ago, I asked this House for the reopening of the 'SHELMAN' industry in Komotini. I will not repeat the reasons. It is a modern unit, ready to reopen and withstand international competition. There is a sustainable operational plan and a deposited investment interest. Of course, it is particularly important for Thrace to invest such an investment. I would just add, Minister, the dynamics of the wood industry worldwide. Unfortunately, our country covers domestic demand of 80% with imports of wood products. But I would remind you, Minister, that just a year ago, after you recognized that there is a sustainable project, that there is indeed a deposited investment interest, you replied to me saying: 'It is a matter of a few days' time for the proof of funds to be checked, that is, the money that has been deposited and, of course, for the development bank to go ahead with the financing of the investment project'. Those were your words, Minister. You even urged me to come back to the House in 15 days to see the truth. So, today, a year later, you know why? For all that you committed yourself to in this House, unfortunately, has been disproved. The Prime Minister himself who committed himself to the region's reopening of the 'SHELMAN', saying that the matter is closely following his office. So I sincerely want to ask you, and I think that workers and local society are entitled to a clear answer. Do you think there is a sustainable operational plan? Do you still consider that there is reliable investment interest submitted or is there not, Minister? Otherwise you need to explain why a year now there has been no funding to proceed with the project of reopening the 'SHELMAN'. If there is not all of this, tell us what action you have taken to save the industry, otherwise you let the matter go, you deceive a modern unit and lead it to be sold as a scrap and most importantly, Minister, it is that you deprive Thrace of an investment that so much needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, I will speak with great respect and start from the last sentence that we deprive Thrace of a unit and deceive it. Excuse me. You're a SYRIZA congressman. This unit was closed all over your government and you found no solution for this unit. So, for five years you have ruled, have you deceived Shellman and have you been depriving Thrace of a production unit? Is that what you're telling me? Even the special winding-up procedure and the liquidator in the ‘SHELMAN’ has been chosen by your own government. So do you, as a Member of the SYRIZA, come from a government that moved the company into the special liquidation and appointed a liquidator to sell it as a srap and blame me for deporting the company on purpose? I'm so sorry. I would very much like you to withdraw, because I have worked very hard on SHELMAN, and I have to admit to this day not successfully, because so far no solution has been found. Why hasn't we found a solution? There's the shape you know where the people are and where they've put money for security and they're trying to figure it out. However, this scheme, although with my own intervention, has been in contact with various funds in order to find the necessary private funding, so far these negotiations and my efforts have not been successful. Until yesterday I met them again at my office for the forty-five times to see if we can find funds through the Recovery Fund for this operation. I'm very interested in the business working. I agree that it can be a production unit. I believe in this investment project. I agree that the wood is rising. I agree with all this about imports. But to do this it is not enough for me to agree. A private investor who will have the necessary legal share, because I imagine you are well aware that the Development Bank by Mr Drasakis's law is still not allowed to go 100%. There must be private funding. Unless you want to tell me to buy 'SHELMAN' the state. If you tell me to buy 'SHELMAN' the state, I tell you 'no'. I would also tell you that if the state were to buy it, it would be illegal under the competition law of the European Union and we would also eat a fine beyond everyone else. So buying the state is also politically impossible, it is illegal. But if investors come in - and I sincerely hope - and I try to help as much as I can - with the business plan and the private capital that the company needs to get forward, the Development Bank will automatically put the part that is relevant to it. Last year, when we had the debate, it was the discussions with a fund almost mature and they went for a prosperous end, and that was what I told you in the House at the time. Unfortunately, if you remember, the day we were talking was in the first steps of the pandemic. At the beginning of the pandemic, the fund went back, so the money didn't get in, so the plan couldn't be successful. Are we done? Oh, no. I'm still telling you in my office yesterday we were discussing how we could find this private funding fund that would allow SHELMAN to reopen. I haven't let it go, but don't blame me for indifference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u19	Mr Minister, a year ago in this Chamber only you had good words to say. Today I see you as if you were not the same. Completely different is the picture you give. I tell you this because you, too, have easily resorted to what is usually done by the ministers of government, opposed to the SYRIZA government, and you know very well, Minister, and the budgetary reality and the possibilities for such a project to be carried out at that time. But I understand, Minister, that you are trying this way, unfortunately, to hide the turn you are turning, to get away from the need to reopen this industry. I listened very carefully and you did not give any specific answers as to whether there is a real investment interest in it. I am waiting again, Minister, for you to speak very clearly about this. I say this because you are re-emphasizing when a year now when you obviously knew all this, you are supposed to take action to deal with matters. You will remember, Minister, that at the end of the year we met in your office as a cross-party. And then you said that we're very close again, that you're talking to investors. You realize that this way you are moving cannot continue, constantly kick the can backwards. I tell you, Minister, because if you really had an industrial policy for this sector, you would make use of this unit, obviously, to create a national unit of reliable dynamism that could stand in the competitive environment in the Balkans and in the wider world and to plunge markets. Looks like you don't have that kind of policy. And I am sorry, because, unfortunately, as you gradually let this matter be exhausted, you are unfortunately dismantling it, Mr Minister, and dismantling it, to be sold as a crack. And I'm telling you this because the auctions are closing on Monday. In September, I ask you, will it be with the new bankruptcy code? This means that all judicial commitments are removed. First of all, there is a risk that beer will be sold but, Minister, and of course, all the judicial commitments, which have been made for at least three years, will be made to most of the workers, which are obviously lost. So I sincerely want to tell you that you are disgusting the expectations of the workers, you are disgusting the expectations of the local society that it needs, Minister, from new jobs, from staying in the region. Thrace needs it, especially. And you and the Prime Minister himself who committed themselves to the agencies. I would ask you, Minister, to review your position as a whole. Of course I ask you, when auctions begin from September, as an old bankruptcy, not to join the new bankruptcy code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u21	If I understood correctly, my colleague said that the reason why the SYRIZA government has left SHELLMAN closed was the country's budgetary constraints. That's what I knew you said. Obviously you understand, this has nothing to do with reality. Because, I repeat, under the competition law of the European Union, the State cannot put the money on the 'SHELMAN'. If the state puts the money in 'SHELMAN', it interferes with competition and automatically DIGICOM will impose a fine on us that will close the factory. This is the paraphrase of competition law in the European Union and I wonder how you do not understand it that I told you in protagonism. Yeah, I was optimistic last year, things went wrong, the investment scheme that came didn't bring the piece of private funding that he promised to bring. Until a piece of private funding comes, the hands of the Development Bank are tied. Why are they tied? For the reasons of competition I have told you before. Because it's forbidden. If what you're telling me is I'm not gonna let you down, I'm telling you I'm not going to give up. If what you're telling me is to look for more investors, we're looking for the answer. If you have a good idea, too, I'd love to. If you tell me whether we have given up on SHELLMAN, no have left it is the answer. And I told you that even from the Recovery Fund we are looking to see if there the pieces of loans that are also guaranteed can attract a private capital, so that it can enter SHELLMAN. If you say that we want to sell SHELMAN, particularly the factory in Thrace, we do not want to sell it at all. I think it is a good factory, with good machinery, with great prospects, which can compete with both Bulgaria and Turkey on an equal footing. However, in order not to dispute for no reason, I respect that you have an interest in the 'SHELMAN' and I recognise it. I would like you to respect that I have an interest in the 'SHELMAN'. The fact that we haven't achieved our goal yet was not due to intent, it was due to circumstances, nor will I charge it to the pandemic. The pandemic obviously played its part, but it's not the problem there. The problem is that so far, in two different time points, and we have actually come close to ensuring this private funding, this has ultimately not been the case and we cannot afford it if there is no such thing. The Development Bank can provide money where business plan and private funding are available. That's what I'm trying to tell you. However, to the people I would like to say that they do not give up hopes, because we are still working and it is one of the issues that concerns me very much and I very much want to take this plant forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, will also reply to the fourth question by number 889/18-6-2021, dated a second question by Mr. Larisa of SYRIZA, MP, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Development and Investment, on "Protection measures for professional and residential leases". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you well know, the pandemic has brought about a violent change throughout the world and in our country. We know the support for leases, as do the owners. The question and the crucial thing is the next day. We have already asked many questions about the government's planning and its housing policy. Housing policy has two axes: first, housing leases and, secondly, professionals. I will invoke documents which, I think, will not be called into question. What did the International Monetary Fund say? He said our country was the most expensive in leases. Especially weak layers spend over 40% of their rent income. What have other countries done? First, in Germany, rent freeze was decided initially in January 2020 until 2025. Owners requesting increased rents must apply for a formal authorisation for this. Portugal: In 2018 the Portuguese Parliament adopted a Act on Housing. Spain: the Spanish Government has introduced strict measures to monitor the increase in rents. Also in other countries. Second, business leases. Recently, under Law 4795/2021, the rental in municipal properties was extended only by means of a one-sided statement by the lessee. But this is how three speed leases were created. The first category - and they well do and favored - the leases which expired until 17 April 2021, the date of publication of the law. Second category, rents in public property which ended after 17 April. And the third category and the most populous, the leases in which the lessee is a natural person. And you ask: Is there planning to be removed as a cause of complaint as force majeure, but subject to conditions? In other words, if he had a problem and had a problem with a wager - it is very important to prove the problem - to ban pandemic over a certain period of time as a reason to terminate the contract. The question, Mr Minister, therefore - and I am ending, Madam President - is that, on the one hand, the rents, which are of interest to private employees - and, on the other hand, there are specific proposals in the second instance - and, on the other hand, the rents, with a view to extending certain leases to the country's commercial world, but at the same time, they are tax-based, for owners. It should be borne in mind that many governments have already legislated to protect rents which occur in a large social problem throughout Europe, but also in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, first of all your question is correct and it raises a real problem which obviously concerns us and we do not want to deceive it at all. But since you refer to other countries or the IMF, we have to talk about it all. Firstly, no other European Union country within the pandemic and no other government has made such brave lease measures, particularly professional and partly family, as the Greek Government and Greece. I would remind you that, for the longest time in 2020, companies paid a rent less than 40% of what they had to pay. No other country in Europe has been implemented. And for most of the years now 2021 were zero, most of them. Nor did any other European Union country take such a measure. So you cannot compare laws to countries that have allowed businesses to pay 100% of the rent in the pandemic, with a country that has made sure that she pays 100% in business in the middle of a pandemic. And this case is Greece. And I can tell you that in all my meetings with various professional associations the first thing you say to me as thank you is our lease decision. I would also like to tell you that we are not a government that is indifferent to the future. I would like to remind you that by my own provision, an automatic extension was granted to all enterprises that were closed with a state mandate so that the months lost by the quarantine can be automatically added to their contracts to the future so that they do not lose any of their rights to the company they have built and so that they do not be subject to any blackmail, if anyone could say, by an owner who would now like to evict them. But always a condition: that they are consistent with the payment of their rents. Why is that? Because, my dear colleague, we have two parts here. We have the hirer, who certainly has needs and problems and obligations to put pressure on him and the pandemic that hit him. And that's all recognized. And because all this is recognised, we have taken all these measures. But there is another place that is the lessor. Let's not think that every property owner is no dirt he eats with golden spoons. They have back debt obligations, family obligations, taxes. So you cannot go ahead with arrangements that will interfere to such an extent that they will benefit one another, but they will destroy the other. Because you're just gonna move the problem on one side to the other. As far as your reference to the International Monetary Fund and the heavy burden of rent in Greece is concerned, there is indeed, but you read one paragraph. You don't read it right away. What is the cause of the International Monetary Fund? That in Greece the leases remain extremely protected. And what does the International Monetary Fund want? It wants complete liberalisation so that, in their opinion, the market can function freely and so that leases can fall through the rules of the free market. That is the explanation given by the International Monetary Fund. I imagine you will understand that this is a scenario that goes to points exactly contrary to what you have just introduced. So, yes, the problem exists. After all, we are monitoring the pandemic phenomenon, which, as you all know, is, unfortunately, still not over. I wish it were over. However, we are still at a better obviously pandemic phase, but evolution, as we all understand, will depend on the course of vaccination where we still have a way to get to the wall of immunity. Of course the government and the Ministry of Finance will announce a month - month - as long as the pandemic lasts for their decisions and when the pandemic ends, when we know the account, then we will be able to discuss the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u27	Minister, first of all for the support of leases, because you have been in parallel with the European Union, I shall disagree. We weren't talking, and we're obviously not talking about the same thing. I am not talking about support during the pandemic. I mean the fate of the contract, the future. And I ask: Mr L.4795/2021 has given the tenant the opportunity to extend for two years with a unilateral statement to the lessor when he is a municipality or a State. That creates, I told you, three high-speed hirers. We didn't think anyone would be hurt. And I ask: are professional contracts which expire this month, the other one, subject to conditions, not horizontally, to be extended at the same time as a tax bonus for the owners? Germany legislated before the coronary, Minister. I am not talking about support during the krone. He's got insurance plates so that the weaker can be protected. Second, the house leases. The proposal is for social residence, such as in Austria and other countries, such as Cyprus. In view of the new bankruptcy, there is a need for a roof. There is a specific programme by the European Union, announced by Lisbon, dealing with constellation with social infrastructure construction, Minister. I don't know if or not our country was involved. There is the problem, and I ask what housing policy is, the government's rent policy for housing on the one hand, at least for the weak, and, secondly, what the policy on business leases is if it could be removed as a reason for denouncement of the lease contract, the occurrence of the pandemic on a conditional basis. In other words, an entrepreneur who will not be able to pay the rent this month and the other person, if and if he proves it, to rely on force majeure - it was something which was unpredictable, I think you and me and all - the occurrence of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u28	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u29	I don't really understand what you're saying. The provision on municipal properties is not what you said. Firstly, yes, the hirer can make a statement, but he must submit business plan and investment plan about what he will put into the company to get this one-sided extension and, secondly, he must normally pay his rent. That's what it says about city real estate. You tell me that we're going to make two speeds, but you tell private property that he may not pay his rent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u30	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u31	You just said that. You said that if he invokes the pandemic, he won't pay. And who's gonna pay the renter? If the borrower has a loan at the bank, who's gonna pay it? In other words, you are now coming to the House and you are telling me to legislate to destroy property owners. But don't you understand that what you're saying is irresponsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u32	Minister, did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u33	But if you tell me to legislate that you will invoke the pandemic and you will not pay your rent in the property, who will guarantee you that it will not take place on a massive scale?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u34	Payment of the rent is a necessary condition,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u35	We're coming back. All our policy both in municipal properties and in private real estate and in professional real estate and in all it has two parameters: One aspect is the support of the hirer we accept has suffered a great deal of damage because of the pandemic and because of the acceptance of this reality he has received and receives for a period of time a very large support such as his rent. We have also given him the extension of the months which are closed because of quarantine so that he does not have the stress that he can suddenly be on the road, especially if it is a business that has made an investment. In the case of hotel units that are large, this automatic extension went two years to catch the whole period 2020-2021, that is, the pandemic period. So what you've told us, we've already done it. However, the state also sets a second parameter, not to resort to property owners, i.e. tenants, who are also our fellow citizens, have obligations and needs and cannot go and destroy their property. So we have a balanced policy. We're close to the exit from the pandemic. We're not on the way out yet. We're close to the exit. If our fellow citizens are convinced and vaccinated, we will have escaped in a few months and we will be able to design our policy for the future and will certainly take into account all the problems the pandemic has left behind. But our policy will be balanced. Both sides have rights, not just one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, can I make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u37	Here, you have the floor for just one clarification, because we do not have a debate on questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u38	Nowhere does the non-payment of the rent show that I claimed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u39	But you said to invoke the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u40	For extension, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u41	It is followed by the third under No 883/18-6-2021 timely question by the first question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To withdraw the vengeance of the workers in the JUMBO company in Heraklion, Crete". Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Jumbo made six redundancies at its branch in Heraklion Crete between 7 June and 15 June. They fired them because they didn't slap their head. They were just annoying voices about the employer. In fact, the company did not hesitate to dismiss a single parental mother with two children and even after ten years of service in this shop. Yesterday there was a tripartite meeting with the Labour Inspectorate. The employer has provoked these avengeous and abusive redundancies of six workers. What was the argument? That every year the company recycles 40% of the employees. That is to say whether these workers will be thrown out on the streets, as long as a recycling takes place. So this practice of redundancies, ends of contracts and goes by baptizing it, like you and the government, as normality. These are the so-called best practices in the European Union that you advertise, freedom to redundancies, flexibility in the labour market, to serve business needs, that is, business profits. And I would say that it was so challenging that the tripartite worker did not hesitate to say that there are still strikers working at the JUMBO. So he wants to tell us he didn't fire everyone, and that's a sign of respect for trade union rights. What's that? The fact that he hasn't fired the last striker yet. That's the logic. Workers who did not comply with these unacceptable working conditions were the first to enter the company's target. He tried to get rid of these workers because they organized through the club fought on better working conditions and claimed their rights. It is also a response to what you have been telling us all these days with the bill an abstention that workers can contact the company and good will of the company to resolve any problems among themselves. It's self-righteous! At the same time these redundancies are coming to serve business plans of the employer and are added to dozens of other pan-Hellenics on a rationale for this company to come to an end with old workers who have built-up labour rights. It is not by chance that these redundancies, which took place shortly before the adoption of the eight-hour-old bill and which criminalizes trade union activity, are not at all random. We are therefore asking you, Minister, what measures will the government take to withdraw workers' redundancies immediately, to stop this terrorism, threats, prevent trade union activity from being involved with workers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has the floor, Mr Tsakloglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Synthraki, on the subject of your question, which concerns, the redundancies of six employees in the JUMBO company in Heraklion, Crete, I will respond according to the information that the Work Inspector who held a three-way meeting on this issue was sent to us on this matter. In fact, in the context of the trialogue meeting in the APRC which conducted and audited the information system ‘ERGAN’ to see exactly how the company registered these changes to its staff. You ask what measures will the Ministry take to withdraw redundancies and to stop trade union activity from being prevented from working towards workers. Mr Syntagakis, in our country trade union freedom and action and it is enshrined in the Constitution and is protected by international labour conventions which take precedence over any of the opposite provisions of the law, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution and are regulated by Law 1264/1982 as it currently stands. Pursuant to Article 14 of that law, employers or persons acting on their behalf or any third party may not engage in any act or omission which would impede the exercise of the trade union rights of workers and in particular to influence workers for the establishment or non-commercial organisation, impose or impede in any way or means the accession of workers to a trade union organisation, require workers to make a declaration of participation or non-participation or withdrawal from a trade union organisation, in any way interfere with the administration, operation and action of trade unions and treat workers with a decent or dissatisfaction according to their participation in a trade union organisation. Moreover, under the same law, it is invalid to denounce the employment relationship for legitimate trade union activity. In other words, there is a causal link between trade union activity and the complaint. These include legislation on the protection of workers from the behaviour of the employer aimed at preventing trade union activity. Regarding the specific subject of your question, according to my information from the Labour Inspectorate of Heraklion Crete, the local agency, at the request of the Association of Private Employees of Heraklion, appointed a three-member meeting for yesterday. As mentioned above, following the submission of the request by the Union of Private Officials, the Heraklion Information System has investigated the information system ‘ERGANI’, from which, in fact, it appears that four forms E6 are submitted for a contract of employment and two E5 for a voluntary disclosure of workers from 7 June to 15 June 2021 in the Heraklion branch of the company concerned. So to discuss the facts, according to the APRC, we have four redundancies and not six as you claim. What I would like to point out is that in your question you are making reference to threats on the part of the employer and to preventing the trade union activity of workers. Mr. Synthyriakis, and here the response from the APRC is different from the picture that you describe in your question, since on the basis of yesterday's extraordinary briefing we had from the APRD at the inspection department - and I quote - working relations in Heraklion Crete, no further complaints or requests for a work dispute have been filed for the year 2021 for the 'JUMBO' of the region of Heraklion. For the outcome of yesterday's tripartite meeting - my time has passed - on the redundancies of the four workers, I will respond in detail to my second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u46	Minister, what can I say? I raise my hands up, they say. Talking about whether the right to trade union action is guaranteed will also laugh. Because you know very well that the agency has obviously dismantled with redundancies. And who gives this air to the workers' sails to unleash and even so provocatively? Aren't your policies? Is it not that everything is subject to strengthening the competitiveness of businesses and capitalist development, that is to say, a development which is equal to all the concepts of labour law, annuls, abolishes all labour rights and conquests? Do you now know what you're doing? On substance you put the APRC in front, use the APRC arguments to defend the company. That's what you did. 'It is not six, it is four redundancies'. Hey, answer for the four. You're not answering the four redundancies. But it's six redundancies. And it is now, Minister, that the company is even increasing 17% in its sales in the first five months of 2021 compared to that in 2020. It is well known that it is a group - a flagship, I would say, in the trade sector. It has eighty shops in Greece, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Romania. In these shops, therefore, there are conditions of constant intensification of work. We're talking about a four-hour tire hour time. So now to prove that there are no four hours, that they are not working exodus, that they are one month's pay contracts of 400 euros, with terrorism, with threats to workers? So how can you justify that? And when all this is legally covered? In addition, a new 'JUMPO' stores all come to the back of the workers. This so-called flexibility, i.e. changing and using workers whenever and wherever they need them, is now the permanent feature, not of this company, but of all companies. Changes are taking place in the company's program of stores. This programme is being learned from late and the next morning - take note, Minister - they are being called on to work earlier, actually squabbling in this way of family planning. And now we're talking about workers who are most parents. So in the tripartite, the representative of the company reiterated that the only thing that concerns the company is the performance of the staff, not the family status of the employees and the problems they face. They didn't tell you everything or you chose to use the EIA concrete things. However, even this criterion of performance she sets herself is disputing the employer with regard to the recent redundancies, since the workers who were in the target were well assessed for their performance, to get into your own terms, in your terminology. If this is not slavery, then you give me a definition of slavery, what is slavery. It's a modern form of slavery. The company, which has often shown that in front of profit does not account for either baby workers or personal problems, he did not hesitate - and in answer that the APRT told you that the company does not pose threats to workers, if possible - on the 16th of the month, which was the strike for the bill - abortion, to call the police. Why did he invite her? He obviously invited her to terrorize the workers of the store and the hundreds of other workers who were bruising in front of the shop 'take the redundancies back'. That's not terrorism, is it not a threat to the company toward the workers on a legitimate strike? And you're all putting back on this story. It's not just you. It's also SYRIZA, it's also the Change Movement, all the parties that accept these optimal working conditions, conditions of perfection and employers' terrorism. In any case, the workers won't put it down. It's really time for the workers to believe and show their real power. Because without them, no stores and no warehouse could work and no shelf could be filled. Intervention. Get the fire back. Get the workers back to work and take more measures. Part-time contracts must be full-time contracts. To be recruited in addition, rather than be responsible for two and three divisions on the shift each worker. There is a lot to be done in business. Don't tell me you don't see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would ask that we be consistent in our time with the relative tolerance. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Synonymous, thank God, we live in a favoured country and there is a specific institutional framework. That is what we are following, and it is not our intention to violate the law. And I hope that this is not something you ask me, because that is basically what you suggested in your question. I leave other things to be said, that the presence of the police is terrorism, and so on. That's your interpretation. I think in no favoured society the presence of the police, that is, a state institution, is not terrorism. Now for this legislation which explicitly provides for the terms and conditions for which a contract of employment can be lodged, the information we have from the Ministry of Labour's Ministry of Labour's Directorate, according to the Civil Code, the termination of an indefinite contract of employment is the right of the employer and the employee. Furthermore, according to existing legislation, the termination of the contract of employment by the employer is invalid as an abusive where, inter alia, it is dictated by humble springs which do not serve the purpose of the right, as is the case where the complaint is due to empathy, hatred, or vengeance, as a result of an advance in legality, but which is not pleasing to the employer or to the employer for economic reasons. There is also an abusive complaint when there is no cause for it, and the dismissal goes beyond the limits laid down by the law. Whether there is or if there is no such excess of legislation the court finds it to be, on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each particular case, and it is certainly not the Ministry of Labour that judges these conditions here. I would point this out, because according to the APRC it seems that the case is already being brought to the courts. In particular, as the Labour Inspectorate informed us, the outcome of the tripartite meeting on redundancies held in the "JUMPO" of Heraklion Crete was negative. Workers' representatives argue that redundancies are void as abusive because of their trade union activity. For its part, the company says that redundancies are legal and have nothing to do with trade union activity, but they have to do with their service. According to the EIA, the two parties are always insisting on their views, and their workers and unions will resort to justice. This will give a final statement on the possibility of dismissing the four workers concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u49	I'm washing my hands, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Synthraki, you may have the view that every labour dispute will not interfere with justice, but will interfere with the Ministry of Labour, but that is not the case. The Ministry of Labour has reconciliation mechanisms. They're the ones we used all of them. From there on, this thing which has been like Greek citizens and employers and workers is their recourse to justice. That is the procedure, and that must be the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second under No 884/18-6-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Integrated coverage of the needs for the registration of children at nurseries, Creative Employment Centres (CDEs) and Centres for the Creative Employment of Children with Disabilities (CDEs)". The question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis. My colleague has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the deterioration, the underfunding of these public municipal, child and baby stations is timeless and it concerns not only you now, as the Government of the New Democracy, but also SYRIZA yesterday. And it is found that they are far short of the real needs of the households and the number of children they need to meet. This programme for harmonising family and working life is supposed to cover acquainted needs. In reality, however, it covers a very small part of the real needs. The problem is much more acute in infant ages. This part remains completely inadequate over time as well as in the responsibility of the family. Equally explosive is the situation with regard to children's afternoon activities in the structures of CSR and CSR - CSR, as confirmed by the thousands of children who were rejected last year by this programme. The situation since the responsibility of these important structures for the child and the family has deteriorated in the municipalities. The structures are shrinking, private individuals take heads with the help and funding of the state, as the SYRIZA government introduced it with the wonderful vouchers, which you are continuing with. As a result of this policy, the percentage of workers with the status of flexible and opportunistic labour relationships, which currently exceeds 50% for children's stations, while in the structures of the CIDDDDDs this scheme is dominated by two and a half thousand contract workers at about four hundred twenty-seven CIDDDs and seventy-fifth CIDCDDs. As part of this policy of depreciation, of course, the innovative proposals of the government, such as the famous 'Neighbourhood dadads' programme, presenting it as innovative and that it is coming to strengthen unemployed women. It is clear that the Government, the European Union, the Euro-Union capital evaluates the modern and dense network of child structures with the necessary scientific and pedagogical staff and prefer solutions that completely undermine the scientific pedagogical dimension of the development of the child. In our view, the necessity of childcare must be scientific and the sole responsibility of the state. To be offered to all children, with all the necessary permanent multidisciplinary staff and appropriate buildings serving the teaching function. So we ask you, Minister: What are the measures that the government intends to take to enable children and baby stations in the municipalities of the country to meet all the needs of their children and families, and with what measures will you support the JAPDs, LEADs for the municipalities in order to meet the increased needs of their children and families? And, secondly, when will the workers as a whole at last be permanentised in the respective structures that are now hostages of the late financial programmes and are often massively blackmailed with the threat of dismissal by a number of mayors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I will begin with the issues that are primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. That is the question you are asking me if we are going to permanentize all the workers in the respective structures. The answer is no. And I'll explain now why we won't do that. We will not because, as you can see, this is a co-financed programme. It is a co-financed programme that means that there is money coming precisely for this programme from the European Union. Integration into a permanent status means that the programme is in fact no longer cofinanced and that they are paid by the state budget. So what you're telling me with this proposal is to lose about 270 million. I say we don't lose them. So the ESDP programme and the next programming period will continue to run in the way it is running now. Now, whether the mayors are being treated well or badly or who the mayor is being treated well and who the mayor is acting badly and who threatens or is threatening, what you understand is about the mayors rather than the Ministry of Interior. Now the second time you're asking me, I'm going to tell you that you know perfectly well that you're probably wrong with me. Why? Because, in fact, the Ministry of Home Affairs is simply managing the amounts that have already been allocated, on the one hand, by the Ministry of Development within the operational programme and, on the other hand, by the Ministry of Labour which is responsible for the operation of this programme. I will simply give you some information on the amounts involved this year. In this year, therefore, the specific programme called ‘Horizonising family and professional life 2020-2021’ has indeed been integrated into an ESDP of the Ministry of Interior. It has a budget of 164,980,227,33. It is part of the overall budget of the programme, but it was supported by the Ministry of the Interior by further grant from the "Philodimos" programme and by decision of 11-11-2020 with the amount of EUR 15,076,880. There are also additional amounts allocated to support this programme. There has also been an approval, as the Ministry of Development informs me, of further reinforcement of EUR 20 million. So what the Greek Government can do to support this programme. However, particularly on financing, because, as I have said, these are programmes run by the Ministry of Development and by the Ministry of Labour you have to ask the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u56	A first comment, Minister, is this: Do not throw the ball at each other. The government is united. You're a Minister of the Interior. The responsibility of the municipalities lies with children's, infant's stations, CIDS, CIDS OF LEVELs. You can't say you know the financial part is elsewhere, the work part is elsewhere and goes by saying. Oh, no. As a government, take responsibility. You are here to answer a timely question, so you must answer a full question, and I suppose you have made a relevant consultation with the respective ministries, otherwise what is the point of sitting here talking about. Watch out for a question I would like to ask: Is there a need today for more structures that will meet all the real needs of children, families, new couples? The answer is obviously and there is a need. You can tell us what measures you will take so that the funding, the responsibility of the State concerned, is to propose in this direction a solution to the problem. I say this because of what you have said now, but more generally, this state is now urban and its institutions are approaching this issue of social structures over time with the logic of cost. You say, "But why should we perpetuate this staff? In order to provide 270 million", as you said, in addition.' Yeah, give it up. What's the criterion? Aren’t structures to serve the needs of new families? I did not understand how you would find the 270 plus and so much more, and so much more and more to buy the Rafale, to give the businessmen right and left. You say 72 billion will get from the Recovery Fund. Where are they going? Because these social structures are not prioritised and it is a priority, I know, your development. So these don't fit in your development? Obviously, they don't fit. And I'll get you an example. The State gives 110 million annually for the CSFs. Indeed, the CSRs were accused, the workers - I do not know, in any case - of smuggling public money. That's what Mrs. Michaelidou told us. She says it's a waste of public money. However, the reality with numbers is quite different, and if we take the elements of the EBRD themselves, based on the vouchers activated each year in the CDIs, both local and private, it seems that 79 million were allocated in 2019-2020, not 110, 30 were allocated to the CIPs and 49 million round figures are being allocated to the private CIPs. In 2020-2021 75.235 000, in primary CDIs 17.5 million, in private CDIs almost 58 million. In other words, you are actually financing the private sector, that is, you are interested in financing the private sector, rather than giving it to support public, municipal children's stations, CIDUs and to permanently perpetuate this staff, because it is a precondition for strengthening these structures. So you want to degrade these structures. That's your idea. But fifty-nine thousand children did not get voucher while they were entitled to it. Municipal RDP funding has suffered a catastrophic precipitation of 43% since 2019-2020 and the current year 2020-2021, causing a huge problem. This is the policy of vouchers, which is naturally introduced by SYRIZA, as we have said and in this way legalised a reactionary policy, assuming that child education and care no longer exists as a social need, as a right for all children, but as a commodity, and any intervention by the state takes the form of a lottery of poverty with opportunityal solutions and with an end date. We therefore believe that these structures can only operate in a single framework - and that is why I say to you that the government has a uniform responsibility - in a common administrative form, with the aim of overcoming the current practice in which the structures are administratively governed by three different legal forms of local government, namely municipalities, legal entities governed by public law or private entities of the municipality. I say this because we need to ensure an elementary uniform educational planning and a scientific control of their objectives. That is our view. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you too, Mr. Synergy. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. If I understood correctly, Mr Colleague, you say: 'Okay, the 270 million coming from the co-financed programme, but put another 270, so 540'. Right? Is that what you're saying? That's what I understood. When you say yes to me, why not permanently, and I say to you that if I permanently, they come out of the program and go to Mr. Vessiropoulos to pay them the General Accounting Office, you tell me "yes, of course, do that". I ask you: What are we going to do with the 270 million co-financed? Are we gonna keep them, or are we gonna lose them? Because you can't tell me 'we're gonna lose 'em', what are you saying now? You say to me: "Put them in, give them 270 and get others with 270 million co-financed". So in a second phase I suppose you'll come and tell me: 'Now the next co-financed swamp and that's in, so 540 and put another 270'. Is this a serious approach to needs? Is he respecting the taxpayer's money? I'm listening to the second one now. That's why I don't want to expand. Listen. There is one point on which I think you will agree with me. You are an old parliamentarian, we have been serving here for many years together. It cannot be the Minister's representative. It is the government's responsibility, of course, but the Minister must respond to matters within his competence. No one prevents you from asking the same question to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Labour will answer you. Nobody prevents you from asking the same question to the Minister of Development. He'll answer you. But can't we all answer everything, because then you know what we're doing? We will come to read you dry texts that have been developed by the services and the substance of the parliamentary question is lost. So I do not know what you have to say about the vouchers. So what's your objection? Actually, what is voucher? The right to choose what voucher has to go to the private or the primary school. You don't want the citizens to have that right of choice. You want them to go to the municipal station alone, and you don't even want the municipal stations. You want state stations. Okay, this is an old, as you know, traditional philosophical and ideological confrontation. But I will continue to say that I support the right to choose freedom in the end what it has to choose between the private and the public, and that seems to me fine. I will also say that I consider that especially such structures work much better at decentralised level than at centralised level, and that therefore self-government is doing a better job and we must trust it. On financing, I think I was clear. This is a co-financed programme. I told you the sums which the government has in place and the effort that it has made with additional amounts, following the approval of the European Commission, because otherwise these sums are not allocated in order to strengthen the operation of these activities. I therefore think that everything has been made clear both for your position and for our position. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the first with number 885/18-6-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Union for the payment of retroactives for thousands of pensioners'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vesiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known and I believe that all of us who participated in the political system were also acceptable that the first social group to have paid for the economic crisis and the cuts imposed by the memorandums were the pensioners. Eleven times, pension cuts have been made, because for all those who have ruled these years it was the easiest solution to have cuts. The application of pension agencies and the decision of the Council of State, which required the retrospectives of the period of the second semester of 1915 and the first semester of 16, unfortunately, without the gifts and well done by the government in 2020, was backed up by these retrospectives. However, it is now coming up with an extremely critical and unfavourable environment in terms of impact on these people, because the government does not go on with the self-taxation that was in place up to 20%, but under Laws 4714 Article 114 and 4734, it actually creates a new treaty where this money will be regarded as income, it will be taxed as income. Workers are asked to submit two tax statements for the year 1915 and 16, with the result that they will also bear the cost of the money they will pay to the accountants who have to make these corrections, but also the suffering. The question is that there must be regulation, and the government must tell us clearly, because it is a sensitive issue. I am not in a position to omit, Minister, that there is a greater sensitivity on this side, and not on the other hand. This is an extremely sensitive issue. I think it sensitizes all of us. However, it is a loose end to which you must clearly tell us: will you proceed with a tax arrangement of up to 20% and regulate the special solidarity tax or go through the procedure in which it will be considered an income and can therefore be taxed up to 45%? I mean, imagine, if it's taxed up to 45%, what's going to be left to these people after all. I am therefore waiting, Mr Minister, for all of us to wait and see that pensioners are waiting for an extremely clear position to resolve this agonizing problem which concerns them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, I have answered colleagues' questions with the same topic, giving details. Our government has shown in practice that it respects court decisions on the return of retrospectives. And not only with regard to the precise scope of these judgments, but also with regard to the entire range of potential beneficiaries of the judgments in question, even if they did not submit an appeal. Let me remind you that last July we brought and voted for an amendment extending the reimbursement of the retrospectives for the ninth month of June 2015-May 2016 and for those of the pensioners had not brought an action before the administrative courts. I would also point out that the decisions of the Council of State Nos 1439 to 1443 provided clearly for a return of the retrospectives only to those who had brought proceedings. However, we did not remain in the extension of the number of beneficiaries for the payment of the retrospectives. By adopting Law No 4701/2020, and in particular Article 30 thereof, the Government gave a substantial solution to the problem with retroactive pension amounts for which pensioners were asked to pay tax. We are talking about a large proportion of retroactive pensions received in 2013 by the beneficiaries, but they did not include these amounts in their tax declaration, thus charging them a tax. In fact, there were cases where a number of tax-setting operations were made, despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in the declarations submitted. So what have we done to solve this problem? We have tabled and voted for legislation which allows all these people to submit amending declarations in order to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed in the year in which they are actually raised and not in total in the year in which they were collected. We have also made it clear that fines will not be imposed, while the imposed increases to pensioners who have been late in their first pension for their unreported retrospectives have been considerably reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u64	Minister, I expected you to tell us that there will be clear rules that this money will be taxed on its own. I didn't collect that. It is therefore an issue that is still pending. From that point on, everyone assumes their responsibilities. Also, Minister, there is a second issue arising after the decision of the Council of State of 2021 concerning seventy thousand cases of pensioners who have been fined, a proportion of whom have paid these fines and which are ultimately justified by the decision of the Council of State, which states that these fines should be cancelled, returned to those who have paid and informed of the restoration of this injustice. There are, therefore, two issues on which solutions must be found and you have not given them. I have recognised with political courage, if you will, let me speak, that the government has well proceeded with that retrospective return arrangement. But there is a crucial issue and you must answer it clearly. Is there going to be a tax arrangement by 2020, or will we pay 44% in the context of income taxation with two corrective statements? And there is also the issue of the last decision of the Council of State to seventy thousand pensioners who from 2009 to 2014 have been subject to these fines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. Let me make a report for a second. Today is Navy Day. We all know what the world of shipping has contributed, and above all our seafarers in the Greek state. In the last time of the crisis, these people were deprived of their families, could not be carried because of the non-flight of the aircraft, the lines that existed. These people have been caught in ships, but they still contribute to the global economy and the national economy. And I had to, and felt the need for, as former Minister for Maritime Affairs to make this report, saying that the Greek state and, of course, the competent organisations, the shipowners, should contribute, as the shipowners have so far contributed to the operation of ship transport and to the profitability of the shipowners themselves, also take responsibility for facilitating these people to return after too many months, which should have come to their homes, to come to their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u66	Colleague, those who received retroactive remuneration in 2020, which go back to tax years 2015 and 2016, should submit amending declarations. That applies to all citizens. From there on, I would like to make a few clear points to avoid confusion, always speaking with evidence. I would remind you that the specific tax treatment introduced for beneficiaries of the retroactive remuneration and pensions paid under Articles 10 to 15 of Law 4575/2018 clearly provided that the deductions were made for 20% of all other tax obligations, including the special solidarity levy. I am referring to the third subparagraph of Article 60(4). What does that mean? It means that there was a advance payment of the tax in payment of the retrospectives and did not need to be confirmed by the submission of the tax declaration after a year. The date of acquisition of the retroactive measures was considered to be the tax year 2018. There is no such arrangement for the amounts paid under the relevant GAAP as a reimbursement of private-sector pension deductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u67	To make a setup, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister answer, please. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u69	There is no such arrangement for amounts paid under the relevant GFCM as a refund for private sector pension reductions or for amounts paid under the relevant GFCM as a refund for public sector pension reductions. The joint ministerial decisions that I mentioned provided for the payment of the retroactives without any withholding tax and a special solidarity contribution. These revenues therefore fall within the general provisions of the general rules, i.e. the scale applicable to the tax years 2015 and 2016, in excess of the specific solidarity contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u70	So they'll pay 44% tax. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u71	Mr Colleague, I listened carefully and did not interrupt you. Please respect the time given to me by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u72	You can answer the question. Will they pay 44% tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Colleague, please. You asked your question and the Minister answers the way he thinks. If he doesn't satisfy you, it's another matter. But I beg you very much to let the Minister answer the way he wants. Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u74	The Minister will answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Comrade, please! Respect the space, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u76	Will they pay 44% tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u78	Everything else is to love each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u79	Mr Colleague and Mr Minister, allow me a comment for half a minute, please. There is a procedure, you are an old parliamentarian and you know it. You ask the question, I gave you more time, Mr Colleague, to answer and now the Minister is answering the way he thinks. If it does not satisfy you, Mr Colleague, you will ask the question again. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u80	He has a responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u81	Colleague, that's inappropriate you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u82	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u84	Thanks for the lawsuits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u85	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u86	Therefore, my colleague, the cases are divided, which means that the retroactive measures provided for under Law 4575/2018 refer to one-off amounts to active executives of specific bodies in the general public sector and the pensioners of these categories, whereas the retroactive provisions of Articles 33 and 34 of Law 4734/2020 concern all pensioners in the public and private sectors, in accordance with the relevant provisions. As I told you at the beginning of my position, the government has practically demonstrated its respect for the application of judgments and has also made legislative and institutional interventions to facilitate the beneficiaries of retroactive measures. In fact, the joint ministerial decisions that I mentioned earlier set out, among other things, the way and time to pay the repayable amounts of the pensions reductions of private and public pensioners. According to these, the payments were made without the deduction of income tax under Article 60 of Law 4172/2013, but also of a special solidarity contribution under Article 43A of Law 4172/2013. Finally, I would remind you that since these retroactive payments were made in 2020, they are neither charged with late submissions nor with late payment interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Comrade, you know there's no discussion. You know the process. You are such an old parliamentarian that I am impressed by what you are doing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u90	The Bureau should ask the Minister to answer questions, not to say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u91	Mr Colleague, you asked your question and the Minister answered the way he wanted it. From there on, there is another procedure and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u92	We're elected MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u93	Don't do that! I'm not honoring you right now! This attitude, Mr Colleague, is not honoring you right now, you know that. Please very much. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u94	We represent the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u95	Please. We must continue the process. Please, Mr. Comrade. We move to the second with number 872/16-6-2021 in the first cycle of the Member of the Rodopi Movement of Change Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Except for relocation - movements of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you know, Law 4692/2020, in particular Article 79, states precisely what the conditions are for students to have the right to make exceptional relocations. And when we say exceptionally a transfer, we mean for serious health reasons or other reasons as stated in the law. In the article on this law, it is a general provision and nowhere is there a ban on students entering universities with a special quota, such as the children of the minority, to exclude and prohibit their exceptional relocation. However, Minister, many of our minority students, trying to make use of this provision, have submitted substantiated applications to the Ministry and the committee, instead of judging these applications, decided in a non-legal and curious way that you have no right to exceptionally relocate because - he said - that because you entered the university with a special quota, you are not entitled. This, of course, is illegal, except that it is not provided for anywhere in the law, it also raises various issues of the violation of equality against the law and it creates other problems. The issue is topical, Minister, because at the moment the relocations are under way in your Ministry and the minority children cannot be deprived of the right that the law gives them. Questions are specific. Do you, first of all, agree as a ministry, as a political leadership, with this interpretation that your committee gives to this law? Second, what do you intend to do? Do you intend to withdraw the decisions as the senior management of these committees to annul them so that these children do not appeal to the national and European courts to which they will be entitled? However, the university will also have finished the ratio, the substance of the exceptional relocation which is the reason why serious, ill and economically present at the moment. So you are asking us today to give us an answer as a Ministry of State what is going on and why this has started this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. It gives me the opportunity to speak a little about a positive measure which has been in force since the 1990s in favour of children belonging to the Muslim minority in Thrace. It is the positive measure of additional admission to universities of 0.5%. What does that mean in practice? It means that, in addition to the number of children introduced through pan-Hellenic examinations, the state, the state, enables the minority children to enter the Greek university institutions at an additional rate of 0.5%, which means that they have a more favourable treatment because they have lower import bases. This is a conscious positive measure adopted by the Greek state in favour of a minority. We have many such cases all over the Western world where a state takes a measure in order to upgrade the minority. The proof that this measure has been positive so far seems in practice, as you only know one look at the chambers and professional associations and associations, the medical profession, the legal association shows that Komotini and Xanthi have a very large number of young people, young scientists who come from Greece. In my opinion, it is also the most important sample of the integration of the Muslim minority with the rest of the Greek society. In this context, therefore, it has been established that exceptional transcripts may be made available in accordance with Article 79(1) of Law No4692/20, which defines the special relocations, but as specified in Article 78 of the same Law. What does Article 78 of the same law say? "Registration right in excess of the percentage referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 75..." is the percentage, Madam President, which says that it is 15% of those who receive exceptional registries every year - "... have students who fall under one of the following categories: F. Greek citizens of the Muslim minority of Thrace who have been introduced into positions in excess of the number of importers...’ - is the positive measure to which I referred previously in accordance with this decision - 'in 10% of the total number of imports of the abovementioned category'. What's the charge above? The above category is 15%. So what we need to see is whether, in this case, we have exceeded 15% or not. I shall, however, return to my dennote on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u100	Let me start my placement in my dentext from the last thing you said. First of all, it is good that you recognize that Article 78 provides for an exceptional transfer of Muslim students even though they have been introduced with 5,7. You accept it. Of course, he puts a quota of 10%. But the minutes of the committee, Mr Secretary, and that is why we are here today, have a different view, your ministry has a different view. In the Minutes of March 31, 2021, which I will table in the Minutes of the House, as well as my objections, they have another view which says: 'No. You are not exceptionally entitled to transfer the whole minority because you have been introduced as a special category.' The reason for rejection is the introduction of the Muslim minority as a special category. It's not the reason for rejecting that you're over 10%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u101	Is F mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u102	Of course. You'll see it all, you'll examine it. That is why we are here today to intervene as a Ministry so that this injustice does not exist and does not create a precedent for other possible requests for exceptional students. Now, as far as the positive measure is concerned, I should like to say something. Indeed, the party I am, the progressive party, with George Papandreou, had introduced this positive discrimination. And that is a great benefit and the minority accepted it to its greatest extent with great enthusiasm. But I would like to remind you of a statement by George Calantzis, the Secretary-General with whom I agree. Look at what he says: "Every measure that strengthens the equal integration of Greek citizens and especially of minorities in Greek society is a constitutional, democratic, political and patriotic task. On the contrary, any political practice which directly or indirectly contributes to marginalisation and ultimately to isolationism will only hurt Greece and its citizens." This is the statement by George Kalanzis and I fully agree with him. But that's what's happening right now. From a misappropriation of the law, by a committee which does not apply the law as a whole, the students of the minority suffer, they lose the deadlines, they lose six months. There are people with serious health problems. You can't delay any longer, Minister. So, what's he gonna do? To spend thousands of euros in appeal to the courts, to be vindicated after all what? The legitimate interest is now. That's why we're here in the House. That is why you are a Minister for solutions today and not a solution after two months, three months or a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u104	Mr Colleagues, because you are referring to a particular case - it is obvious that this does not have to be mentioned the name of the person, of course - it is good to see exactly what the committee thinks. However, if it is a general rule, it is subject to provision F of Article 78 of Law 4692/1978. It does not mean that it excludes the Muslim minority, but sets a limit of 10% on the number of relocations. We must therefore identify whether or not the 10% threshold has been exceeded in this case. So I'm at your disposal to see it in particular. From that point of view, I agree with and endorse Mr Calanzis's view. He is a public minister who has been honoring his or her function for too many years, and it is a special pleasure that I have worked with him for all these years. I have to confess. To return to the subject of a positive measure, which, in my view, is the substance of the case, the Greek state's position since 1990 has been that we want and support the policy of equality and equality for the Muslim minority. It passes through the introduction of more favourable provisions than other citizens, because it is precisely the starting point of the Muslim minority for objective reasons that is often lower than that of its other fellow citizens, who belong to Christian or other religions or who are ungodly. So we're taking measures like this to improve the level. These measures, of course, will not be for life. It will be up to the level of minority to the level of the rest of society. At this stage, I consider it extremely important that, because of the positive measure, the flow of apprenticeship has stopped, which, as you well know, had begun in previous periods, even since the age of the First High School. They went mainly to Turkey. And the second thing I consider important is that these children, these young citizens, while in the first few years they were reluctant to leave their homes, were choosing the Democritus University or the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, for a decade ago, they have been spreading around Greece without any problem and the percentage of women has now exceeded the percentage of men in this category. In other words, we now have more female students than men, which was not the case in 1998-1999. It is a good thing that I have to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed and we are adjourned for the evening at 15.00 hours on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a debate with No 22/17/19-4-2021 on a topical and urgent question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be held on the number 22/17/19-4-2021 topical question of Members of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance Mr.Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos, Euclidis Tsakalotou, Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, Theanos Folios, Meropis Toufios, Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris, Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulos, Eleftherios Avramakis, Stavros Arachovitis (Doras) Aygeris, Alexandros - Christos Aylopis, Socrates Vardakis, Vasilios (Viadonis Kyriou) Vasilios, Aristouliou, Aristoulis Kyriaki, Ioannis Kyriakis, Ioannis Kyrioulidis, Ioannis Kyrimatakis, Ioannis Kosanidis, Ioannis Kosanisanidis, Ioannis Ioannis Kandalisiliou, Ioannis Ioannis Ioannis, Ioannis Ioannis Ioannis Kosilis, Ioannis, Ioannis Kosilisilisilis, Ioannis Kyannis, Ioannisilisilisiliou, Ioannis Kyannis, Ioannisilioulisos Ioannis, Ioannisou, Ioannis Kyannis Kosos Kannis Kosos Kos, Giannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Giannis, Giannisoulisos, Giannis, Giannis, Giannis. The reason is the first question, MP Kilkis of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance coalition, Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it has been twenty-four months since the New Democracy took over from a government with a Prime Minister, who pro-electionally promised progress for all and all, that he promised a European perspective of the country, unlike the anti-European policy of SYRIZA, as you say, forgetting which government kept Greece within the European Union. But this same Prime Minister, at the same time, did not hesitate to respond very conservatively to the criticism of him by international means, such as the BBC, that he had few women in his government scheme, saying that women are not interested in politics, and that another report by the election on the position of the woman was prior to the election, that Mr Mitsotakis had no doubt that the basic jobs at home are done and have to be done by the housewife. This highly conservative view of you and the Prime Minister himself came to be captured in the government's political plan, where the first intervention it made was that gender equality policies should be equated and integrated with family and demographic, global and pan-European originalism policies. Do not mention Germany's example, because it is in a completely different direction. Hence the rename of the General Secretariat of Equality to the General Secretariat of Family Policy and Gender Equality, and then the establishment of a State Secretary under the same name, but even today without specific responsibilities of the State Secretary and without additional staff and restructuring of the General Secretariat to assume the additional responsibilities. I submit to the Minutes relevant articles. SYRIZA doesn't say it, pro-government means it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For many months the only intervention you have had in your curriculum as a government on equality and family issues has been the introduction of a EUR 2 000 allowance for every child born, even believing that it is a great incentive to improve demographics, i.e., i.e. it cannot bring any more equality or affect the decision of young people to make or not to make a family, since it needs more overall support, both economic and labour. We also need to design policies away from civil stereotypes and we need a stable framework on the labour market for men and women, which, unfortunately, you are degrading your last anti-standard bill by day. Furthermore, it is well known that if gender equality policies are not implemented cross-sectorally, if there is no single project, which is horizontally pervading all ministries' policies, there can be no progress. And it would be interesting, Minister, if you have information today, to tell us about this EUR 2 000 bonus, how much it has helped to improve demographics or to make women children, who are your first goal, perhaps the last in terms of family. Then came the coronary. He showed inequality, racial but not only, he pointed out how and how affected women workers in the first line in health, commerce, care structures, have been, how they have been further aggravated by the unpaid work of childcare, elderly, and with the work of the house, and he has given a particularly strong example of another phenomenon, which has taken the characteristics of parallel pandemic in the midst of a coronary pandemic, that of domestic and racial violence. It was then an appropriate opportunity, during the discussion on the Recovery Fund, to make use of funds from the Recovery Fund to promote equality and social cohesion policies, as proposed by the European Union, to strengthen the network of structures for racial violence, creating new advisory centres and strengthening existing ones, strengthening public care and welfare structures and strengthening the health, education and care sector, which are mostly employed by women. You didn't do any of this. The Recovery Fund has no reference to the equal treatment and balanced distribution of the Fund's resources as in other countries. In the meantime, and what SYRIZA set up during his governance period, you are methodically pulling it out. You have ripped off the gender quotas on the boards of sports clubs, although the Bekatouros case and the organ sport has highlighted the importance of having women in the boards of directors, especially in sport, to support women's sport. You wanted to lower the gender quota in local government, but after the outcry you withdrawn it. You are calling for the only equality body, the JRC, which we and we have been serving for our days with permanent staff, and we have made even more of the work that is done there, equal to other foreign actors. And today you are entrusting research to doubtful external partners. You have heard any progressive policy that we have put in place on gender equality and on the fight against racial stereotypes in schools. Mrs. Jufi will say more. The 'LGBTK policies' are an unknown expression to you. You have done nothing so far for the LGBTKI community. You've got nothing planned at all. All you do is advertise, as if it's a terrible fact and feat, that you have homosexual ministers in your government. After a lot of trouble, you have brought to Parliament the International Labour Convention on Violence and Harassment and the European Parental Licensing Directive, but in such a way that they are extremely questionable to implement and that is why you have been judged in the debate on labour, by a number of women's and feminist organisations, as well as by the UNHCR and other bodies which have made their views public. With the proposal on family law that you have brought, you have shown how committed you are in the interests of this Chamber, even by members of your party, and you have not hesitated even directly to undermine the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women - we, Turkey and Hungary are currently in this position - with the defective provisions on domestic violence, which, Madam Secretary, today, in the case of Caroline, but also the case of Constantina Chapa from Macrinitsa Pelion, seems to be characteristic of the inadequacy of the reason you have brought and how problematic it can be for the custody of children by malicious parents, even of women. As State Secretary for Equality, unfortunately, your speech was deafening on this major issue and it continues to be and we are very sorry about that. In addition, international bodies have asked you - and we do not just say that - to explain this, since it has taken international dimensions. And here I will also present to you the letter from Amnesty International calling for a ban on GREVIO's letter and also the UN, which also ask for explanations on the law on family law. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, without second thought, you declare your participation and you grant your aegis to fertility conferences, extreme right-wing inspiration, your Government is on the side of Hungary and Orban in a law condemning homosexuality and just yesterday your MEPs, along with the Polish superconservatives, denounced as an unacceptable report by the European Parliament that characterises the right of women to abortion. Of course, all the above after a celebration you took them back, because of the social outcry and because of the reaction of the parties, but also of the citizens, which means that you have absolutely no plan, no political formation with a pretext and you are boasted and behaved by extreme right-wing and conservative voices inside and outside Greece, but, unfortunately, everything is recorded for you, especially in the consciousness of the world. Your votes yesterday, however, have been recorded in the European Parliament and I am tabling them in the Minutes for everything to be clear. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Against all of this, we ask you, as difficult as it is to you, and if you do not do so, we will do so when we take the country's governance again, to take immediate and effective measures to promote gender equality in the labour market and to effectively harmonise family and professional life in practice, to protect women's rights, with the emphasis on the elimination of multiple discrimination suffered by women's INF, women's immigrants and refugees, long-term unemployed, Roma mono-parents and other vulnerable social groups, even more effective measures to prevent and tackle violence against women in the family, work and society, the promotion of equality in education, culture, sport, the media, health, equal participation of women in decision-making centres, as a basic measure for our voice, the voice of women, so that there is at last, and of women in the decisions taken for us, so that the patriarchal voices are not outweighed, but a good man can show his father. And because, Mr President - and I will close with this - we are in the month of June, which has been designated as a month of pride for the LGBTK community, I would like to close by making a reference to these issues, saying that SYRIZA is loyal to his commitments and to his commitment to promoting the rights of all people and the LGBTK community, today makes public consultation of the draft law on civil marriage and child-care by gay couples, announced by our President, Alexis Tsipras a few months ago. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we ask you to open your eyes, finally, to see these families that are part of the Greek society, to deal with them with equality and, as soon as possible, to discuss the proposal for a law of SYRIZA and the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots has the floor now, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Antypa Adamatis, Gardikotis Andrianna, Ghana Via, Constantinidou Monica, Mavromatis Lela, Melaki Katerina, Blaha Fai, Bonia Heleni, Petros Angelikis, Tsapa Constantina. Ten women from a list of sixty-three women murdered only in the last ten years. Sixty-three women. Only, Minister, who were not murdered by either an immigrant or an Albanian or an animal, as the newspapers like to speak, but by fathers, brothers and sisters, by wives! Away from the security you say, when you talk about security, and instead of serious about security, you build an authoritarian identity to be afraid of the world. But because, Minister, this is a great scandal - we must remember all sixty-three women and we are all responsible for this - and I will criticise you, I will start with self-criticism. I have been on the left forty years in different parties and have watched the struggle and blood that women have spilled into my area to hear their voices. To be able to get MPs and MPs, to get into committees, to be able to hear voices in programs. They have shed blood - some of these I see here - and they've always had resistance from men, left-wing men, let alone right-wing men. So it's a matter of the whole society. So let's all start this self-criticism. But beyond that, we're not all the same. We can all adopt the graffiti that has become well known, where someone wrote on a wall: "protect your daughters" and they have written it and said "train your sons". Should we be serious about education? I am sure that Merope will say next: You can do this or you have right-wing and religious commitments that do not even allow us to talk about sexuality and how girls who are growing up from the start learn that they are different, that they are playing with other games, that they must help at home, which is not the case for boys. And how can children, boys, have violence and it doesn't matter and be competitive? We can have this conversation or it won't allow us, why should we just leave authoritarian identities? We will make a distinction about what we can do and I want to make you a divider. There are policies and retrospectives to deal with these problems in advance. Both of them are of importance. Retrospectively we can have our policies, see the effects of inequality for women and make corrective moves. You're doing this in part. You don't do it enough. You don't do it with fanaticism and self-renunciation, but you do it. We must also discuss the Recovery Fund and how the money is going there. We need to talk about gederbudgeting and how the budgets of all the ministers must take into account the female issue. But I don't think we can go on like this after the last few years. We also need to do things in advance. Marx says that in a crisis, the real momentum of capitalism emerges. We're not like the JRC. We have a different view. Of course capitalism exploits the inequalities of men and women, but it does not create them by itself. There are. And so in this crisis we've learned a lot about the pandemic. We have learned the importance of health and we have learned at the same time the inequalities, who is suffering from it. In advance, then, I tell you to discuss a new political economy that together with the digital upgrade, together with tackling climate change, will be able to promote the political economy of care. Do you know how important care in modern times, health and education is? Do you know that women in the majority are doing these jobs? And precisely because they are "women" jobs, they are mispaid jobs. We know that. Your neoclassical theory doesn't allow you, it doesn't help you to understand these things, because it's an individualistic theory, the person who has preferences, it's an autonomous person, and in fact, as feminist economists say, people don't blow up like mushrooms, but grow up with moms, grandmothers, with caring people. Women are basically psychologists from five, six, seven years old, because men for some reason have a lot of needs when they're babies, when they're children, when they're adolescents, when they want to make relationships, when they get married, when they become big people and women do. In this political economy we need to rethink what is important in life, what is the role of caring, who do, who do these jobs, how we can invest in it, how can we change this depreciation for these jobs so that we can in growth be treated with inequality, precisely because we are taking care with great seriousness. The political economy of care says there is no principle that a nurse, a cleaning woman, can't have good wages with dignity and has to get a hundred, two hundred, three hundred times more someone in the financial sector. The political economy of care says it is a huge sector that we need to invest for our future. The political economy - and I am ending with it, Mr President - says that here we have another view on security. Security is not just to say the inner enemy, to create the authoritarian identity to make a right hegemony who the bad are. Care and other view says security starts with family policies, but not only to give birth to women more, but to feel that they can leave their children somewhere, to know that there is a security in the neighborhood, that if they get sick there the care will be ready there. Security everywhere, both in the family and in the neighborhood and in the region. The political economy of care is trying to do so, to change the economic model in advance, since we know the inequalities that are created and have every capacity to deal with it, if we forget the right-wing ideas that the issue is individualism and the market and whoever can live in competition goes forward and some women who do not go forward will help them retrospectively. The challenges are great. There are great challenges for you, there are great challenges for us. I cannot promise that SYRIZA will do everything because I am not even convinced that women will be able to convince us to change the agenda from an agenda that is totally in favour of men, but it is a constant effort and we promise that we will do everything we can when SYRIZA comes to the government with a progressive alliance to have women in the centre and in advance and to deal with not only the feminine murders, not just the rights, but another social and economic model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. I don't think you've done anything wrong to me. You guys did great. We remain in the B1 North Athens Sector and SYRIZA and go to Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u112	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, when economic and social inequalities are widened, when work is dismantled and rights are being destroyed, the position of women is always exacerbated, and the inequalities which are already great in terms of women and, above all, democracy is affected, because there cannot be equal participation of women in politics, economic and social life within a context of widening inequalities and the destruction of every concept of a social state and labour rights. In any case, women in our country, especially after the ten-year crisis, but even today because of the policies pursued by the Mitsotakis Government, are in a more difficult position. It's 62% of unemployment. Most are paid either to the minimum wage or to informal and part-time work with particular economic problems. And the pandemic crisis came to give another bigger blow to women, as it widened the problems of unemployment and underemployment. At the same time, teleworking in the way it has been implemented, without any rules or an institutional framework for fourteen months, has hit women, especially in difficult family conditions, on the one hand, to deal with family affairs and, on the other hand, children in tele-education, many of the same times in areas which have not even had the potential to carry out teleworking. Of course, like our rapporteur, the first signatory, Irene Agathopoulos said earlier, we have also seen an outbreak of domestic violence and abuse during the pandemic period. That was a phenomenon throughout Europe, but we have seen it with great intensity in our country too. The policies that you are conducting, Minister, because you typically say about equality, and I believe that you are also well-deserved, believe them, but as Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos said before, when you put the formal issue of equality, you do not look at the substance of how this real economic and social equality can be guaranteed, you cannot actually bring about a result. On the contrary. You're constantly coming and making the position of women worse. And that is the result of the economic and social policies that have been implemented since the first time since the elections. Let's get them one by one. First of all, the liberalisation of redundancies in a labour market that women, anyway, as I said before, have a record of over 62% of redundancies, so it is also under the extortion of the jobs they accept to do and the very low wages they come to enjoy. The second issue. You have frozen the minimum wage despite what you have said, which, of course, affects women again. You have abolished any concept of protecting contract workers where women are the most affected with inequality and exploitation within the framework of informal forms of work and contract workers. Of course, with the Hatzidakis Act now - which we had the opportunity all last days to make here a detailed controversy over the measures you have adopted - you are primarily affecting women. And you even hurt them at a time when in a ironic and hypocritical way you come to say that you are bringing arrangements to balance professional life with personal life. In fact, you have introduced the dismantling of any concept of working hours, the complete deregulation of working time, the imposition of ten hours of unpaid work and some time a day's pay. In other words, you are actually dismantling women's professional and family life and increasing overtime. You come to release redundancies further and destroy every concept of collective regulation and rights. And that is not all, even in the positive measures you have brought, where we have seen that we have distinguished them from international conventions and the Community directive, even there, as Mrs Agathopoulos said, in a way that serves your own conservative and neoliberal policy. It is characteristic that the ILO's 190 Convention on Violence and Sexual Harassment - which was necessary to be incorporated, and we have repeatedly asked you to bring it - are making a number of exceptions to the way you have implemented it. In other words, it is no coincidence that you have completely eliminated all references to any of the collective negotiations, rules, arrangements, trade unionism, precisely because you have come down to the bottom of the incorporation to keep up with the anti-corruption arrangements of the rest of the bill. You have excluded workplaces which primarily move women such as atypical forms of work, contract work, agricultural work. You have even reached the point when the perpetrator of violence and harassment is the employer himself, there is no clear assurance, which even the national committee on rights has pointed out to you. In any case, the main concern of women's work is that you exclude all companies who have under twenty workers or workers. So you are actually excluding the largest part of the labour market, and especially those small and medium-sized enterprises in the focus, tourism and the commercial shops that women themselves employ. You did the same. Madam President, as far as parental leave is concerned, as you have said here, the directive itself did not require the consent of the employer. In fact, you told us that this directive on parental leave was adopted on your day. How a Community directive is adopted, however, it also has points of compromise and, obviously, the compromise also had this element, that is to say, that the employer's permission is not required for parental leave or parental leave. How a directive is incorporated is a clear will of a government, and here your will was to go with the individual contract without the employer's consent, so in fact you should come undermining a right that you so advertised, and in the public domain it is an undeniable right. I'll close by talking about the insurance. I'll say a word because it's timely. Throughout this reactive reform that you are going to bring, I would also like to highlight a dimension which concerns young women under thirty-five years of age. We have heard this presentation and we will have an opportunity to analyse all this. You came to present us with a narrative of the "individual pigeon" with various performance estimates, but as an example, a Utopian shape with very high paid workers and continuous work. So we understand that in today's women's economy under thirty-five, which is very low in precarious work and not in constant work, that this is a sample - and I am staying here because this is our question - of what this antisocial and reactionary system means that you are actually going to make a violent redistribution in favour of the few and major private interests and against the social majority, men and women, but of particular importance to women who are under-paid and without continuous work. I mean something and I'm closing. After five months, Mr Tsakloglu was forced to confess yesterday - he was no longer able to do anything else, because he has to bring a study to the House - that the cost of the transition would exceed 56 billion. We have been calling this systematically for five months. We didn't get any answers. We were often swept through, and now we had to confess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, and the consistency in time. Now Mrs Theanos Fotou has the floor from the B3 South Athens Sector. Will you use your dentistry now, Mrs. Fotio?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u115	Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Mr President. I do not claim that the New Democracy Government, on the one hand, because of ideological delusions and, on the other, because of neoliberal social policies, strengthens inequalities against women. Firstly, ideological decay is determined by the doctrine of patriarchy and is demonstrated by the recent law on conscientiousness and the congress of fertility and reproductive autonomy, as Mrs Agathopoulou mentioned, where the government would participate and you if it had not been cancelled because of the outcry in social media. It is this decency that comes from the past, before the Cultivation, which prevents the government from considering the woman as an autonomous, independent, proud person for her gender. For the New Democracy, women's rights and obligations derive exclusively from the qualities of a wife and mother. What if he doesn't have them? It's incriminating for that. "What was wrong with my life?" He said the spot! You incriminate women even for the demographic problem, promoting the idea that a woman is only completed through motherhood. This concept, deeply anachronistic and conservative, runs completely counter to the real situation of women in our country. Your neoliberal social policies, however, concern the social state: health, welfare, education, culture. Liberation and equality of women cannot exist with a defective prosperous state like the one you delivered to us in 2015 and in which today's pandemic is returned with your ideals. A deficit of prosperous state at times means that the wife, wife or not, is asked to take care of the unseen home care services. This is the one part of the famous care economy that Mr Tsakalots analysed, which is an obligation for the state to provide with structures in the community and, above all, the municipalities. In other words, a woman is called upon to play the role of child - carer, elderly parents, infantry, disabled or long - suffering members of her household. I believe that this concept has been dominated by pandemic, as does ELSTAT's data on unemployment. Be careful, Minister, why should you explain it to me: In the pandemic period, that is in March 2021 - the figures are from ELSTAT - women's unemployment is rising to 21.2% and men are falling to 12.3% from 2020. Now, listen to me well and explain it to me immediately, because this is unprecedented, it has never been done before, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, unemployment always rises or falls to two sexes. One sex first increases unemployment and the other sex reduces it. I'll tell you what's going on, what we're saying, because there's this paradox. I'll testify the paper too so you won't be looking for it. So what happened? A piece explained by Ms. Xinoyannakopoulou before. Just all the measures you've taken, the criminal policies you've made at work, one piece is that. The second part is welfare and education. You have not reduced the children to classrooms, and as a result of closing schools, you have booked the elderly daily care centres and the elderly have been helpless, you have booked the CSRs, the nurseries, the largest Lockdown in the European Union. Women have therefore pursued the saving of the family at the expense of unemployment and incarceration, because - we say again - women's equality is going through a powerful state of prostitution, generous benefits, generous benefits, free health and welfare services in the municipalities for all children, for the disabled, for the elderly, for the elderly, because otherwise the family budget is stifled in the air and the economic equation is at the expense of women, women. Because what she is making of her work is not enough to pay the people who will care for her family and thus the home is reelected. So I say, Minister, you will allow me a little, Mr President, that means free children at nurseries and CIDs. We delivered you a hundred and fifty-five thousand vouchers in 2019, you seated them in 2020, you left sixty-five thousand outside of CSR, now you have done absolutely nothing, neither applications nor CSR nor anything. So, again, you're going to start applications this summer. When are you gonna get results? I ask you: in August, to lose time? School meals: a measure of great importance for both women and children, you passed them, you did them. In any case, we have handed you over a hundred and eighty-five thousand toast, and you are leaving them there, because the European Union is pushing you to do so. We had a schedule that in 2021-2022, six hundred thousand children, all primary children would be on free meals. Will you implement it? Family Support Centres: We did, we ensured a hundred such centres from European resources, which were fully linked to community centres and which were to deal with family violence. You froze them. I ask you: will you put them in the front? OFELI Support Centres, i.e. integrated care of the elderly, a hundred and fifty again from the NSAs, have frozen them again in community centers. Are you going to start this? I ask you: there were 51 million euros of resources from the NSRF to create a hundred sixty shelters supported and autonomous living throughout the region. Again, you've frozen them. You know what that means? It is for those parents and the mothers who say 'if I die, what will my child become?' You froze them. I ask you: will it proceed? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - we have given you the flagship law of acceptance and adoption. Beyond roaming every day and saying that it is your own operating law since 2019, apart from saying all these things, how many women alone - alone! - Did they even take a child? These are invisible. How many families, which are homogeneous couples, have they even taken a child? None! And finally, there are those invisible women, the refugee, the immigrants who have been caring for years, our parents, invisible workers of the economy, the care - we say - no measures for them. In 2020 you did not invent the terrible thousand to them unless they have 12 years of tax declaration in Greece. If that's possible! And the roof allowance will be abolished, too? What a disgrace, what a disgrace to all these women! And finally, for the Roma - and I'm done - for Roma women. The Roma Special Secretariat, which was abolished on the other day when you were elected, had gone and provided European funds for the multicentres, specific assistance programmes for Roma women for the upbringing of children, health, hygiene and the Council of Europe to ask what? To abolish girls' weddings from twelve years old. Do you know that Roma children are 12 years old and are pregnant already and giving birth to children? Will you continue on this for a long time? We had made these moves. So where are these? Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time. I am also presenting the document I mentioned to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mrs Fotou, you barely spoke three seconds less. I wasn't expecting it! Mrs Merope Jufi, who is elected to Yannina, is called to Stepma, of course, by SYRIZA. Can I put on your period of dentistry, Mrs. Jufi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u117	Yes, put the unified one, if you can, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u118	Sure, why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we tabled this question two and a half months ago and, unfortunately, it remains quite timely. In recent times a number of government choices have given rise to even more concern and concern. I am referring, of course, to the conservative counter-reformation of family law, as well as to the 'conference of shame' to control the female womb, in which, although cancelled due to the social outcry, the participation of dozens of ministers and MPs in the New Democracy was planned. I am also referring to yesterday's decision by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to the European Parliament, together with the Polish superconservatives, not to vote on the report by the European Parliament that characterises human rights abortion. And after the outcry, after they failed to take it down, they came to vote in plenary. It's really a disgrace. At the same time, some time ago, the streets and bus stops filled with expensive advertising on the rights of the unborn child, a campaign supported by state institutions, church and ecclesiastical circles. The Greek society is appalled to monitor respondent gypsies, rape and the ongoing incidents of violence. In fact, part of the media is trying to justify the authority of the victims, to undermine the issues and rights of vulnerable women. "Swinging" means quite rightly the users of social networks. Society, Minister, asks for answers, but most importantly calls for an end to all these extremes that are now on the agenda every day. The government's responsibilities are multiple and, in the first few months of governance, the New Democracy's lukewarm or fruitful relationship with the issues of gender equality and diversity has been confirmed. Even here in this House, on the pretext of pandemic, the operation of committees, especially the Committee on Equality and Human Rights, has been undermined by the Government to lead to inactivity. It took the continuous opposition protest to relaunch them. Madam Minister, you do not see that inter-racial relations are changing rapidly not only in our country, but everywhere. On the contrary, despite your supposed modernistic account, you are constantly flirting with regression and anachronism and this is because in the political DNA of the Greek Right the doctrine "fathers, religion, family". You haven't been able to get away from this yet. The issues of equality are, unfortunately, beyond your control, dealt with skinally, just to keep up the pretext. This is evident in every piece of your legislation, as I mentioned before, for family law and just last week and for the law on labour. But Caroline's shocking murder once again brought to the fore the urgent demand to tackle domestic violence which is dramatically exacerbated. It suggests to all tons that physical assaults, abuse, sexual harassment must be tackled seriously. And of course we have an obligation - Mrs Fotou said so - to review the marriage of girls at a very early age, as well as any manifestation of racial violence and oppression. A lot of discussion is taking place around the term 'genocide', and this even causes intolerance to a number of people. In fact, alternative rightists and extremes directly question the term, vainly trying to mitigate the crime because of the gender. But in fact the problem is not a language or a matter of terminology. It is deeply political and reflects the effort to hide that this is the social-cultural treaty of patriarchy, which passes through the family, the mechanisms of social control, the school and the behavior of people. It outlines the peculiarity and operative cause of the crime, which is racial inequality. These are those who consider the woman to be the property of the father or man to have to have children, to work only in subsidiary terms to contribute part of the family's budget and to view the man's gesture and wood as compatible with the woman's role. According to UN figures, we have a hundred and thirty-seven feminine murders every day worldwide. In Greece we had thirteen in 2019, eight in 2020 and in the first half of 2021 four feminine homicides. It is therefore imperative to satisfy the request of the women's movement to recognise feminine law and introduce a new offence into the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a self-evident and natural task for any state that wants to be called democratic to support women, young girls, working mothers with all the necessary means. Let us ask ourselves: Do conditions on the labour market and the new law - an abortion on labour, the lack of public infant and child-care stations, general insecurity, problematic access to a reliable public health system on all issues, are conditions that ensure a better day for young women tomorrow? Do they facilitate them, give them the opportunity to create a family in any way and when they choose it? The answer is easy, it is a great 'no'. At the same time, with a lot of hypocrisy, we hear cords about the problem of the genitality that the country faces, and we think that with darkening conferences we will "collect" women to childbirth. Of course not. On the contrary, we drive society into a conservative strial by disregarding the major socio-economic problems faced by modern societies and especially young women. So let us take a step back, see how we grow up and discipline our children. In this area, too, the New Democracy Government has made full use of all educational opportunities to promote racial equality. The Ministry of Education pioneer in neo-conservation abolished innovative educational initiatives and actions to integrate gender perspective and inclusion in schools, abolished the successful institution of the thematic week and mathematical competitions that were warmly embraced by the educational community. He abolished the courses of social sciences and artists promoting awareness of equality, equality and democratic behaviour. Annulled educational programs for the inclusion of students and pupils. She withdrew the program "FRIXOS", the award-winning sex education program that started in 2015 in schools, although she was forced to bring it back after the loss of the protests. She refused the teaching of sexual education planned by the SYRIZA government, as well as the first tribal education manuals, and now, after the outbreak of sexual violence and its emergence in the public dialogue, her teaching was announced de facto, but without seeing any evidence of her being implemented. Instead of this, the Government of New Democracy proudly dealt with transgender issues by reflecting homophobic views on the LGBTQ community manuals, which are in complete contrast with the European and international conventions of the European Union that are oriented into horizontal and inclusive policies. Recently in the middle of a pandemic and quarantine, with students and students closed up for months in their homes, with unknown psychological implications, with tele-education having exhausted teachers, students and students, the Ministry of Education considered it appropriate and useful to ask each school unit to have approved rules of procedure. This internal regulation, according to the models of EPP, hides a number of prohibitions on issues of the appearance and behaviour of students and students who activated conservatively reflexive sexism and puritanism of previous times. It is forgotten by the government that what undermines the prestige of the school is sub-financing, shortages in human resources and infrastructure and outdated detailed programmes. It's not the schoolchildren's shorts, the colored hair and the earrings. On the contrary, the only way to build a school will really promote inclusion and democracy is to really listen to children and through their reactions to listen to their agony. I would point out, for example, that last week in Belgium, Minister of Education Caroline Desir announced that parents will now be able to choose the neutral sex when their children are enrolled in secondary schools. This initiative is part of the programme to combat homophobia and transgendering in education, aiming at strengthening inclusive education and greater participation of LGBTQ pupils and families. So let us compare it with Belgium. Minister, there is a need for substantial steps to be taken, starting from a serious dialogue, to stop the sacrifice of thousands of lives on the altar of patriarchy that maintains an entire world in Naphthalene, to fully implement the Istanbul Convention and Law 4604/2019 on Gender Equality, finally to give police the special service for the abuse of women and to strengthen the respective services in the neighbourhoods, instead of the recruitment of police officers for universities, to serve the districts that are currently licensed. What has been true about the advertised complaint platform? Immediately change the unacceptable law on forced custody that can give diligence to both a criminal or a murderer. The fight against racial violence is daily and long. It requires endurance and vigilance until essential gender equality is achieved and women gain their full emancipation in a human society of law, democracy and true equality. We're waiting for your answers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris, Member of the Second Western Sector of Athens, has the floor. Ms. Kafantaris, should I put the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u121	Yes, Mr President, and secondary. Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, in the short time I have, I shall refer specifically to the feminine murder and the role and need for action to be taken on the Greek police to deal with this issue as well. Unfortunately, I see that he is not a representative - Minister, State Secretary - from the Ministry of Civil Protection. I hope you'll give us some answers. After all, we have mentioned parliamentarians specifically several times and with questions about domestic violence, the departments in the Greek Police and the need to staff them and the answers we have received from the Ministry of Civil Protection were unclear. Of course, we heard the Prime Minister say yesterday that there would be a restructuring of ELAS. Something sounded like domestic violence divisions. We will recall, of course, - do not say that it is your own achievement as a government - this issue and these offices of domestic violence began on the government of SYRIZA in April 2019. With regard to feminine homicides, it is true that the more the word gypsy is called the fewer feminine homicides. I say this, for example, that this term - because it is probably called into question by some saying that it is homicide - has been in crime since 1972. The UN itself mentions it, and it is used against coral in the courts. It has also entered into the law of sixteen countries of the European Union. In 2013, Italy introduced it into its law, Greece, of course not yet, and it is also a request to do so. The evidence has been unrelenting in the last few years. From the thirteen feminine murders in 2019 and eight in 2020 in the first half of 2021 we have lived four. In the meantime, a very serious issue that also exists is the disappearance of women. And that is a very serious matter. The UN reports that every day thirty - seven feminine murders take place worldwide. The 2020 Citizens' Counselor's report on 2019 figures reports that complaints of equal treatment were raised to the Citizens' Counselor by 31% compared to 2018. Of these 44% involved gender discrimination. So there is officially a serious issue, and of course there is also a question of violence and domestic violence. During the pandemic period around 20% increased the incidents of domestic violence, which is a very serious issue - women were trapped in the same house as their oppressors - and many of these events that may have occurred were not reported and have necessarily not been recorded. At the Government of SYRIZA in 2019, it was created by the M.D.37/2019 Department for the Management of Independent Family Violence. This was directed to some extent by your Government - we must say it - in November 2019. Today these offices are in operation, but their role is infinite. The policemen who work there are not conducting a preliminary investigation. They're practically only keeping statistics. They are housed in the respective police offices as an internal family of violence management offices, and they are located in the Police Department and not in the Security Directorate of EL.AS. There are, of course, phenomena and we know that there are complaints and not similar behaviour with regard to the victims - although in the majority of Greek policemen, I think, with due regard for seriousness and responsibility, there is certainly no complete information. And we're talking about training issues. In a question we had asked the Ministry of Citizen Protection - not you - that is, that a number of European seminars have been held by nine people by the end of the year, in 2020. However, specific measures are needed at the moment. There should be human resources in the police departments, which are also involved in other matters, and workers are also responsible for other obligations. So there will be only one employment with these issues, namely domestic violence. They're subordinated to the police department, that's a fact, we see it, we hear it every day. There is a need for further training and specialisation of Greek Police personnel. Of course, as I said, we must also take an initiative, in cooperation with the Ministry of Family and Gender Equality, together with the Ministry of Health, with the Ministry of Digital Policy, Civil Protection and Education, to inform the candidate victims, the citizens in general, where they can address them. What shocked public opinion, the murder of Caroline by her husband, has gone the way of justice. We're hearing too much. Criminal populism must be eliminated and specific measures taken at policy level must be taken to address this serious social problem. Finally, I will say a few statistics. First of all, there is official evidence from the General Secretariat of Family and Equality that the calls to the '15900' in the pandemic - and now, in 2021, but the figures are for 2020 - have increased a lot. From a thousand seventy calls in April 2020 the six hundred forty-eight involved incidents of domestic violence. In addition, in March 2020 there were a hundred sixty-six, i.e. fourfold within the pandemic and the lockdown calls on the line ‘15900’. On the other hand, regarding the appeal to the Greek Police of victims who went to denounce, to request some assistance and others, based on the evidence provided by the Greek Police in March, April and May 2020, there were a thousand hundred and three people, while the corresponding period in 2019 was a thousand hundred eighty-seven. I mean, it's decreased, it's reduced the confidence, a victim's expectation that he's going to the police station to find a shelter. Because it must be a refuge essentially for every woman victim of domestic violence. What do I want to say and close? We must be serious about this social problem - and the causes are social first of all - regarding femininity. To introduce into our Criminal Law and this condition, to take concrete measures with the appropriate ministries and, of course, to take a step forward and to implement the proposals I made beforehand concerning the Ministry of Civil Protection, which must be decisively strengthened with responsibilities, education and staff in the treatment of domestic violence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u122	Mrs Rallia Christidou, Member of the Second South Athens Sector, is called at Step. Shall I put on your dentistry time, Mrs. Christidou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u123	Yes, thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is indeed very important that the debate that is taking place today, and we really hope that by highlighting the problems we will finally see and some things will be done, we will also see some of the logic of your government change, because also the context requires it, but above all, because our society needs it. This need seems to be seen in the exacerbation of violence, especially of the racial violence escalating from quarantine, from the continuous lockdowns to the present. And it is sadly escalating because you are not dealing with it as it should be. On the one hand, we have a total lack of policies to solve the problems, and on the other hand we have adopted policies that exacerbate insecurity, deadlock, unemployment and unemployment in particular of women, and on the other hand have the effect of further intensification of inequalities, tensions, violence and, above all, of racial violence. For the issues that we are discussing today, what the state did not do in the quarantine did it. Through the agony, forced conscientiousness, but also the sensibilities of the people of culture, the "Me Too" movement was strengthened. The artists demanded cleansing, reliving the Greek Actors Association, urged each other to speak. They gathered disciplinary, gathered the complaints, delivered them to justice, indicated in any way that this problem could be solved. What did you do about it? How did you deal with the pathogens of the area? How did you deal with these pathogens of your space, exposing their inner hearts at personal cost? First of all, they told you about occupational precariousness and that absolute labour dependence and, in such difficult economic times, it is a key stepping-up factor in violations and it is clear. How these behaviours will be eliminated, which Me Too has shown you beyond doubt that there are indeed, and which are not very few, the new draft law, rather than strengthening the control mechanisms and the position of the worker and their worker, leaves them completely exposed, for example, without collective agreements. Consider whether in the past some have had the power to blackmail either directly or indirectly, now what they will do. What do you think they will do when the new bill defines the fact that every worker and every worker negotiates with the employer as equal? Is the problem going to get even worse or not? The cultural sector was poorly strengthened and in a way that exempted the majority of the workers in it. Do you think it helped restart all workers and creators or just those who had money beforehand on which they could rely? Are these multiple exclusions helping the subject we are discussing today? The national action plan, which is supposed to have come out - which we are listening to, but which we do not see after all - what policies does it involve for culture? Where will these policies be, in what institutional framework, in order to be effective and not an empty letter? Theoretically you speak of the participation of women in sport. However, in the presence of this thing, the gender quota in sport has been reduced by the Aygenaki Act, which abolished the law of SYRIZA, article 25 of Law4603/2019, which intended to be elected at least 33% of one sex. This has been legislated despite the fact that we have seen in practice how important many women are in training and sport, and we have still recently heard the complaints of sport, for example, in instrumental gymnastics. And finally, while the issue of Bekaterou was raised, the Lignade issue was only raised after a huge time delay. Why is that? Is it because Lignade was a personal choice, according to her always assumption, for the post of the Director of her National Ms. Mendoni? The cultural area suffers and is tested multiplely. The pandemic and government choices in its management have hit the field of culture, without mercy, without understanding, without any interest on the part of the state, and this continues until today. It is currently 25 June and is given by the Ministry the special purpose allowance for April. When the people of culture, artistic creation, they were told that they were already working black. They were flirting on top of them. Beyond the five stars and the continents, the artistic space, the area of artistic creation suffers. But the world is here and will work and provide either the government approves it or not. So the central question - and that is whether you like it or not you like it - remains: What will happen with the many and unresolved problems of workers and these really and effectively tested people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Maria Syregella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u125	First of all, I would like to congratulate, because none of you mentioned this, the Greek woman who was elected to GREVIO, because we are all interested in the subject of violence, Maria - Andrian Kostopoulou. Elected Vice-President of the Council of Europe GREVIO Group. When we took over the administration, we were well aware that we had to carry out a difficult project. Firstly, we should take our country out of the European Commission's last position on the gender equality index, which was registered by EIGE - in fact, the last 2020 report, as we have said here in Parliament, was with elements of 2018, the report says in it - and clearly correct gender inequalities and injustices that have existed for years. We were also aware that we would have to face a war by make news, by distorting some things on which you are constantly engaged, by giving a party sign even on issues of gender equality. From this step I have heard Mr Tsakaloto speak of the women on the left. Equality issues are only for left-wing women. Only when they come from the left are equality issues? Isn't it for all the other women? From downtown, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u126	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u127	I heard you. Now I'd like you to listen to me. I think I heard you all carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u128	You're welcome. The State Secretary didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u129	It is known that when we received the portfolio in the area of racial and domestic violence - despite the important step taken by the ratification of the Istanbul Convention in 2018, which was also passed by us in the House and in the Bravo, while the convention was signed in 2011 - we were condemned for the ILO, which came immediately, because we did not bring it yet before, when we were the first country in the European Union and the eighth world that brought it. Also, despite the fact that the NRP programme period - financed by the network of the General Secretariat's structures for malicious women - expired, no extension of operation with funding from the European Social Fund had been ensured. There was no study on it. I didn't find anything. I thought you were going to give evidence today. I also expect Mr. Skourletis who was Minister of the Interior to tell us if there was anything, because I found nothing in my file. There has also been considerable delay in the area of women's participation in social and political life. No substantial, holistic, targeted political action has been taken with a view to mobilising, raising awareness, supporting women for their participation in positions of power, implementing quotas effectively. Quotas are a tool. If we do not combine it with other actions, nothing will happen, unfortunately. It is a very important tool, but in all the countries of the European Union it has achieved this tool because it has been combined with other things. Moreover, one of the main problems of the economy with adverse effects on productivity, as reflected in the report on the growth plan for the Greek economy, was the inadequate participation of women in the labour market. And because we are talking about data and I want to always talk about data, in 2018 it appears that the employment rate of women in full-time equivalent was 31.4%, while men were touching 50%. Of particular importance is the gap in the employment rate of women and men who have a partner and children 50%, compared with 79% respectively, where it reaches almost thirty percentage points in 2018 and is greater than that observed in couples without children, where the gender gap amounts to six percentage points. The most important blocking factor in the participation of women in the labour market is the lack of quality care services for children and the elderly and measures to harmonise family and working life. It therefore seems that the institutional safeguarding of gender equality, which took place at legislative level in 2019, is not enough. We all know that. Our country has voted 98% of the laws, but what about the application of these laws? That's where it's most important. Therefore, specific, targeted, coherent, horizontal policies and actions are needed so that the stereotypes and gender equality are overthrown in practice and in all areas of life, but in which you did not go as a government. It was therefore a coordinated cross-sectoral cooperation to incorporate the gender dimension in all policy areas, based on the good practices of other European countries, but to be good practice in other European countries, and so that they gradually begin to gather data from the EIC and from the United Nations, so that our country is also higher in its ranking on equality issues. Our absolute priority was to maintain and strengthen the network of structures for violence against women, which you did not - as we said - ensure. As early as July 2020, six months before the end of the structure network programme, we have achieved an extension - in cooperation with the Ministry of Development as Secretary-General at that time with Mr Skalko - of funding for the years 2021-2023, until the end of 2023 from the European Social Fund. Thus, the work and will continue to be carried out, in cooperation with the municipalities and the JTI, and the prolongation of this funding is of major importance for the continuation of the quality benefits of women in need, especially during periods which require the protection of the health and safety of all of us. And, of course, for the first time, there was no problem with regard to the payroll of the staff of the structures. For the first time! In the past, the biggest problem was the payroll of executives over a very long period of time and there was even a long-term delay in the payment of executives. So that was approved. At the same time, we have also provided time for planning and finding appropriate solutions for maintaining and further upgrading structures and after the year 2023. Because in order to integrate structures into the state budget there is not only one legislative provision, because we have written it in a law - where, as you know, we have agreed - and then it will be by magic. One must bring this to fruition. We'll have to get it started. That is why we have anticipated a study of the transition of structures into the state budget, from which will prove to be the right way of decoupling from the co-financing process, so that it is compatible with the country's budget planning and which, according to the timetable - here we are well enough to talk about it again - will be 2022. In 2022 we will know how this whole network of structures will go through gradually in the Community budget. Therefore, ensuring the network delivery without having to cease operation would also be crucial for the service of the benefiting women. The advisory centres continue to offer services of psychological, social, legal support, because this programme of legal support was also cut off on your own government. There wasn't. We started again in cooperation with the lawyers and built up so that there would be legal support. In fact, it was also alive and distanced, depending on the needs and possibilities of women involved. Guesthouses were still importing. For women in need of immediate removal from their homes, we have ensured temporary accommodation, immediate removal. These were given to us free of charge by the Hotel Chamber of Greece. It was in every town of every regional unit. Free medical examinations were obtained during the COVID with the "Smiling of the Child" for children and the Greek Medical Association, as far as women are concerned. And of course we have also shown interest in refugees in cooperation with the JRC. A special guide and newsletters were developed in the main language spoken by women refugees concerning the restrictive measures due to COVID and the available services of the network. Interpretation was available under the line ‘15900’ in offshore and Arabic. In fact, the European Commission - I am not saying it - in the report it published in March 2021 on the consequences of the pandemic on gender equality, the European Commission made reference to Greece for these good practices. The line ‘15900’ was officially added to the EYGE on the helplines for victims of racial violence. The new organization of the Ministry, which is being processed, provides for new posts for the incorporation of the 179000 line and the advisory centre of the General Secretariat in order to maintain these services gradually. In the context of an upgrade such as, for example, in criminal mediation, in the programmes for victims, in the lifelong training programme of the members of the network of structures and of the JRC, in the context of the social theory of gender, specific training of officials will be carried out. Also, through the program we have submitted, there will be an upgrade of technological equipment on network structures and support with new digital platforms and applications. Update - upgrade the database for the collection of statistical data. We have already found the amount and budgets. The services of the consultancy centres will be reinforced by entrepreneurship advice, as well as the design and implementation of a creative employment programme for children hosted in hosting hospitals along with their mothers, as well as the creation of child friendly areas within the advisory centres. Programmes are supported to provide free legal aid, representation on matters of violence. It is designed to serve in the advisory centre of the major urban centres of Athens and Thessaloniki with an additional social worker, who will work exclusively for the hospitality of asylum seekers and women refugees. A tool will be created to assess services to the benefits of the structure network and we are in cooperation with all public bodies, to monitor and to monitor how equality policies are integrated into their areas of competence. With regard to the part of local government, one of the first things you told us, when we were changed to the then General Secretariat of Equality, and we were transferred from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Labour, it was that horizontal policies would be lost, that the TICs and MAGPs could not work. From July 2019 until today, from the total of thirty and thirty municipalities in the country and in peculiar conditions that the pandemic had created, two hundred seventy eight municipalities have completed the establishment of city equality committees and the rest are currently in the process of setting up. On SYRIZA, do you know how many municipalities were? Not at three hundred and thirty-two, to be fair, because then if I remember, there were three hundred and twenty-eight municipalities. Fourteen. Fourteen county equality committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u130	Two hundred forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u131	He was fourteen, Mrs. Fire. It wasn't more than that. And it was a hundred, it would still be a matter. There was also a great deal of emphasis on strengthening women's participation in the labour market, where the gap in our country has not noted the desired convergence, but also on harmonising family and working life. The 'Dadads of the neighborhood' programme, on the one hand, provides support for working mothers and guardians to reintegrate into the labour market and continue their professional careers and, on the other, support for unemployed women, and reduce undeclared work in the field of care after they have been certified as guardian teachers. With OAED, victims of violence can be addressed either to the '19500' or to the advisory centres. While a large proportion is higher and higher education, moderate or good family status, they are unemployed. What has happened in the past to these women, so that they can gain economic independence and get out of the cycle of violence? Nothing! In cooperation with OAED, we have also amended employment and entrepreneurship programmes with the gender dimension implemented by the OAED in order to support unemployed women victims of racial violence. The mobilisation of the victims of racial and domestic violence by 40% in the improved programme and the second business opportunity for the unemployed who have ceased their business, while the programme has also been integrated into the programme and the employment of vulnerable social groups and is funded from twelve to twenty-four months by 90% of the total cost, wage and non-wage costs, up to 800 euros per month for a full-time job and up to 400 euros for part-time work. We therefore support women victims of violence in practice. The recent law on the protection of work has widened the scope of the equality mark to enterprises, while the 'SHARE' project is developing for piloting and obtaining the first equality marks in early 1922, while the same law incorporated the directive in which all these leave for mothers and fathers, such as paternity leave, as stated in the law, the grant for the first two months of four months of parental leave and leave for caregivers. In fact, there you told us that paternity leave - if I am not mistaken, Mrs Agathopoulos had mentioned it - is not on pay. But that's where we make some new news, too? Remuneration is paternity leave. Clearly! That is something that the directive lays down. He's on the directive!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u132	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u133	The postnatal part of the maternity leave of nine weeks is extended to foster mothers and women who acquire a child in the form of parental leave, the leave for the protection of mothers of six months with a grant by the OAED and the mother who adopts a child, as well as to women who have a child under the procedure of parental leave, is extended to care for a child other than the natural and the foster mother and mother who has acquired a child in the form of parental leave, and is established not only for the public sector but also for the private sector seven days for submission to assisted reproduction procedures. It also extends school-leaving leave, 10 days' paid leave due to serious children's diseases, and all licences apply to private-sector workers and to public-sector workers working in conditions of paid employment, because for us there must not be many-speed workers. No one had ever given any meaning to taking maternity leave, and that was one of the biggest problems that existed. We had mothers of many speeds. In addition, all working parents and caregivers have the protection of their acquired and acquired working rights, and various others are prohibited from dismissing them and from discriminating them. We are, therefore, strengthening the implementation of gender equality, by facilitating women's access to and stay on the labour market, by means of arrangements for the protection of professional and personal, family life - such as permits and flexible working arrangements - but also by creating incentives for men to make use of permits. After all, the European directive did not say anything about this six-month non-dismissal, and we brought it. The European directive said that they cannot be fired for as long as they make use of their permits, their facilities. No one would take it, because then he'd come back and maybe he knew they'd fire him. That's why we've been doing this for a lot longer, so that we can also give a motive to the dads to be able to get this permission. As far as the area of strengthening women's participation in positions of responsibility and in decision-making centres is concerned, you have already been brought by Law 4706 from the Securities and Market Committee. It's in the file, but we'll testify to you all, and we'll send it to you electronically, because it's too much. There, therefore, the quota measure is laid down on the boards of listed companies on the Athens Stock Exchange. We have therefore ensured the representation of both sexes, which is aimed at alleviating the racial inequalities in economic decision-making centres. At this point too, and in order not to stay blurred landscapes, because there were also some fast news in the immediate past, it should be noted that, according to the Committee on the Capital Market on Question 5 of the question, the one mentioned as Directive 2012/0299 has not yet entered into force and is therefore not a directive. It is a proposal for a directive. It's a proposal for a directive. It is not a directive to tell us 'the directive was, you brought it'. It's a proposal for a directive. In fact, a resolution of the European Parliament was also adopted in 13. This directive has not yet been voted on by an inquiry from the Securities Committee. There is therefore no European legislation providing for the quota. Greece and Germany, these three countries, are the countries that adopted the quota. Recently Greece, before Germany. Of course, if this proposal for a directive is adopted in future, it will be incorporated in the Greek legal order, as always. All of this I'll testify to in the Minutes. A quota has been introduced for the voting lists to highlight the administrations of sports clubs. In fact, the European Institute has given congratulations on this in our country. And these will be submitted to the Minutes, as they have come from the Ministry of Culture and Sport. We also completed the design of the National Action Plan on Gender Equality 2021-2025. The new national action plan is the first action plan which has been passed by a Ministerial Council and is cross-sectoral in all ministries. All ministries have concrete means of action, and of course it contains substantial measures for the practical implementation of the requirements of the Istanbul Convention. On Monday it will be 'open' to consultation so that the institutions and the citizens see it and do their analyses. The national action plan will be consulted for the first time. It's never happened before. And of course there will be the necessary corrections so that all things can be in the right direction. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like some more time. We heard about the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund has for the first time the gender dimension within almost all programmes. Not only did we for the first time put two programmes in as General Secretariat of Demographic and Family Policy and Gender Equality, and that was it, but in all the Ministries there is the gender dimension. It's in what the Treasury has testified to you. One of these programmes is the creation of storage facilities within businesses, such as placement facilities in the private sector, in the field of promoting reconciliation of personal and professional life. It is something that is happening in too many countries of the world. The project provides for the financing and modulation of space within the company in order to be converted into a safe storage area, and the financing of up to two caregivers for two years. The Hellenic Centre for Women's Innovation will rely on the United Nations model for sustainable development. The partner organisation is Norway's European Centre for Women and Technology, and this initiative aims, among other things, to design innovative actions that will enhance the attraction of more girls to STEM studies. After all, it is also one of the five main objectives which the European Commission has set in the strategic action plan for equality and which aims to increase the participation of women in research and innovation-based enterprises. At the same time, information and awareness campaigns on gender equality continue to be carried out in the near future and to combat racial violence in public and social actors. The extension and delimitation of the banned behaviour in the world of work is within the scope of the 190 Convention, because we said: not only to vote on it, but the next day to do so. Enlargement and a clear definition of employers' obligations, broadening of the rights of victims and measures to protect them immediately. As far as the APRC is concerned, do you know how many complaints the APRC had? Why did I ask: How many complaints have the APRC over all these years from women who are victims of violence or sexual harassment in the workplace? They're tempting one hand's fingers! I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u134	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u135	That's right! So what did you do about it? Because you told us that the APR was working perfectly in your day. Legislation has existed since 2010 and no one knew it. So in the new law that has been passed, the fact that there will be an autonomous section with specialised staff on these issues is very important is very important. The women - and the GFCM has submitted this to me - were addressing and telling them that they had no competence, and the law has been in force since 2010. It's too much, I'll put it in the file, for equality marks. The first thing you told us was why we were transferred to the Ministry of Labour. We have told you that this has been the case for many years, almost in all the countries of the European Union. Immediately after you asked why it is called "Family Policy and Demographic Policy" and you said about Germany which has it. But it's not just Germany, Mrs. Agathopoulou. Italy has it too, Austria has it, and they don't have it now, they have it for too many years. Even in countries where the area of equality is a separate ministry, even in these countries, it has been passed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the past. As part of the preparation and the 65th session of the UN Commission on Women's Status, the report by Mr Guterres, Secretary-General, on the implementation of the conclusions of the 60th session, was published on 15-12-20. In this report, our country is included in these official documents, which you can see - they are indeed elements - of good practice, in the ten countries of the European Union which have good practice and in the granting of paid leave for women who work for the sake of quarantine, teleworking and the closure of schools and nurseries, in the protection of women from violence for the period of quarantine, in the campaign for the protection of women from violence in the period of quarantine, including migrants, in legislation to ensure the representation of the two sexes on the boards of listed companies in the Stock Exchange. In addition, the 'Dadas' programme we have presented for approval to the European Commission is included in good harmonisation practice. This is in the annual report published on 5-32021. Also, the event for the Boards. the listed companies on the Athens Stock Exchange, so I won't mention it again. Then, some time, they leaked from the fact that Greece was drafted by a majority of the Member States in favour of the proposal for a directive on gender balance. I said it before, not at all. Fake news was leaked the day before yesterday that our country would not be in those countries condemning Hungary. I just want to tell you one thing. Hungary and Poland have issues with the Council of Europe, not today, but since 2017. In 2017, in 2018, 2019, it never happened - and please look into your files from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - no letter, no telegram from the Greek side on the issues of Hungary and Poland. Never. So don't move our finger. At least we signed up to the logic, and even long before Von der Lyen came out, and even before Austria and Cyprus. For one year you have told us that we are not interested in the issues of the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combat. If that's possible! With Mrs Vulture - and here she is - in the Committee on Equality a whole year we have devoted specifically to the Istanbul Convention, what needs to be done. You were there. Those of you who participated in the Special Equality Committee know that. You told us about the degradation of the network and that it did not open any advisory centres for our time. For your day, what opened, four and a half years? I'll testify to the Minutes. Athens Advisory Centre - Polycentre, 2012. Patras, 2012. Heraklion, 2012. Lamia, 2012. Tripolis, 2012. Kokotini, 2012. Larisa, 2012. Mytiline, 2013. Kirkura, 2013. Ioannina, 2013. Syros, 2013. Thessaloniki, 2013. Kozani, 2013. Piraeus, 2014. From the board of directors, Ms. Agathopoulos, no advisory center was opened. But you come here and move our hand, that we didn't open. Everything, and the rest, here it is. From the vast majority of the forty - three consultancy centers, two opened up over your days to municipalities and closed a hostel. For today, we have opened up an advisory centre, and at the same time we are studying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u136	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u137	Salamis. And there's a study to get through the whole network. So don't move our hand, because you haven't done anything on these matters. You say it very well, but "fake words, the big words, everything from our very first milk", "to do nothing", "to apply nothing. Equality is in practice, not in fine words. Structure workers have been unpaid for months and I submit in the Minutes the letter of the EDPS workers who have been protesting for five months in 2016 that they are unpaid. When we arrived, for six months, the workers were unpaid by the Ministry of the Interior and even though all these bureaucratic procedures were in place, the workers for the first time are paid on time. The degradation of the General Secretariat was for your day, because you did State Secretary for the Interior and put together the Directorate for Urban and Municipal Affairs. A feature, therefore, of your evenings to upgrade equality policies was what Mrs Chrysovelonis said to Parliament in March 8, 2019: “We ensure the sustainability of the structures of the General Secretariat...”, I have not seen it anywhere, “and of the CCI, which are transformed into pro-active. We maintain their human resources and valuable experience with funding from the state budget." Where's he? Preferential structures for consultancy centres? I'll testify to that, too, and look at it. Mrs. Chrysosvelloni has said it. Degradation is the professedly competent minister at that time for the purpose of converting the structures, and therefore, to prosthetics, something that is expressly prohibited by the Istanbul Convention, since abuse does not know either social or economic strata, and all women who are subject to violence, regardless of economic criteria, must have access to these structures. You'll see, Miss Fotio. Because the ban on violence is based on fundamental human rights for the protection of life and dignity. If these structures become pro-active, they will not have access to the abused women who had economic dependency and violence from their partner. So the Istanbul Convention by you was in danger. He wasn't in danger from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u138	Who? If, if, if...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u139	You'll see, Mr. Skourlet. But it's gonna happen. Everything we've said so far has been done. The government is accused of obscure and concealing violence against women when with this government, with us, it started "Me Too". If you remember, the head start took place at an event organized by Mr.Avgenakis in "Stop Silence", which was during the Greek Presidency in the Council of Europe. They've already testified from the Ministry of Sports. In the cultural sector, too, the reaction was immediate. On January 28, 2021, before any other issue was raised, the Ministry of Culture announced that it was moving forward in the creation and adoption of a code of conduct. When was a code of conduct in public bodies in the past? The ‘MeToo’ platform was created, where each and every one can be informed of their rights. It has been heard that we do not care about the public sector, that there is nothing there, whereas within the recent law passed there is a system of internal control of the public sector, with the advisor to the public administration and other provisions. For the first time, there is in the public sector. Greece also referred to the emergency measures taken during the pandemic as regards the victims of domestic violence. We are accused of covering up violence and harassment by the same people who had not done anything. So you're telling us about the feminine murder. But you have passed a Criminal Code, if I remember, and indeed Mr. Kontonis's statements have all gone, he says, shortly after that, that the elections - I did not say it, Mr. Kontonis said it - went further than that, because you had to bring the Criminal Code, which reduced the sentences of rape! You've reduced the sentences of rape and come here and shake our hand for feminine murders! Do you want me to say how many feminine homicides were committed in 2015, 2016, in 2017? We have all the evidence. It's not a new phenomenon, there's been years. Don't tell me about the feminine murders in Venezuela, you don't have to. Finally, a demography portfolio for the family. SYRIZA, the then State Secretary for the Interior, responsible for the General Secretariat of Equality and the Urban and Municipal Situation, at a conference of the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry on “Policies to address the demographic issue”, stated that the demographic issue, the demographic issue, the infertility, the infertility, must be central to the policy of a government and that the woman, mother, working, who is the main pillar of the family, should be supported, stressing that the state should stand on the side of the family and create appropriate conditions. That's what you tell us. It's conservative. What happened here? Who was the Undersecretary? Was that ours? It was yours. What can I say? In her own speech, Mrs Chrysovelonis mentioned as an example of women's support for the introduced remuneration leave made at the time at Law4604 for workers who have been subject to medically assisted reproduction methods. This is also political hypocrisy and agitation, in any case, and you really change...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u140	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u141	Mrs. Fotou, I heard you. I have heard you and, indeed, with respect and patience. I heard what you said, you should listen to me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u142	...does not answer our questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u143	Besides, Mrs. Fotio, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u144	You don't sound and I don't hear you answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u145	So many questions we asked, will you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u146	I don't know if he's answering you, he's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u147	In closing, we have therefore exceeded the level of the embassy notices. Nice talk, but the point is we're doing it. He was here and Mr. Tsakalotos, an economist, knows that the vision alone is not enough, it also needs a strategic plan, so that we can then implement things. We are now creating good practices, and in unprecedented circumstances - with pandemic - and, because we are a modern European democratic government, we would never be able to take advantage of tragic events and give parties a sign of human rights for reasons of micropolitical controversy. To us, gender equality and the fight against racial violence are issues of fundamental human rights in a rule of law and we will continue to produce equality policies for all and all, with respect for our international and European commitments, without ideological clashes. We do not divide women, as far as gender equality is concerned, depending on whether they are on the left, on the centre or on the right, we are for all Greek women, for all Greeks and, of course, without any housing and without social and any other form of discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. He gave a number of answers from the State Secretary, Mrs. Fotio. Now, if he didn't give you what to do! But he answered. What answers the world has given will judge. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I am not underestimating your political presence at all, but this question has been addressed to six Ministries: Labour, Economics, Interior, Education, Civil Protection, Culture and Sport. Your colleagues thought that you could adequately cover all these ministries, but, in our opinion, it is an actual degradation of today's debate, which is not only related to the quality and content of your answers, but is also confirmed by your actions and by the statements of your officials, the world, at the moment, which is the key force of the government and your parliamentary group, which is a very important one. And that, you know, is not dealt with by hiding behind European directives, because that is what you have done. In a mastery way, you have concealed all the contentious issues behind the incorporation of the necessary European directives. You recently did this trick during the discussion of the Ministry of Labour's bill, where you called us on one hand - and you put it in roll-call vote, see if you would vote - and when we voted, why did I tell you from the first day, did you tell us why you were denounced the bill? Because someone else was his core. But, in any case, we have seen these. I think, however, that, despite your efforts to convince us that the transfer of the General Secretariat on Gender Equality from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Home Affairs and, above all, its rename was something that facilitates political intervention on gender equality, in our view is a deeply ideological issue. Because it is not possible to curtail the policy on these issues only in matters relating to family and demographic issues. And that's what it looks like. If anyone listened to you, disfellowshipped from what we've lived in the last few months, the last few days and the last few weeks in Greek society - and unfortunately there were a lot - he would say: What a terrible country is this? What good practices you have invoked too many times. Except that in all European averages we are underneath as a country, yes or no? We're underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u150	With 2018 figures?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u151	By way of information from 2018, the data shall be actual and up-to-date. That's what this is about. And frankly, if we had not experienced the shocking events of the Sweet Waters, if we had not seen the murder of Topalude, if we had not seen the incident of rape in the Petrala, one would think, the giant and Romanian movement authentic "Me Too", that we are living in a country that all we say is history of our grandparents and grandparents. But that's not the case. It's not like that, and even though you've said too much, you said only one truth. That, in fact, it is not only the legislative framework if you do not create a corresponding concept, culture in your society, in your own practice, in the way you live, in the way you do, in the way you are doing in education itself, and that is where Mrs Jufi has shown you the anachronistic perception, a backward concept, in relation to the curriculum that you have introduced. Everyone remembers that the MPs from your wing, when we were discussing - because we have to understand what we are voting on every time - the conspiracy bill, they said that, in any case, and this husband who may strike and mistreat his wife may be a good father. Is it random? I wish. But I fear that, despite the persistent and several communication efforts of the Prime Minister's staff to display a progressive, modern profile, this is drowned in the anachronistic perceptions and opinions that are often ejected by your officials. And your MEPs came by the day before yesterday to vote against the right to abortion and understand their gafa, or someone told them from here "reinstate" and began to speak of other kinds of resolutions, in return for this anachronistic and meticulous attitude. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the issues are indeed related to the efforts which we all have to take as a society to respond to stereotypes, to darkening perceptions. You told us here - and it really made a terrible impression on how you invoked it - the fact that it concerned the division of powers after the last reshaping of the SYRIZA government in Mrs Chrysaulis, that she had undertaken, in addition to the issues relating to gender equality and the Civil Responsibility Directorate. What does the Prime Minister have to do with the powers? And you submitted this to me as a document, when we discussed the Ministry of Labour's bill last week, and I say that the State Secretary obviously did not understand. You told us, for example, that there were a few complaints in the APRC. So what? What does that mean, that there is no problem in society? And you say it as a woman, who should just have your word surpassed the formal references and become a correct preacher of all the negative situations and experiences that a woman feels in her work, in her family? And obviously it is not just about left women, it is not only about the left and left women, it is not just about the unemployed or the poor women. There is an orderlyness in these issues, although they experience them and those who are in the lower layers of the social pyramid in a more intense manner. However, you did not comment on the table presented to you by Mrs Fotio, which shows that during the pandemic period the first women were fired. Unfortunately, as in all economic crises, women are the first to be fired and the last to be recruited. A very old slogan, but it is timeless and still exist. So why are you saying they were kicked out? First of all, because the position of women in production is more vulnerable, and still for the same job not to have the same pay. Don't deny that, no matter how many exceptions you present to us here. Don't deny it. And don't try to vomit reality, because then you don't serve what you are committed to, to a General Secretariat that should have a degree of sensitivity to this kind of social phenomena. Women, therefore, were made redundant during the pandemic period, either because they are always the first to lose their jobs or because they were asked to sit at home, to look at children from non-regulated kindergartens, from non-working kindergartens, because as a government you also made sure to break this record of closed universities, of closed educational institutions from all other European countries. And you come down here to manage the pandemic properly, that you're not doing anything? In fact, what practical measure has been added, based on the experience of more than one year of pandemic, which you have incorporated into the measures to be taken for education next September that will be reopened? What is it? None, nothing. Because you do not regard these as priorities. Priority for you is anything that can be linked to serving market and profitability laws. This has been seen in too many areas. Unfortunately, we have said so and it is a pity to hear from the Prime Minister himself when he refers to the critical area of the public health system. It now repeats what it said before the pandemic about the need for a settlement - that word seems to be wearing too much - relations between the public sector and the private sector. He is the Prime Minister himself who has linked his name to the closure of certain health structures, when he was Minister of Administrative Reconstruction before 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you were not the first government to discover the need and promote programmes for female entrepreneurship. Nobody's been listening to you like he hasn't lived in decades. The question is this. These programmes are not only to absorb corresponding European resources, but to be able to create such production units that resist the crisis. Because it would be important with a statistic to see which of these business activities they have been, they have lived. So you see that the issues are much more comprehensive and have too many aspects. Why did you reduce the quota requirement for self-government, the law that had been passed in relation to voting on the lists? Why are you reducing the number of women listed on the Stock Exchange in relation to companies and the share of women in European realities in the administrations of these companies? And you came to tell us and move the finger - you told us that we were moving the finger, but so many times that you moved the finger, I suggest you watch the video when you go home, from your intervention - tell us, listen - listen, only four of the municipalities, the thirty-two now, had created equality committees. First of all, you forget that today's adaptation of the municipalities to the requirements of the law took place on the basis of a law passed on to Minister Haritsis at the Ministry of the Interior when I was gone. Yes or no? That's not your law. We started him, we voted for him. The municipalities are here to adapt to the legal check. But still you should know something. The municipalities must operate - and so is the Constitution - with a certain degree of self-interest. I cannot give up on you if Mayor Falliro, for example, does not do well. Unless you, in your perception, see all of these as people who serve interests, the line of governmental order. But tell that in the next municipal elections. So I would expect you to be a little more careful on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going ahead with the principles of equality. We have always promoted concepts of widening rights. We believe in diversity, freedom, self-determination, the right to self-determination for women. Let me have a personal report. Many years ago, when I joined the Left, my little party, the Interior KEY, had made a decision for his time, obviously by catching the messages of those who had taken place last decade in French May, the Greek one that came decaying through the insurrection of the Polytechnic School, the thought that existed at the time. That decision said "the woman free from man and both free from capitalism". I still think we should move in this direction, and I really feel proud that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, right on this great avenue of these ideas, has tabled for consultation a law which today comes to complete our own policy on the right of homosexual couples to civil marriage, childbirth and various other issues. And I would really like you to refer to this in your dentistry, because it is good to sell a Progressive, put it in the window, but it is even better to support it with specific positions. Dear Minister, I would like to express my sympathy because your role was difficult today. You have been forced to apologize for things that you do not have responsibility for. I'm telling it quite frankly. And tell your colleagues next time to come and support you, not only yourself personally, but the government, if they want to be said to be a government which has an open mind on these issues. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to speak personally, but they are not present - those of you who have made such a 'diamonds' lately, will be the ones who will shape the true face of the New Democracy, a person who unfortunately meets with the extreme racist speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Vilialis, has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Sukuli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I hope, Mr Skourletis, that at least two women are here to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u154	Not at all. I wish the rest were.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u155	You have also spoken about the management of the pandemic in the National Health System, which had the more doubled, triple the ITH in a thousand and fifty hundred, education in work, which did not turn the pandemic into an unemployment tsunami, vaccination and digital procedures that envy other countries in Europe and not just. Can't you see what's going on around you? The Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself have succeeded and gained our credibility abroad and social confidence internally. And that can't be hidden either with make news or nothing. And to come to the make news, I don't really know if you don't want to understand or do that you don't understand. We are clear about this, and I want to be quite clear today. The self-determination of the body of women is their inalienable right, our right. It's over and over! This is the worthy position of the government and the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis. So stop the voter's specula. You are tired of the Greek people with a regular political tactic, which Mr. Paulakis talks and questions the vaccines, while Mr. Tsakalots says "protect" in order to be dear to everyone and everything, thinking that you will catch votes from everywhere. I don't know if you want to go on with this practice, I don't know where she's gonna get you, but the numbers say she's not coming out. Ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on today's topical question tabled by colleagues from the Officerial Representation, we are given the opportunity to address a question that is a social issue and also a political priority of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as has been demonstrated in practice by both our legislative initiatives and by the upgrading of this sector to the form of government. Of course, this is an issue which is not appropriate for opposition hearings, as you are usually accustomed to, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, but I am sure that today is not the aim of your question. The relevant State Secretary, Mr Syregella, presented in a documented and excellent manner the government actions that we have undertaken and the main priorities of the new National Gender Equality Action Plan 2021-2025, which is preparing to enter into consultation. Because such a serious issue requires fruitful dialogue and good cooperation, so that we can reach an effective deepening strategy, which will bring us closer to the objective pursued. But you will also allow me to place as the only woman Member of Parliament in the Greek Parliament from an entire region of the Peloponnese. You see, our voters have probably been more progressive than yours. Mr. Chakalotos is not here to separate the women on the left and right. I would therefore like to put forward a few thoughts on this matter, since I also experientially know both the difficulties and the struggles that my colleague said earlier. I should like to focus briefly, Mr President, on a parameter that I consider to be central to improving the current problems of equality in Greek society. I am of course referring to the issue of the adoption of good educational policies, which concern the ecosystem that starts from the pre-school age of our children and includes family education. Because established prejudices, attitudes and behaviors break only with structural changes in the functioning of the social pillars, such as education, as is the family. I therefore believe that it would be an important first step towards a single approach to this ecosystem in order to lead to deep-strength strategies, adopting similar actions both for the short-term and for the long-term resolution of the problem. This is because, however positive some of the initiatives you have taken proved to be fragmentary, and that is why they had little effect on the treatment of the problem. It is of great value to understand that we need to speak not only with blossoms, but also with a programme, employment programmes, entrepreneurship programmes. But, above all, we must move on to educational policies for the integration of this particular ecosystem, which has to do with both education and family. Then we should get into the contents of individual education actions, many of which are described as well in the decisions of the European Council Strategy 2018-2023. At the same time, however, perhaps we could go one step further, in a pilot framework of educational innovation - and I would like to share it with you - known in America as Action Teaching, promoted by Professor Scott Ferry. This is an educational experience that concerns students and parents and offers a different educational approach to the issues of strong social resistance, at the centre of which social issues are not dealt with either as a stranger or as something far away that we could resolve in the future, but are a social and individual priority of the present and should be tackled experientially rather than cognitively. Such examples can lead us to structural solutions, because problems are structural and need structural solutions. This would like a genuinely progressive government, such as our progressive government, in practice, and not in words, as a genuine conservative government does, as unfortunately was yours, dear and dear colleagues of SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u156	We also thank Mrs Sukoulis and the consistency of time. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by experiencing almost eighteen months of the COVID 19 pandemic, I think we are all now in a position to have a much clearer picture of the consequences that have arisen in the areas of society as a whole under the exceptional circumstances in which we have been called upon to deal with. And, you know, the world's scientific world, in an attempt to raise awareness of the population of health care, has proposed an argument for the citizens of each country not to be familiar, not to be familiar, with death and the loss of our fellow citizens, as death figures are daily too high and are unfortunately high. So with the same logic, but also with the same aim, we in our position and with regard to the issue that we are discussing today, the equality of sexes, must state to all the citizens of this country that what we have seen and hear in recent months must be played, particularly as regards unthinkable issues of racial violence and feminism - this term has been brought into our everyday lives, unfortunately - all that is not something that we should be accustomed to, is not something we have to deal with with with with with with with misery. Officially, the quarantine period has shown that the complaints about the abuse of women in the "19500" line, as well as in the advisory centres, have risen sharply. And according to a very recent report by EL.AS in 2020, ninety-two more cases of domestic violence were noted in the quarantine than in the previous year, in which about 82.5% of offspring were men and 73% were women. Within the 15 months of Lockdown 12 women were murdered, murdered by their husband - now or ex - their partner, their prospective rapist, and we must bear in mind that there is no possibility for a female homicide one day, while he had never been subjected to violent behavior on his victim before. From the research and empirical data, what is clear is that women killed because of their gender are women who have been abused for years, whether by their husbands or by their partners or by their relatives. Greek society only in the first half of 2021 shocked such incidents. Only in the last few days have I mentioned the brutal murder of Caroline, which has shocked the Greek, the rape of the working cleanser in Petralon, the rape of the thirty-year-old in Kolonaki, the group rape of the new pregnant woman in Saint Panteleimon. They are shocking events, which are regrettable events, but, ladies and gentlemen, serious conclusions are being drawn and very important points are being made and dealt with, Minister. Society, for example, requires - and yes, the time has finally come and we are still waiting for you, Minister - to tighten up the sentences for crimes such as I mentioned. We therefore expect to see the new Criminal Code announced by the relevant Minister, because the responsibilities of the SYRIZA are registered with the new Criminal Code, which has brought bread and bread, just before the previous elections, registered, clear, with enormous responsibility. But your responsibility, Minister, is not to oppose SYRIZA. Your responsibility is by deeds to solve the existing problems. That's why the Greek society has voted for you. Let us see the issues of equality as a whole: at European Union level, on the basis of the comparative data from the European Institute for Gender Equality, achieving the goal is progressing, but at a very slow pace. It is worth noting that in the last five years 2015-2019 the Equality Index has only improved by 1.2% and our country is still ranked lately among the European Union countries on gender equality issues. What was the attitude and what were the New Democracy Government's choices with regard to these elements that I mentioned earlier? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. The current government has, unfortunately, chosen to effectively abolish the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and merge equality policies with family and demographic policies. This is a clear regression. All the bodies, all groups, all the relevant bodies and civil society have told you. Don't you understand that this is a mistake? In fact, I will tell you this because I remember, as Vice-President of the Committee on Equality in Parliament, the excellent real cooperation that we had when you were Secretary-General of Equality: we have campaigned to raise awareness of the issues of domestic violence, particularly during the first quarantine. But then what happened, Minister? Now what have you done on awareness issues about domestic violence? What were you doing as a campaign from September then on? They are doing and watching campaigns to raise awareness of banks or other organisations, as part of corporate social responsibility, and the Greek state is absent. Why are you doing this? Why don't you continue the awareness campaigns? Even late ratification of the ILO Convention 190, after ratification of the Istanbul Convention, is not enough. Yes, it is important, but it is not enough to eliminate as much as it is for the real and effective support of the victims. The state must and must take the necessary steps to deal with the phenomenon of discrimination and racial violence, an extension of which is also harassment at the workplace. In this context, we have tabled very specific proposals and I am closing with that, Mr President. The first and most important step is the amendment of the Criminal Code, as I said, and in particular of the limitation of charges for sexual abuse and the stricter penalties for crimes against sexual freedom, in order essentially to ensure that these provisions are essentially intended to protect victims and not to be exploited by the perpetrators. A code of conduct also needs to be drawn up immediately with a set of rules of conduct to be observed in each professional area. It is necessary to ensure the proper and sufficiently well-managed functioning of the relevant AIA and Citizens' Co-ordinator for the prompt processing and investigation of complaints of sexual harassment at work. Speak with action, not only in words, Minister! And most importantly: if we really want a better society and better human relations, healthier and more effective communication between the sexes, this must be done primarily and preventively through the educational process, through the introduction of the Sexual Education course in the curriculum, where children will in fact be able to learn to respect each other, the two sexes, the diversity, the different choice. I should like to conclude by repeating the definition adopted in 1995 at the 4th World Conference on Women. It was said, then, that violence against women is probably the most shameful violation of human rights. It does not separate between borders, does not distinguish between cultures or between riches. As long as it continues, then, we cannot claim that we are making substantial progress towards equality, development and peace." Personally in this direction I will continue to move from the seat of the Greek Parliament, trying - you know - to disprove the Prime Minister's statement at the BBC in July 2019 that, unfortunately, there are not so many women who would be interested in politics in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. We continue with the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synchronakis, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Gender equality, equal treatment, equal opportunities for women and men and so on. You mean thousands of people, they really don't have any thoughts. And you know why? Because both the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement as government parties, as government parties, have literally devalued the lives of women and even in the name of gender equality and equal opportunities for men and women. They apply, you are literally applying the European Union Gender Equality Strategy 2020-2025, which you share, you are both implementing it, which actually means little rights and opportunities. From this point of view, it is really a challenge that today's debate in this House on the so-called depreciation of gender equality policy by the current government. Did you ever financially strengthen social structures, children's, infant's stations, CIDS and CIDs? Did you create more such structures to meet the ever-growing needs of Greek society? No, of course never. On the contrary, you have introduced the vouchers, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - and of course the New Democracy continues - thus weakening public, municipal structures, strengthening the private structures that have already taken the head. As for the hostels of abused women, they are literally 'in the air' with workers on time. However, SYRIZA, in his question, raises the question that the New Democracy does not apply this strategy faithfully. It attempts artificially to hide its overall strategy of matching New Democracy to the service of capitalist development, the armoring of the competitiveness of business groups and their unobstructed profitability, the channelling of over billions of euros from the Recovery Fund to the green economy and digital technology, which requires a new, super-heromony, restoring burdens on the people. It deserves an important, timely and sensitive issue, that of gender equality, as you certainly call it. Mr SYRIZA, we do not agree with this title because this concept of gender equality has literally been raped by the European Union and the governments. We are talking about the equality of women, that is, the social equality of men, with social rights, that is to say, the same value. And you're doing this to enjoy the impressions from the recent vote of half the articles in the anti-government bill. This is a great opportunity for you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You are raising differences in the issue of gender equality with New Democracy and you appear to be more sensitive and more competent managers of the European Union's gender equality strategy 2020-2025. And you are quoting arguments, phrases, but also such an anti-government methodology, which serves to bring you back to government power, seeking to mock and capture people's labour forces into your own management policy. Just remember, in the name of gender equality, a number of positive measures have been abolished, such as a ban on night work in industrial sectors and a five-year difference in retirement age between women and men. A recent episode of the new cycle of attack and reappointment of women's needs is the anti-labour monarchy of the New Democracy Government, which turns motherhood into part-time, with the ten-hours, irregular, rolling hours, flexible working relationships, work on Sundays, not just making it easier for the working woman, but increasing her level of exploitation. New, advanced forms of exploitation are generally introduced, such as teleworking. So all these measures, which are copy-paste from the directions of the European Union, do not reconcile, as you say, but actually confuse the professional, family, social life of women, as do men. It breaks every normality, every distinction between working time and non-working time. So this misery that permanently perpetuates the working jungle, especially for women and youth, is not exaggerated, no matter how hard it is to do, no matter how much you mislead this working people who are filled with anger and indignation. A characteristic example is the famous International Convention for the Prevention and Combating of Violence and Harassment at Work, which you have voted together with the Government of New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement. You are even saying that the aim is to create an environment that respects, promotes and ensures the right of every human to a world of work without violence and harassment. We are now asking ourselves: Are enterprises awarded with the equality mark, as provided for by the SYRIZA Act and incorporated into its monstrous role, will the New Democracy Government not apply flexible labour relations, work with the block, the abolition of Sunday holidays? How do you ensure a world without violence and harassment at work when you are generalizing for working women the repetition of working time? Is it not a violent blackmail by the mother of a teleworker who works with a broken hour and even when life and working hours are being baptized 'culture of the adaptability of the worker'? Violence isn't the dismissal of pregnant women, which is on a few months' contracts? How are these protected when your normality has condemned these new working mothers at work by contract? Here, refuse to remove the disgusting provision that excludes from the childbirth, maternity, maternity benefits, those who have not raised two hundred meanings in the last two years. Isn't it violent for the worker to be forced to attend online training courses even after the birth of a worker, making 'ladder' up to the birth permit, pregnancies, motherhood? But in cases of unacceptable cases of sexual harassment and violence at the workplace you know very well what obstacles a worker faces to reach the complaint. Because a worker has many intentions to face up to the ultimate conviction of the perpetrator: from police arbitrary to long-term legal proceedings, which discourage them from denouncing the incident at legal level. For example, hotel staff, waitress is exposed to employers' terrorism, extortion of hotel owners and luxurious restaurants, which, according to the company's profits, are inconvenient even in the dressing of working women to attract customers. Such incidents do not develop in any social vacuum, Minister, but in the territory of the trade in sexuality, whose sepsis embraces the so-called 'tourist product'. In every way and through these procedures, you seek to acquiescence of employers' violence and blackmail, economic and social coercion. The JRC has taken the lead in the struggles for equal participation of women in work, in education, in family, in social life, with modern rights, supporting the demands of the labour, popular radical women's movement and has literally written history in the promotion of women in our party's organs, in the management boards of trade unions from other mass organizations, in order to strengthen the fight against racism according to modern social needs and interests. The gender-based quota on the lists, on the administrative board, on sport cannot guarantee that discrimination against a worker, an unemployed woman, continues to experience a life without rights, without any time. In the government, the European Parliament, regional and municipal administrations have been distinguished for their anti-popular projects by women. Not all women are the same. Isn't that right? Others are distinguished for their unpopularity, for their anti-popular work, and others are not. So what matters is what policy they serve, what interests do women serve in decision-making centres, the needs of women of day-to-day labour or the interests of business colleges? Over the past few days, atrocious criminal acts have been proclaimed against women, on the occasion of the murder of the twenty-year-old in Sweet Water by her husband, who has rightly caused rage and indignation. They sold the news releases and the news shows. At first they were accompanied by strong racial doses of racism for "the gang of delinquents from Eastern Europe", and then after the confession of the thirty-year-old pilot, they gave the spoon to leaks in the file. The discussion focused on selective excerpts from the young mother's diary, with details, interpretations and extensions affecting her personality and regarding their personal life. It's all reported in the report and television show. However, the lights in these multitude cases must turn to all those social and economic factors that create perpetrators - monsters and leave women exposed to all kinds of danger. The harsh reality experienced by thousands of women today, exposed to insecurity and multiformal violence, confirms that tightening the criminal framework on its own does not prevent such criminal acts. Not only are they treated with the necessary information and decisive condemnation of the incidents that violate women's fundamental rights. That is why we insist on the fight against the old and modern reactionary social prejudices, against social perceptions of relations between the two sexes that are reproduced in this bourgeoisie of capitalist barbarism, considering that essential equality presupposes the fulfilment of all the modern needs of women on every side of their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u160	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. On this basis, modern and progressive for the JRC is to guarantee the right to permanent, stable working for all, fixed daily - seven hours, thirty-five hours, five days - for both sexes, increasing wages and pensions and equal pay for equal work, restoring collective labour contracts, restoring the five-yearly reduction in the benefit of women in the difference in retirement age, health and safety conditions with occupational doctors, strengthening primary care, full-time protection of motherhood by the State, creative exploitation of non-working time. Technology and science today obviously enables all of this to be ensured, but they are stumbled in your policies and in a barbaric, rotten system. Whenever this cap opens, it takes off this stiffness. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u162	We are also grateful to Mr Synergyakis, despite the great excess in time. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Maria Athanasios, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question raised by SYRIZA and being discussed today is the degradation of gender equality policies, not of the genders, as we have known until now, but of most of them, which should in every way require us to accept and be seen as part of the natural evolution of things as a sign of progress. It goes without saying that all people have equal value and that the state should treat them and treat them. The value of the person is undeniable, it is of the utmost importance in the value scale of our society and the reason for the existence of the state and its institutions. Conservation of the unaltered value of the person and the freedom of his choices, without, however, affecting the freedom of the other - with the alpha capital. However, ladies and gentlemen, let me point out this: No, it is not gender equality that is the subject of your concern, it is not the deterioration of the position of the woman as far as you are concerned, while it should be. To prove this, we will of course not stand up to the unfortunate statements made by the Prime Minister, who perpetuate stereotypes about the position of women in the kitchen, but we will present the actions which they speak on their own, saying in detail your selective insistence on maintaining the stereotypical perceptions of women on your part, such as, for example, the small number of women taking part in the Ministerial Council, and that you have not taken any particular action during the incarnations to deal with the phenomena of domestic violence. It is clear that the cases of domestic violence have greatly increased during the period of the multi-month period, as it has proved to be unreasonable to impose, while failing to take other equivalent measures, which would neither depopulate our country's economy nor lead to economic extremism, the homes and families of our compatriots. You have implemented the "we don't live so that we don't die" and in fact you have brought millions of our fellow citizens to a dead end. Clearly the incidents of domestic violence are condemned from the beginning to the end, but have you never imagined that with enclavism - from the word 'cages', that is, cage - and the absolute long-term limitation of our fellow citizens would be inevitable? What measures have you taken to prevent these effects? What relief did you offer to the millions of our incarcerated fellow citizens? Let me ask you something simple: to people who spent hundreds of hours on the sofa of their home with TV, what, for example, did state television channels offer, apart from horror through the news - almost exclusively news from the police paper - and reality broadcasts? Have you dreamed of this education for our children? The downgrading of our people's education begins from there, gentlemen of the Couple and of the Major Opposition, which in the five and a half years of your government has not made any progress in this area. That's a good four-digit number, but it's not enough. The new working law also indifferent to the working mother and mother with the children of AMEA, as it did not provide for the creation of support structures which would relieve them of the stress of child care, so that they could work distractors, but instead maintained and exacerbated non-supportive and incompatible with the needs of the social and working conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that is certain that you are defending both the Government and the Major Opposition is the rights of LGBTK and the immigrants, even of the illegally entering, whom you should relaunch. For these stereotypes, and only you, especially you, gentlemen of the government, are concerned with continuing the tradition of the former. You also proved it with the National Recovery Plan "Greece 2.0" you presented in terms of health. The majority of the actions you proposed were related to the facilitation of foreigners, who will already solve our demographics, in your opinion, the Greek demographics. These monopolise your interest. This one-sided racism you want to cover and you are trying it in every area of social life. I explain: Years in primary school books, in the fight against racism, clear references are made and activities and school work are proposed to facilitate and smoothly integrate immigrants into Greek society and their acceptance by it. But you do not prefer similar actions, since racist behaviours are two-way, so that these guests, asylum seekers, other religious and different cultures are trained so that they can respect the country that is hosting them and the Greek citizens. If you did so, we would probably not have witnessed criminalistic flattering acts, as is especially the case in the last six years. Murders, mafia accounts clearing, rapes with main foreign rulers, have now become an integral part of everyday information and topicality. Just the day before yesterday we heard about the rape of the twenty-six-year-old pregnant woman from four Pakistani women in Omonia. It is appalling, but to be expected, if you consider that illegal or non-enterprises do not have respect for the woman, whom you consider to be lower and behave accordingly. This word, allow foreigners in our country with mathematical accuracy will lead us, among other things, to a regression unprecedented in terms of the position of the woman. With regard to LGBTQs, actions are taken on one hand, provisions in the legislations, on TV their presence is considered to be expected in each television band, on each broadcast, on films, on series, in order to make brainwashing needed to reach children. The class of Sexual Education is also introduced into the primary school. What are the pedagogical objectives? Who will teach, by what kind of training, on what criteria? Apart from the information and medical interest the initiative presents, because it also has positive parameters, such as the elimination of all forms of child abuse, the development of volunteering, the development of consciousness, the issue is once again the fight against racism, prejudice and respect for the diversity of religion and stereotypes, because that is what is required, if you allow the web of Greek society to be changed uncontrolled. The main outline of our thoughts and positions following the recent case of the Freshwaters, let us also mention the increase in cases of gypsy. The measures to deal with these phenomena are very simple. The best way to prevent is to provide education, which will be given in due time, honestly, efficiently. The education of our young people already since their youth, of whatever sex. The phrase "if you want to protect your daughter, give education in time to your son" is correct. Learn man to respect, accept, honor, love, put man first at his place and height. I hope my reference to the son and daughter is not considered a sexist comment. If it is regarded as such, I am sorry, but we will have to revise a lot of things in our principles and values and redefinite what we are seeking. Whatever sex we decide there are, it is worthy of mutual respect and respect for the nature of man as well as love for God and man. To conclude, the issue of gender equality, what we first ask to identify and then resolve has already been solved for thousands of years from our church. The apostle Paul had distributed it very simply: “There is no man or woman, slave or freeman,” implying that under the law of love, which Christ first applied, we are all equal in value and rights, and there is no distinction between one and the other. Gentlemen, are you willing to discipline with these principles and under this light our young ones? We're expecting some practical answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. The Houseary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakada, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an extremely important debate is taking place in an extremely heavy climate too. Heavy climate because in the last few days we have all been shocked by the feminine murder case, with the twenty-year-old girl losing her life, murdered by her husband. A crime that rightly upset all Greek society and comes, unfortunately, to be added to a long list of such cases of racial and domestic violence. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos mentioned names of women, victims of femininity. Sadly, however, we see that the climate is extremely gloomy. And it wasn't enough for the feminineity, we had within twenty-four hours a few days ago the rape of a five-year-old woman in Petralon, a pregnant woman in Saint Panteleimon, yesterday we had the arrest of a priest in Agrinio for the rape of two minor girls. Ladies and gentlemen, all these samples show that they really and in the most vibrant way they do, human rights, racial discrimination, gender equality, abuse, racial violence, but also bowling are areas that we must try collectively, because that is the only way we can help. I shall fully agree that it is not a matter of party controversy. It is a field of cooperation and common actions, because it is really abused, bowling, violence has neither an ideological shade nor an economic situation, nor an education field. We have seen and seen too many incidents, which demonstrate this very, that violence really has no borders, no color, no money. Nevertheless, in order to work collectively and to have a result, I must - and I say quite aware of what I am saying - that the New Democracy should remove the back-buttons which, unfortunately, seem to be carrying over and over the years. If we look at its legislative initiatives on the subject, we will see that the only positive interventions concern the obligation to adopt European directives and, unfortunately, they are too many times a leaf for unacceptable legislation. The last example is the recent work done in Article 5, where we see that the employer is empowered to investigate possible complaints of harassment or violence. However, we do not see any prediction of what will happen if the employer is the perpetrator. Many institutions have highlighted the gap. It's not just us. We expect that if it is indeed the wish of the Ministry of Labour to eliminate race discrimination and sexual harassment at the workplace, you can explain to us, Minister, how this gap will be cured. And unfortunately, this is only a sample of the legislative gap that we have to deal with. Let me open a brief parentheses. If we stick to the question of work, we should not forget that there are too many incidents. We are all known, we are all involved in such complaints and complaints about abuses in spaces, such as the Armed Forces, such as the Greek Police. We should also see how the framework can be strengthened so that these complaints can be investigated and attributed responsibilities when it appears that they are indeed to be attributed. Now let's go back a little bit further, to a previous law, bill, to the discussion of the bill of conscientiousness. We have had too many bodies and parties, and we together have to shout, saying that the framework is not clear and we will have cases of malicious spouses, who will be able to get the condolence of their children. I shall not refer to comments by colleagues from the New Democracy on the subject, nor to comments made at the time by the Minister responsible. I will pass on the statements by the lawyer, Fani Giotakis, who is a member of the Committee on Family Law, when they asked her about the Caroline murder case and what will happen to her child's custody. According to Mrs Geotakis, therefore, the new law adopted by the Mitsotakis Government does not remove the right to parental care to the spouse pilot because he has not previously been accused of domestic violence. It is therefore possible, even if custody is removed, to maintain parental care and later to be able to make use of this right so that it may be released even earlier. Of course I will agree that justice will have the final word, as is appropriate, in this case and in all the others. However, we must ensure that the legislative framework used by the judge does not leave any loopholes, so that the criminal can exercise parental rights. We all understand those little windows where they can drive. In addition, I cannot say - and I am ending with this, Mr President - what we have heard all these days from - within many introductorys - 'publishers' and - also within many introductorys -'specialists' and should really be noisy not only as politicians, as representatives of the Greek people, but also as women, as we are here right now. We heard Ms. Mandrou take note of SKAI's morning show that the man who was alleged to be an assailant - referring to the conjugate - has just seen the body disappear - we remember Franzis' case, he was able to cut down - and that this guy here, who was acting as a perpetrator, the creation of his personality did not allow him to do so. In fact, I cannot say anything other than that it is outrageous as a statement and to note that the professed perpetrator is not an actor. He has confessed to his crime. But, apart from that, we should see how we can preserve the public speech so much. Of course, we cannot be policemen and policemen of what is said and what is evoked by each journalist - especially if he considers that he is, anyway - but we should certainly see how we can preserve the citizens from - I will not call it pollution - this outrageous field of action and enlargement of the patriarchy that prevails around us. I am not going to mention Mr Balasca for his own advice on aspiring spouses. I hope that the SAD that has begun will finally work. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have not seen any legislative intervention in the direction of preventing and eliminating such phenomena in these twenty months, but we are witnessing a constant devaluation of the very existence of women. It was only yesterday - and it is not a fake news - that Members of the New Democracy voted against abortion. This comes some time after the conference's cancellation - due to reactions - on fertility. All of this shows that, no matter how much we discuss today, no matter how much we talk about gender equality policies, the darkening patriarchy lasts well. This one must try to pull out and we will do it starting at school, training our children, creating a course support framework so that it is no one alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u166	And we thank Mrs Bakadima. We're entering the secondary cycle. I call on Vima the first Member of Parliament from SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, in your theology you spoke almost forty minutes, but from what you said, I really do not know whether anyone or anyone who has been following this debate understood what the central political planning of this Gender Equality Government is, what your ideological mark is, what your vision is of an equal society between men and women is. You referred to the continuation of certain SYRIZA programmes and policies. You criticised a government that has not been ruling for two years and you have not referred to your ideological framework for gender equality. And I continue to ask myself: are the Prime Minister's words about women not dealing with politics, but their position is to do homework and, since they have decided themselves, we are not doing anything to facilitate them, we continue to reproduce stereotypes and a little more unpaid work to save money from the application of social and policy care? They are stereotypes, stereotypes, sex stereotypes that you tried to pass through the law on conspiracy, that big women alienate their children from their fathers, that's why they have to be punished? Or that domestic violence doesn't exist and is an invention of women to remove children from their fathers, so it takes a definitive sentence for someone to get away from his child, no matter what it will continue to be in danger for four, five, ten years or I don't know how much? Caroline's killer, who hasn't even been charged with domestic violence, will be able all this time with the law you have brought, to have and to claim custody of his child. All of this with your signature, in your own complicity, even though it may not all concern your department. You've talked a lot about actions. What I'm telling you is your actions. Otherwise, our policies have continued. So do these things that I am telling you reflect your own personal view of equality? We want an answer to that. Of course, the question is rhetorical because it seems from your words that all these policies - which I say again, you do not have as competent, but other ministers of other ministries - have signed them either by your anointing or by your support. After all, you have already been registered as the first government responsible for equality matters for all these years, which have completely devaluated the women's organisations and which have come into direct conflict with them on various issues, by simply wanting to remain faithful to your party discipline and without any interest in the views of the women's movement. Also here today, Minister, you are not just to criticize SYRIZA. You are to answer - we are asking you today - for your policies these two years, and that is why I will not bother to answer you either for the Salamis Consultative Centre which, in Chryssovelloni, Kouvela, has started the procedures - for which we have not been able to finish them - nor for your initial consultation of the NPT, while the first consultation with an innovative laboratory of the NRAF had taken place in the government of SYRIZA, nor for the funding of the structures that we have left and the legislative framework, to be integrated into the regular budget - you have chosen another three years to spend in the NRACF, nor for the chance news that you have been conducting on rape. Mr. Romans first ate the out-of-court. If you want, you may be next, but it'll be good if you don't keep going. And I'll ask you again, and I'll close with the questions I asked in the first place, and this time I'm waiting for an answer: Do you agree with the abolition of quotas on the boards of sports clubs? We had a quota on the boards of directors, you have the ballots. Do you agree with the incorporation of municipal councils into the social services of the municipalities? That was the answer we got from your Ministry last time, that they will become one of the social services of the municipalities. Why did you accept to participate and give your ance to this infamous conference on fertility? You didn't know, did you not see the program? Was it your inspiration to limit the application of certain articles of the Convention on Violence and Harassment at Work to businesses of more than twenty people? Why do you not want to apply it universally? Are you proud of the criticism by GREVIO and the UN of Family Law and the violation of the Istanbul Convention? One answer you didn't give! Have you received these letters, or have we only received them? GREVIO and the UN are judging you. What are you doing about it? LGBTK Politics. Do you agree with the proposal for a law that we consulted? Are these families joining your family policy, or are you only a minister for some families? We will not get tired, Minister, of repeating these questions until, as the motto for domestic violence 'Stop silence' says, of you finally breaking your silence and answering all of them with acts that you so much like to invoke, but which we do not see in substance. So by actions, the rest of your time remains in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, after me for the rest of my time, will the Minister speak again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u170	He will speak, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u171	Do you want me to precede and close once and for all?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u172	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u173	I, Mr. Skourletis, accept that. In fact, this is how you facilitate the process. Here, Mr Skourletis, you have the floor and thank you for this facilitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u174	You're welcome, Mr. President. After all, I think too many and interesting things have been said. I would actually like to ask a few questions which I think should be clarified, at least for those who are following the debate, so that we know what the government supports. I would like to ask you, Minister, this: do you finally recognize the substance of the term 'female murder'? Are you responsible for the position where you are going to suggest incorporation into the concept of the legal framework of offences, regardless of penalties, or not? However, you realise that it is very important for a society to record the crime in a certain way. I would therefore like a position on this issue. A very big dialogue has already been opened and is being discussed. If you accept it, we'll see. But, regardless of that, do you think today that a number of phenomena mentioned by all the representatives of the parties here about racial violence, harassment at the workplace and others are based on the great problem of patriarchy? Do you recognize that there is today the issue of patriarchy in Greek society, and not only, but now we are talking about Greece? Apart from a narrow governmental and legislative framework, what can we do as public persons, as representatives of opinions and perceptions, to tackle this issue? The answer is very critical, because you realise that here your space is flirting with the hegemony of overconservative views. And I am not talking about you now, but about all that we have heard from New Democracy officials over the last few days. There is another issue I wanted to say in my speech and I did not mention it. In February of this year, I had tabled a topical question to Mr Petsa - before being asked to save self-government, it was another his role at that time - in relation to what all of us had left, the incitement to rape through the 'Big Brother' television station 'SCAI'. So I asked him how we respond as an organised society in this culture of rape. Are we leaving this on the television market, which play a catalytic role in shaping the awareness of young people, young children, boys and girls? And that is something that no one disputes. So do we leave it to self-regulation of the market? Is there the Television Council? And, if there are no ready solutions, there is a need to open up a dialogue, to see what we are doing, because obviously we should not adopt isoproposed bans, which may lead to censorship, but also to push this culture of rape, which we see to a very large extent? And I am referring not only to the case of this reality, but also to a series of other realitys, which forge specific standards for the role of women. I think that these are essential issues too. Finally, I would like to refer to the issue of criminal codes. A lot has been said lately. And since you mentioned twice, three times in make news, I would like to tell you that more make news than you heard from members of your party, until the natural automobile engineer in the Sweet Waters was revealed, we had never heard of it! And all of this from an entire system that wanted to charge this case to immigrants, Albanians, to the Act of Friday, which was supposed to have opened the prisons, etc. etc. So, as far as the criminal codes are concerned, do you know that in the criminal codes, as they were adopted during the governing period of SYRIZA, new crimes were introduced that had to do with family violence and were not before, as was the issue of sexual harassment at work, long before the European directive was incorporated in recent days?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u175	This has been since 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u176	Well done, then. And they were confirmed and widened in these very specific codes and independently of the issue of reducing the time to build the sentence, which was horizontal. Because here there is another specula, that it is about reducing the sentences of the rapists. It wasn't that. It was a horizontal reduction, which, on the one hand, was voted on, but, on the other hand, it was predicted that the time for the mandatory establishment of the sentence within the prison was 2/5 by 1/3. You know all this, I guess. Are you questioning it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u177	I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, that's why I'm asking, to make these things clear. Because they are debated a lot and some things should be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. And we'll close the procedure with Minister Syregella. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. You told me before, Mr. Skourletis, to be more careful. You guys be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u181	I'm careful!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u182	... because I do not need anyone to support me either in substance or in formal terms, because you mentioned earlier the law passed by SYRIZA, Law 4604/2019, which defined that the coordination, monitoring and implementation of equality policies, as far as all ministries, were concerned, the General Secretariat, which was in my power. So, as you can see, I don't think you came here to support Mrs Agathopoulos. I believe that Mrs Agathopoulos can support herself. In any case, you didn't come here to support her. You also told me, which you have mentioned before in the House, that the General Secretariat should be returned to the Ministry of Interior. Why is Mrs Agathopoulos the Department of Equality in the Ministry of Justice? So here you have two standards again. Is it the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Interior? Do we like it to be called the 'Ministry of Interior' to pete the ears of the officials who might want to go back to the interior, but are we in justice? What do we want after all? Mrs Agathopoulos said that there is no central political planning and that all these projects I mentioned earlier were works by SYRIZA, and I already submitted in the Minutes how many advisory centres were opened both in PASOK and in the New Democracy and in SYRIZA. And, at the same time, I ask: 'INNOVATION HUB' that we make for women was SYRIZA's? Has the SYRIZA done so with the cooperation with OAED for the victims of domestic violence to find a job? Oh, no. The first time she has passed a national action plan with all the Ministries through concrete actions - Mrs Bakadima said earlier about the National Defence - media and the National Defence, which has equality actions, which passes into the National Action Plan for the next few years. Let me not even recall that the national action plan on SYRIZA, 2016-2020, took place in 2017, was announced in March 2017. Mr. Skourletis, I think you remember it because you announced it with Mrs. Kouvella. We put it into the Ministry, within the Ministerial Council, went to all the Ministries, put all the Ministries in action on these areas, as is the strategic action plan of the European Commission and of the Council of Europe. In addition, Ministry of Education. I did not have time to say everything because I thought you had received it, since it is already in the Minutes of the House. What exactly is there with regard to sexual education and gender equality lessons? We didn't do it, you had it a pilot, and you accused us of abolishing it. I'm sorry we're making this mandatory by a pilot. It became a pilot this year and since September it has been universally going to all the schools in the country. Details have already been submitted to the Department of Parliamentary Control. You can get them from there all the programs and the Institute of Education Policy, which has instruments and programs and books given by the Ministry of Education itself, from the Ministry of Education. Ministry of Civil Protection. For the first time, the department of domestic violence throughout the country has started education and training and living, where pandemic allowed it, but much more than nineteen police training courses were carried out, only from the HELP platform of the Council of Europe, which are on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u183	And you increased for women who want to get into the police to throw them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u184	He's taken off the Council of State already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u185	The Council of State did not do so, you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u186	Mr Skourletis, don't open a dialogue now. I heard you. Already in the JRC, the programme "ARIADNI", is being implemented, in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection, to support police personnel in reporting incidents of domestic violence with women, as well as to strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation and networking in civil society actors. We mentioned women's organisations. For the first time over thirty organisations have come to the Committee on Equality of Parliament and we have been told their opinion and their contribution - there have been specific ones - on how we faced the phenomenon of domestic violence during the pandemic. This had never happened before, under no circumstances. Ministry of Sports. All the actions that have been taken have already been announced, and with codes of conduct in every federation. And if you want, details have already been provided in the Minutes of the House for the Ministry of Culture. The vast majority of federations were elected much more women than before. So the quotas we put on the lists worked, and that was the result of that. I told you before, the quota is a tool and it's a gender quota, it's not just about women. You know very well, Mrs Agathopoulos, that the JTI does not take five women to the Board of Directors, but the quota on the part of men is being held. That's the right thing to do. I will also present to you the first annual report on violence against women, about exactly what happened, how many women we have also treated in exceptional accommodation. And by closing, because I don't want to bore you in any case, I'm going to tell you this, that everything that happened, you know why it happened? And there's been a lot of important things. You like it, you don't like it, you want to admit it, you don't want, there's been a lot going on in a year and a half, and now we're going to close both years. Do you know why we did it? Because there was cooperation between all the public bodies, all the ministries, there was cooperation with civil society organisations and at the same time with the private sector. Because only then and in these cases, when we are all united together, we only do the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u187	We too thank the Minister and the time consistency. The debate on Question No 22/17/19-4-2021 is adjourned on the subject of 'Subsistence of gender equality policies in the twenty months of New Democracy'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-25-S1-commons.u188	With the consent of Parliament at 18.31', the sitting is closed for Monday, 28 June 2021 at 13.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) a repetition of the plenary session, by its President, between the members of the Ice Council and the Prosecutor's Office, appointed or promoted to the extent that they hold prior to the submission of the proposal for prosecution, for the appointment of two [2] alternate members of the Court of Justice, as well as by the Advocate-General, in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of Law 3126/2003 ‘Priority responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable, after the decision of the Parliament, to carry out criminal proceedings against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Dimitris Papopoulos, for the purpose of carrying out any special duties of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, with a view to the attainment of a special duty as part of the duties of the former Deputy Minister of High Representatives.
