ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I will inform you, before reading the special agenda, that today and next week - next week for three days - there will be molecular tests for the diagnosis of the coronary. You realize that we are starting our work with confidence in dealing with a persuasive pandemic. And I believe that eventually our stubbornness and our discipline will win it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION The specific agenda is to be the subject of a debate, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House of the management of destructive fires and the restoration measures. We are meeting today at the request of the Prime Minister, who was sent on Thursday, August 12 and notified to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition, as set out in Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure. As you know, this debate is scheduled to be short. However, for reasons of better organisation of the debate, because of the importance and gravity of these debates, as we are seeing now, we accept in accordance with a practice followed by the speaking time of the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition Parliament to be enlarged in such a way that the Prime Minister can speak in his prototype for forty minutes, in his dentology for twenty minutes and in his tertiary for twenty minutes. The Presidents of the other groups shall take the floor in their terminology for 20 minutes and in their denology for 12 minutes. We are thus extending the debate from one to four hours. I would ask for their compliance, particularly because today, we will have a margin for a slight enlargement - with capital letters the word 'light' - and this increase, the Prime Minister has a very serious meeting with the European Union's Crisis Management Commissioner at four o'clock. So we should be done sooner. I ask this House: do you accept the admiration of this debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u2	The House accepts. The proposal shall be accepted unanimously. I invite the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not just the time that we are going to use to discuss the issue that has been dominated by news in the last month. I am obviously referring to the catastrophic fires that have hit our country. I believe that the quality of the debate will also be an important aspect, if we are able today to respond frankly to the real questions raised by the citizens, but also by the opposition, and if we are able to reach at least a few axes of agreement on how to deal with forest fires from now on. The great challenge that the climate crisis imposes on us is to launch policies to tackle it. Let me start by saying that, as in our home country the risk of large fires continues, our thoughts and I believe that all of us are thinking about those and those who are still fighting or staying on guard on the front line, civil protection and firefighting, the Armed Forces, Police, Government, and our volunteers everywhere in the country. The thousands of human lives that have been protected in the throat reflect their devotion, their oppression, their sacrifice, and what we have lost, all we have to resurrect and resurrect. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As I have said to you, I expect today's debate to differ from ordinary parliamentary debates and its subject is indeed a problem not just of national but of global dimensions, with an importance that goes beyond party visas and with a common request for answers to four questions that concern citizens. Question One: We prepared, as needed for this year's fires? Question two: What went well and what went wrong in the flame fight? Question 3: How will local communities and fire-fighted ones be supported from now on? Question fourth and perhaps more substantial: How will we tackle the effects of the climate crisis in the medium term? I shall therefore try today to answer these four questions frankly. So, first of all, how much were we prepared for this fire season? I believe that the image here is quite clear, with its positives and its negatives. In a fire attack, which the country had to experience many years, we managed not to mourn victims, although we lost Santa, a heroic volunteer. We protected thousands of our fellow citizens. But property was destroyed, fortunately not as much as the size of the fire would make us wait, but a very large piece of forest wealth was destroyed, a little more than a million acres of green. And this is the bitter cost of environmental change, which this year was combined with a painful heat and spread its fires across the Mediterranean. I would remind you that it was not only Greece that was faced with catastrophic fires. Turkey was found, Italy was found, Algeria was found, as in previous years Portugal and Spain had been found. However, it is certain that this summer has become much more difficult to manage, because this prolonged heater, a heater we had to experience in our country since 1987, has actually turned all our forests into reservoirs. That is precisely why, because we had intended to invest in Civil Protection, we managed and converted it, within a relatively short period of time, from an inert service to an abandoned office, into a fundamentally worthy state entity, with infrastructure, staff, budget and project. And those who doubt it, let them just try to remember the name and work of the predecessor of Nikos Chardalia. I do not remember it, however, and I do not think that the majority of Members who are here today are remembered even. So very important things have been done in the area of civil protection. “112” was triggered, which was my personal pre-election commitment - following the traumatic experience that the country experienced in 2018 - and “112” proved its worth. The fire extinguisher before this anti-nuclear period was reinforced with new strains, new vehicles and strengthened, yes, and with air means for which so much discussion took place. In particular, it was strengthened by seventy-four air means, sixty-nine involved, plus five which are the property of the Fire Corps. These are the air means at our disposal this summer and they are more than ever. Whether it was enough or not, I am prepared to discuss it, but it cannot be disputed that the country had provided itself with more airborne means, some of which were, in fact, tested for the first time, for the first time, such as those known to all trawlers, that is, small aircraft, which can carry a significant amount of water for their weight and which have proved extremely useful in the first insult of a forest fire. I will come back to this later. At the same time, we had intended to clean up and intervene in twenty-one, namely, dangerous areas which had characteristics similar to the case of Matti, cases of settlements that were very close to forests, that is, where this very problematic stimulus between the forest environment and the structured environment exists. In fact, I myself participated in a teleconferencing conference with eighteen mayors - this was on 24 May 2021 - where I made it very clear that we must all work together - central state, self-government I and II - so that we can ensure that we can reduce the amount of fuel in these settlements, as much as possible, but also have escaping plans so that in the inappropriate case we need to evacuate such a settlement, we can carry out this complex procedure within a short period of time and with the necessary order. And, indeed, these interventions were made. I mention two cases of settlements: One is the Hippocratic State, where the fire has reached the limits of the Hippocrates State. But it did not actually enter the settlement, precisely because we had intended that the cleansing should take place. And of course, for the first time, there was an escape route in the Hippocrates, a new escape route, so that citizens can get away safely and quickly. The second area, which was threatened by the fire, is an area that is very familiar with you, Mr. Tsipras. And I'm talking about Sunio. I am referring to Sounio, in particular, because, as you have seen, if you move along the road connecting Sounio to Lavrio, there are two routes of escape with labels to the sea, which suggest to the citizens how they can reach the sea if they need to be removed, in a very difficult area, as it is surrounded by forest and the only way out can be the sea. So this was done and led to the relative destruction of the property in houses that were found either within the forest or around the settlements. The reality is that despite the intensity and size of the lights we were called upon to manage, no settlement was burnt to the ground. We have therefore achieved our goal of protecting human life, we have succeeded in our aim of protecting the settlements, we have achieved our goal of protecting the critical infrastructure. There are very few who are aware of the enormous effort that has been made, especially in the fire of Barumbas, so that we can ensure the electrification of the Lecade. I would also like to thank both the executives of the IPTO and the DADIE, because they have made superhuman efforts so that we do not have losses in the electricity supply of Athens, because at some point the fire has reached very close to extremely critical infrastructure in Krioneri and Agios Stefanos. But this summer, in the first days of August, we were called to manage a thousand two hundred and seventy - nine fires, almost sixty a day, in many different places at the same time. Many, we know that now, it was a product of arson. Most importantly, however, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the fact that these fires this year had some different features from fires that we have been called upon to deal with in the past years. It is explained by the National Meteorological Service and by the scientists. I don't want to read complicated technical posts. However, it is certain that what we all saw from television receivers was also being dealt with by firemen in the field. Inner fire turbines reproduced it, so that flames erase much harder even when they accept water ruptures from aircraft. And the best example of this reality was the last fire, which we were called upon to face in Bilia. The entire state mechanism was activated in Vilia. There have been hundreds of water drops from aircraft. All the forces of the Lecade Firehouse were practically mobilised, including the forces that came to support us from abroad. And yet, despite this very great effort, we have had three days to delimit the fire. Is there a mistake? If you think there's been a mistake, tell us. Didn't the firefighters do their job well? Didn't the pilots know where the water was? Wasn't there coordination? Come tell us, then, and tell us exactly where the mistake has been made in this particular fire. The reality, however, is that we were called upon to face fires with very different characteristics, within forests, where there was often absolutely no access from any forest road, forests that had been unintentional for decades. And the truth is, these fires when they escape the possibility of intervention of the first insult, become extremely difficult to manage. I would also like to remind you - because I have heard many dreadful comments about the firefighting, comments very unfairly about the people who gave the battle to the field and gave it many times without even being able to rest, without sleeping, have been awake days - that this firefighting has managed and controlled the overwhelming majority of the fires in turn. All the fires, which we hear nothing about, are fires that were erased at the beginning. Unfortunately, however, and this is the reality, some have escaped and been faced with a reality, we must manage four major fires in different parts of the country, a intensity of a phenomenon that went far beyond our fortresses. The phenomenon surpassed the preparation that we had done. I said it very open, very clear. We were prepared better than any other years. This preparation was obviously not enough to be able to cope with the intensity of this phenomenon and the result is what I have spoken about to you, namely that we may have fewer damaged properties in relation to what some may have expected, seeing the extent of fire, but we have lost more than a million acres of forests. And that certainly is something that obliges us to see in detail what went wrong and, above all, what we can do better from now on. As I told you, the sacrifice of our firemen and our volunteers has been repeated, but the mistakes have not been missed. It turns out only nature makes no mistakes. This year's fires, as I told you, if they taught us something, are that absolute priority in the management of fire, in the management of the phenomenon - I will then come to the preventive measures to be taken in the forests - is that the first intervention is absolutely crucial. As the Minister for Civil Protection has openly stated, and the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, if anyone looks at the sequence of events in the difficult days of this August, it will find that the great problem we have been called upon to manage, has unfortunately begun from the revival of the fire in Varube. The competent authorities were confident that this fire had been delimited, that at that time air was headed through to Evia, which was facing a very big problem, and obviously, when this fire was rekindled, for reasons that are still being investigated, we had to return air in the back of Evia and have to fight two very large fires at the same time. Of course, as I have told you, experience has shown that no matter how many cleanings we have, no matter how much air we have in it - and this year we have more than every other year - it is very difficult to prevent the expansion of a fire, especially in conditions such as the ones we have experienced, if it is not possible to erase it at the beginning. And if you see the fire in Barumbas, it proves exactly the truth. For the first time this year, within the royal estates - some are disturbed by this terminology, but that is what all citizens call them - in any case, within the core of Parnitha's forest, at least the southern part, there were systematic cleansing. For two months they worked in Tatoi logging from Halkidiki in order to remove branches and logs, which had fallen after "Medea", which had unfortunately done a great deal of damage to the ecosystem of Attica. As you may know, there are anti-nuclear zones in the area and even large anti-nuclear areas, which unfortunately have not been enough to stop the fire. Here the fire was unable to stop on the highway, where it was expected to be a hundred firearms, where the highway has a width of almost 100 meters. However, there have also been gaps in the prevention sector. And it is characteristic that, although for it this year, 51 million euros were allocated to municipalities and forests, the results were unfortunately not the expected results. That is why the responsibility now lies with civil protection under the 'DRYADS' programme. Over a period of EUR 300 million will now be provided for cleaning and fire protection zones. These projects must be carried out in winter and spring, with the cooperation of forestologists and the support of local government. In the field of organisation, it is also noted that although more forest protection funds were provided, their absorption was not checked in the best way possible, as until the recent changes we made, forests and forestry services were subject to different political heads. With the act of legislative content, which we will shortly ratify in the National Parliament, we are making a significant structural change and, at last, I would say, the forests in the Ministry of the Environment under the responsibility of the Secretary-General and the Directorate-General for Forestry, so that there is a single supervisory centre that determines our forestry policy, that is to say that these are not simply and often uncontrolled to decentralised administrations, as has been the case so far. It is an important structural reform, which I believe will enhance the efficiency of the Forest Service as a whole and will enable us to work better with the Civil Protection, so that these two pillars, the Forest Service on the one hand and the Civil Protection on the other hand, can cooperate harmoniously during the fire suppression, but above all during the time when there are no fires, where important preventive intervention is needed in the forests. We have therefore seen that, yes, we need more air means and, in particular, air means, which are provided for by the Civil Protection Programme which has already been approved by the Ministerial Council before the catastrophic fires. We will invest in new aircraft, move quickly to quickly acquire and rent these aircraft in the short term. I referred to the so-called trawlers who were first tested and proved their effectiveness. Of course, we are going to set up a special unit which can now try more efficiently in the forests. This is a need, which has emerged strongly in recent days and has also been confirmed with the cooperation of Greek fire extinguishers, with foreign specialized colleagues, who have speeded up helping the country at this difficult time. This new unit, which will be made up of forestists and forest firefighters, should be better trained to act within the specific conditions of the forest. The truth is that the transfer of the power of forest protection and firefighting from the Forestry Services to the Firefighting became, Mrs Gennamas, in 1998 on PASOK governments. It took years to familiarize the firefighting with this new mission, as the firefighting was designed by its birth to face basic urban fires. Today, however, Greek firefighters are much more experienced, much more trained, much more trained to deal with forest fires. But they have to be even better. And we, too, have seen foreign forces, who have come to assist us, who have used new techniques, which are sometimes exploited by the fire brigade, and we need to learn from these fire brigades, which have the greatest potential and efficiency to attempt within the forest in relation to our own fire brigade. If we do not have to be fully prepared to manage our own House in the light of the next anti-nuclear period, I have no difficulty in coming together with foreign countries, so that for the next one or two years, the Greek forces can be framed with foreign forces, which can support us in the critical months of July and August in which the most forest fires occur in our country. Finally, I believe that we are all called upon to draw conclusions from the coexistence of forests and the built-up environment. Without bureaucracy in these mixed areas, residents will now be able to clean up their plots, their streets, without requiring all this extremely complex process where the Forestry license is needed to cut off any branch outside your plot. The flammable pine trees next to the houses, which have at least burned, in the surrounding areas of the settlements should be replaced by other trees. Obviously, I'm not talking about all the pine trees, as a large part of the regeneration will be natural regeneration and obviously our pine forests, which are burned will become pine forest again. I am referring to this area of settlements where we need to move forward, and this is the direction I have given the Ministry of the Environment with special reafforestation plans, so that a zone can be created between the pine forest and the settlement in which we will have different kinds of trees much more fire-resistant. Our forests will be regenerated to a very large extent and artificial reafforestation will take place where they need and where experts point us out. Finally, settlements, as well as houses near or within the woodlands, should be subject to special firefighting specifications. And I have already instructed the relevant Secretary of State for the Environment to adopt the relevant ministerial decisions. Of course, we should also be concerned about their insurance policy in the future, as a whole, against natural disasters. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All this is, of course, just a few initial findings. That is why I will again point out that my public apology was a personal, moral attitude, but before all, it was a political act with a message. Sorry is not only a recognition of responsibility, it is also a motto for action, it is a call to learn from a negative experience so that we can become better. With this starting point, then, a lot will change. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the third question, which we must answer, what we are doing at the moment to support our fellow citizens who have been hit by the catastrophic fires. A few days after the fire pass, we're already healing our wounds. In Attica, Evia, Fthiotida, Fokida, Peloponnese, on the initiative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the damage has already been recorded. Two thousand four hundred ten three autopsies and rechecked in houses and business spaces. The arogi.gov.gr platform has so far been submitted with a thousand seven hundred thirty-five applications corresponding to 10.5 million euros of compensation. The Greek state has never moved faster in granting substantial compensation to the affected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like to remind you that for a fellow citizen who saw his home being destroyed, the first aid is up to 20,000 euros. At the same time, I would like to stress that anti-corrosion and flooding projects have already started everywhere, which I attach particular importance to. Already in the regions of Evia, which will be the most prone to flooding, mixed steps have been taken by the Ministry of the Environment, the forests responsible for flooding and anti-corrosion works within forests, the regions and municipalities so that as soon as possible the best possible flooding can be carried out, the many burnt trees can be removed, the corrosion, the corrosion grids with the help of all forest cooperatives so that we can contain the land, the natural regeneration, and at the same time limit the potential flooding phenomena. I would also like to stress that we are giving special attention to compensation for farms, for means of production, for plant and livestock. There will be specific actions in Evia for resin producers - Mr Koutsouba, I saw that you were at the relevant rally in Evia - but also for beekeepers. Especially for the resin producers, we are talking about almost a thousand of our fellow citizens living from the forest. We will also draw up in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour a multi-annual work programme - multiannual I mean up to seven years - so that we can allow these people to work in the woods at first stage in the restoration work, in the second phase in the protection of the forest, as this will begin to be reborn and corresponding forecasts will also be available for beekeepers. Of course, I must say that especially for the Northern Evia region, the measures we have announced concern not only those affected by the fire. There, as you know, a comprehensive plan for relocating from the housing and productive reconstruction to the new employment opportunities of the people is being drawn up so that they can stay in their homes. Also, a corresponding model of development projects to a lesser extent, because the damage is less, will follow Elias, which has been hit for the second time by destructive fires over a period of 15 years. I would like to stress that I attach great importance to the private donations, which will support this effort. For the first time through a transparent and easy process, via the website e-dorees.gov.gr, private, business, institutions will meet with the needs of the public and each donor will be able to monitor where his money is directed. With the new'refreshing contractor' institution, an interested private person, an institution, an enterprise will be able to undertake not only the study but also the rehabilitation works of an area, always under the supervision of the relevant forest office, and then assign it to the state. Such work has already begun and it is important that the assistance we have received from large institutions, from large businesses that have been inclined to strengthen this effort, which offers not only the resources but also the speed - I stress it, speedily - to the implementation of the projects concerned, which, obviously, is absolutely essential at this juncture. This afternoon I will have the opportunity to meet with the Commissioner himself responsible for crisis management, Mr Lenartsik, so that we can see how we can obtain additional European assistance. I would like to open up one parentheses and say that the contribution made by our country over the last few weeks has been really unprecedented. Twenty-three countries - twelve through the European Support Mechanism, but also eleven countries bilaterally - rushed to support our country by means of air, with fire extinguishers, with staff. I thank each of these countries separately, the volunteers, the volunteers, the firefighters who came to support us at this extremely difficult time for our country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Head of this reconstruction effort will be Mr Christos Triantopoulos, who has a great deal of experience in managing relevant state aid programmes. I would like to present, in the Minutes of the House, the account, from the government's actions, of support for the affected areas after the 'January' disaster and after the catastrophic earthquake in Samos. And I would like to say to all our affected fellow citizens, who today with anger or even suspicion can face these announcements, that as we supported our fellow citizens in Karditsa and Samos and we did not leave them unprotected, we will now do so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, I have commissioned the design of the next day of northern Evia to a man who is known to us, known to all of us, does not come from our own political space. I am referring to Stavros Beno, who has a great deal of experience following the catastrophic earthquakes in Kalamata. He is the man who designed the regeneration of this city, he is an active citizen who has one, I would say, very specific view of what means specifically integrated Special Spatial Plans, so that the challenges of one region can be treated holisticly and all the financial instruments directed towards policy axes which are one that is in harmony with the other. Mr. Benos will obviously be looking for the views of counterpopulation. And I can assure you that every good idea will be welcome to this effort. Especially for the reconstruction of northern Evia, this is a national effort. That is why it will, in fact, be a conquest for our country if all the political forces in these ambitious reconstruction programmes, as I have said, participated in these ambitious reconstruction programmes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In order to happen, however, this first and foremost takes into account the priorities and recognition of the truth, the answers to the questions I have been trying sincerely and today and also to all my public interventions to give, the questions that have arisen from the reasonable indignation of those who have been besieged by the fire, but often myths have become in the confusion and the insufficient image of the conditions, but also data which have unfortunately been distorted by the policy of organized excavations of the settlements. I said straight away - I told the interview I had given on 18 May - that our first priority was and remains the protection of human life! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I honestly cannot understand why there has been a conscious attempt to challenge this attempt, a challenge which directly affects the memory of victims of previous tragedies. Yes, houses and trees are re-engaging. It'll take time, it'll take a while, it'll take money. But people don't come back and it's the life that gives life to all! And this criticism does not even have operational power, because other forces are engaged in evacuation - above all the police, a part of the Civil Protection and the municipalities - and other forces - the Firefighting, the volunteers - give the same time the battle with the flames. This is not about rivals, it is about complementary functions. One helps the other. That is why, as I said, almost all the settlements which have been emptyd have been saved. Of course, let us not forget that the organised removal of residents is not limited to the warning of '112' at all times. It means specific local plans, which, as I have said, includes planned escape routes, animal care, blocking of roads so that there are no locking and, of course, the police, but also the port. I hope, therefore, and I hope that we will not hear this criticism again today, in this Chamber, because she is petty towards a collective conquest of the country, which, at least in this area, has brought us closer to far richer and organised states. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] '112' does not exist today - I imagine you will know it - either in Germany, France or the United Kingdom. In Germany today too, responsibilities are being sought and research is being done because there was no tool to warn citizens to evacuate their homes after the catastrophic floods. This government, like all of them, will at some point be gone and another one will come. But the conquest of 112 and the culture of evacuations is a reserve for the country. And I would sincerely ask you, at least, at this point not to criticise. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak in detail about the Civil Protection Programme, which has already been approved by the Ministerial Council of EUR 1.76 billion. It is the "AEGEANIS" programme. I am presenting only his brief presentation in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will just say that it is a coherent and comprehensive plan with guaranteed funding resources to get the country, at last, the civil protection it needs to have, taking into account the challenges of the climate crisis. This proposal takes into account scientific data and findings drawn up by the previous government. And I am referring, Mr Tsipras, to the Goldenmer conclusion which I have had the opportunity to reread very thoroughly. I must tell you that in many of his conclusions I agree with. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that since 2008 when I was chairman of the Committee on the Environment, following the catastrophic fires in Elias, we have raised some of the important problems with regard to the lack of prevention and the failure to cooperate properly between fire and forest services. I would ask you, however, only and I would like to ask you in general, when it calls for this finding not to be relied upon selectively, but to invoke it as a whole. For example, the finding itself acknowledges that there must be no display of air means. I guess you've read it. But I have not seen your C.E. who has not supported the justified wrath of the inhabitants who, on every fire, want a helicopter over their village! Isn't that right? Here, then, we must be consistent with what we say. Yes, we need air means, we need specific air means, we need more air means, we know which air means we need and we will see to it from time to time to have rentals, and we will also launch air-market programmes. But it is wrong to tell citizens that a helicopter or an aeroplane can be available above every house or that the fires erase only from the air. Fires do not only fade out of the air, such as fires are not transmitted in conditions of intense winds. Because I also heard this criticism that the whole of Greece was burned with zero boars. But, do you not know, when exercising this criticism, that these large fires create their own microclimates and do you not read in Mr Goldmer's own report that 60% of the large fires develop in conditions of moderate winds? So let us agree, on some basic facts, to isolate good and documented criticism from easy extremisms which are often directed at angry, sad citizens who are afraid of being indignant at that time of tension, sad, angry. And because you're going to rush again, I imagine you and Mrs. Gennimata criticising the state, I'm preventing you. It is the ultimate state of this government that has so far successfully responded to a number of parallel crises in Evros, in vaccination, secured the resources of the Recovery Fund, coordinated the government's work, proceeded to strengthen national defence! It is the ultimate state and the successes and failures of this government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But be careful, Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the final state has always been. And once there was a state at last, we didn't find out. But there were other performances and yes, Mr Tsipras, there were other representatives. For example, today the final state is represented by Mr. Gerapitris, represented by Mr. Scortsos, represented by Mr. Pierracakis, who reminds you that he is a Minister of State with responsibility for digital transformation precisely to demonstrate the horizontal nature of this intervention. Previously, the final state was represented by Mr Flavouraris, Mr Pappas, Mr Vernardakis, and I think this debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u4	Please! We're doing fine so far. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u5	I will close, ladies and gentlemen, with a general comment on the great challenge facing the climate crisis. It has been the first priority of this government in a number of bold interventions, such as frustration in western Macedonia. We have been at the forefront of the European battle to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have fully recognised that tackling the climate crisis requires us to change everything: the way in which we produce our agricultural products, the way we move, the way we produce energy, the way we build our homes. Everything needs to be changed in this great effort that we need to make to limit the impact of the climate crisis to the size and the possibility of being practicable. And that is why we rushed and secured 18.5 billion euros from the project "Greece 2.0" and from the resources of the NRP so that one of the four main pillars of the first, at least, of the recovery plan, relates to the green economy. And before we participate in the COP26 of Glasgow, we will have the opportunity to vote in the National Parliament - I hope with cross-party consent - the first climate law in the history of the Greek Parliament. On this occasion, I would like to close up by breaking down some myths that are also poisoning public debate today. Some cannot blur the truth about the burnt areas when the Constitution, in this case, expressly declares all the burnt areas resurrected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Nor is it possible today to conspire for the wind turbines many, often your own, when you know very well that wind turbines can coexist with forests on the basis of the existing legislation, but also on the basis of the case-law of the Council of State. It is not and we cannot consider the softest, cleanest forms of energy enemies of the forest. Nor can we slow down theories that we supposedly burn our forests to enter wind turbines when they can well enter forest areas under very specific conditions, with more important than the placement of renewable energy in specific parts of the country. Therefore, it is very important that these views, often unite with other underground currents that develop in our country, such as the current of anti-embolism, find universal responses at least at the national Parliament level. We are here to defend the right speech, common sense, the strength of scientific analysis, to reach documentary conclusions, to correct our weaknesses where they were so that we could be better. The avenue of science is the one to dominate, not the path of lying and fame. And especially at a time when the environment is changing at such a speed, where only a few weeks ago the United Nations warned that global warming is insecure for the next thirty years, what some people see as a statistic in a written analysis, we unfortunately experience it and will continue to experience it in the future. We therefore have the obligation to put forward responses at the level of the organised state, to respond to how we will have better civil protection, to respond to how we will be involved in the great European effort to be the first continent of zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and how we will achieve our targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. All of this is reflected in a set of government choices which, as I said to you - and I want to believe - go beyond the limits of the government majority, as they represent choices with a national, almost existential character. I think - and I close with this - that the debate on climate law, in a few weeks' time, will give an opportunity to incorporate many positive ideas into which this government is open, because the time has come now to disprove Victor Uggo, who warned that nature is speaking, but man is not listening to it. So Greece listens to it by changing its attitude toward it, by organized plan and bold measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you, as the Step towards the speech by Mr Tsipras, the Chief of the Police Response, has now been mentioned by the Prime Minister on rehabilitation measures, that obviously the Greek Parliament, as it has done over time, has done in Eye, as it has done with the refugee - immigration crisis, as it has done with the pandemic, so now the House will not be vague in its support for the actions to restore the damage caused by the destructive fires. At the Conference of Presidents we will discuss and decide how this House will be able to stand up to this huge damage which has been done, with the support of a comprehensive action rather than part of a project. And this will also concern the relief of wounded ones, such as the family of the volunteer who lost his life, but also the restoration of damage. These will be announced in the House soon after we finalise them in the Conference of Presidents. Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the Radical Left- Progressive Alliance Parliamentary Group for his speech, is now called at Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, these hours are heavy for the country, they are difficult hours for thousands of our fellow citizens, they are hours of grief, concern, reflection, hours of insecurity for all of us and hours of responsibility for all of us here in Parliament, in the government, but also in the opposition. With fires still not extinguished, with the lamentation of the burnt forest in our ears, with society being shocked by the voices of despair, anger, indignation of those who saw the houses, their livelihood and their future burning, first of all, that it is not time for pointless confrontations. But it is a pity and it has been challenging for fifty-five minutes at this Step, Mr. Mitsotakis, with his attitude, in his style, showing that he has understood nothing. It is a shame that it is griefing for such a tragedy that has aggregated us all to once again select the rotten communication, cover up, hypocrisy, decay and transfer of its heavy responsibilities. In a quote of his speech, which was almost entirely trying to convince us that everything was going exceptionally well this year, and it was a small battalion, what was burned over a million thousand acres, he told us: “There was a mistake? Come and indicate where the mistake has been made." [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And so, in this way, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, who has the main responsibility, took back the false apology he told the Greek people during the time of destruction. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because if the Prime Minister of the country comes to the Step of the Parliament after 15 days and wonders whether there was a mistake and asks us to tell him why he apologized for what? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But before I go to the point of what, how, why, and our suggestions for tomorrow, let me express my deepest respect to the people in the first line, to those who gave and give the battle with the flames: firemen, volunteers, residents, toilers and toilers, to their place, who did not hesitate and hesitate to stand against the flames, against the fire beast, and especially to the hundreds of young people and young people, who, with their own hands, with tractors and water rubber, were unarmed but determined to fight and save their land. They stayed there and saved their place from total destruction. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am talking about the eighteen and twenty-six in Evia, Attica and the Peloponnese, which for months have been the government propaganda of these young people, together with all the others in the country, painted them irresponsible, even stigmatizing them as responsible for the spread of pandemic. Power, bravery, unselfishness are, for all of us, a source of optimism and power, but also a burden of responsibility. Because we need mourning, despair, anger to become power of hope, rebirth, reconstruction and rebooting. And this difficult task, imagining titanium, is impossible without their own participation and strength, without everyone's involvement and power. It's always the hard way to do it. The power of the people moves the country and history forward and we will do everything we can now. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened is what happened and we have all seen it, and we all live it and we still see it. The incomprehensible has become a reality. Over three hundred thousand acres of forest became ashes. Trees, lives, animals, houses, property became coal. A tragedy unsubstantiated, unprecedented in its dimensions, which may not yet be aware of its consequences. It's a deep wound to the environment and the country. And the question on everyone's lips, which Mr Mitsotakis did not answer today, is why, how, what, who is to blame? This should collectively respond with sincerity and courage, without joining the witch hunt that you so easily used from the chairs of counter-population, not to make party use of a national tragedy, but to see the causes, responsibilities and those responsible, the causes and the causes. Because without that, our political system will simply prepare the next great tragedy. The fires are not today. The climate crisis is indeed a problem-solving factor. But it cannot be the escaping mechanism from responsibilities. A serious state, a modern state doesn't chase fires, prevents them. It does not wait fatally for the effects of the climate crisis, it faces them. It does not expect the next great disaster to remind the previous one, but is taught and acting to prevent it. And that's exactly what we tried after the devastating fires in Matti, when you personally, Mr. Mitsotakis, did not hesitate to turn the pain, the sorrow, the drama, the human suffering into a tool of your micro-political, micro-political feasibility. Then we, with responsibility for the country, with responsibility for the natural environment, took responsibility for the citizens - first of all I - the political responsibility and tried to see our mistakes - did not come to say that we did not make any mistakes - but also the chronic weaknesses of the state mechanism and we tried to propose solutions for the next day. We were then recommending the Goldmer Commission. You referred to his conclusion. After all, you know that very well, because it was a prerequisite for your own consensus to be taken, because man did not want to produce a work that will go to the ballots if the government changes. The Goldmer event was officially presented in the Greek Parliament in April 19 at a joint meeting, if I am not mistaken, of the Committee on Institutions and the Environment. There was cross-party acceptance, and on the basis of this finding we started a series of interventions, which you found in progress when you took over the rule of the country, and which we expected you to continue and complete, rather than bury them deeply in your drawers, because they were supposed to have your consent and why the state was supposed to be on track. In August 1919 you received full-scale institutional tools in the fields of forest protection, to which our country had been deprived in previous years. A public forest fire prevention policy was designed and institutionalised with guaranteed funding from national and European funds of 140m euros and contained fire-fighting areas, forest roads, forest management and cleaning, pilot projects for mixed forest - housing areas based on the Goldamer finding. The Forestry Service was planned and approved to implement the fire prevention policy with five hundred executives, two hundred permanent forest and forestry posts approved by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and three hundred three-year contracts with funding from the Public Investment Programme. Started the work of forest maps. They were ratified in 45% of the whole territory, when we received only 3%, and the studies - you found them ready - for the rest of the Greek territory at 100%. At the end of 19th the studies were completed. In 1918 and 19, a programme of mutual benefits of five thousand sixty-six workers for the fire protection of forests contributed significantly to the prevention of forest fires, as demonstrated in the 19th anti-nuclear period. Cooperation in the repression and suppression of forest fires in fire and forest services was precisely established. It has also been successfully implemented in many cases, according to the Gondamer finding, and a proposal was made to prepare a major administrative reform for the reorganisation of the emergency management system and the replacement of the famous civil protection from a modern structure, the National Civil Protection and Resilience Authority, a single emergency management body with operational, operational and scientific upgrades and a permanent and permanent staff of cross-party acceptance and consent management, as foreseen by our proposal. That's what we did in a year, recognizing mistakes, pathogens, and timeless weaknesses. The question is what you have done, Mr Mitsotakis, all these interventions that you have found in progress when you took over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u8	You can give them to us in the Minutes and let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u9	Sure. I'll testify to you all, Mr. Mitsotakis, of course. And leave that arrogant style, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You don't come here as a prosecutor, you come here as an apology for the country's greatest natural disaster in recent years. That's enough of that arrogant style. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But since the Greek people are listening, the hours are critical. What have you done with these ongoing interventions? First of all, you froze and suspended recruitment to the Forest Services. You stopped the joint forest protection programme of five thousand sixty-six workers in the autumn of 1919. You have never implemented the policy to prevent forest fires in the 19th Ministerial Decision, so that we have a cumulation of fuel in the forests, which have been converted into a silhouette, and there is a serious deficit in the cleaning of forest roads and fire zones. You canceled the forest maps for the sake of the small-party benefit, for the sake of apparently political purposes, and brought Hatzidakis Environmental Law that even promotes exceptions to land under forest law. You have never actually implemented the joint ministerial decision to cooperate in firefighting, so we are witnessing a tragic failure to deal with fires, even under apnea, yes. We all know that microclimates are being created, but a first-grade child understands that it's more like having a boxer and two and another having eight. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, you have despised, you have not even brought the proposal for a law that we tabled for the new Civil Protection Body, a tabled proposal for a law, but only maintained the obsolete and, as has proved, an ineffective structure for civil protection and simply upgraded the State Secretary. By the way, I can also express to him by living the passing and wishing for his good health. You upgraded a former mayor's political staff, not a joint acceptance officer with special knowledge of Civil Protection, to the position of the State Secretary. You made a State Secretary's position. Yes, you did. At the same time, however, you have maintained and upgraded a number of executives, the same executives who had responsibility for the management of earlier fires that you from this Step of the House as a prosecutor, were urgently invoking them. And when we disembarked them, you came with the political change to upgrade them with the first and prominent Chief of Police at the time, when you upgraded him to a political leader, the Secretary General of the entire Ministry of Civil Protection, but also other officials of the Firefighting, which later on the lead of the investigations, justice has shown particular responsibilities. You keep them in their upgraded positions. Somebody will ask themselves, will one citizen be wondering: Honestly, why have you done all this? How hard was it to continue five positive things that you found from the previous government? The answer is simple: because your entire policy is short-sighted, ideological and permanently dependent on small or larger interests that define your decisions and actions. The other aspect of your inability is selfishness. You sent the Goldamer to trash, which you bragged today, moved from this Step to this and discovered it two years later, because it just didn't suit you. You didn't hire firefighters because you consider them a barbaric in the state budget. You did not go forward with the forest maps, because you want to maintain a permanent civil dependency and hostage status by the central administration and the "blue" children of self-government, so that you can maintain your clientele, as you have done for decades. Then you suddenly come and discover the climate crisis, which certainly did not exist in SYRIZA and created the two years that you are ruling. All this, however, criminal choices, mistakes, your omissions take precedence over the climate crisis, which, in order to deal with it, needs tough and courageous decisions, but, above all, needs honesty. It needs collective mobilisation in order to make it a national and social objective, with appropriate knowledge, trust in science and experts, investment where necessary. If in any natural disaster, Mr Mitsotakis, to justify your inadequacy, invoke the climate crisis without having done anything about it, you are simply delighting the importance that each citizen and the state must attach to dealing with it. Is it because of your climate crisis that you hid in your drawers of the Goldmer proposals? Is it the climate crisis that you wanted to set up a so-called state, but while maintaining this scandalous cohesiveness of dozens of ministries and bodies to prevent and deal with fires, as does the finding itself mention? There are forty-five co-ordinate bodies responsible for preventing fire and seventeen bodies and six Ministries for repression. Is that the climate crisis? Is it because of you the climate crisis that you have ignored - you have not even brought to a debate - the proposal for a law that we have tabled to establish a National Civil Protection and Resilience Authority? Obviously, it is not your fault of the climate crisis for all of this. Your political choices are. And the responsibility of these choices lies with you personally, Mr. Mitsotakis. It is neither the responsibility of one of your ministers, who sits next to you, who told us at the time of the great catastrophe that the state mechanism worked exemplarily and that he was holding the manica day. No, it's not his responsibility. It's yours. And it is neither the responsibility of the other minister, who counted three times as many planes as they were trying, nor the chief of the firefighting, who asked him in the media at the time of the great agony in Evia, who burned houses, about what was going on in Evia and replied: "I don't know. I am for three days and I am attempting in the wonderful forest of Parnitha." Of course, however, he also thanked his political leaders. That's not the responsibility either. It's yours alone. It's your responsibility. And as long as you are completely weak enough to understand this responsibility to your subordinates, as long as you are not able at the time of the crisis to show that you understand what went wrong and look for - I learn - out into reshapings and people from the democratic space to make your lifeboats, so screaming that you are neither competent to recognize nor manage it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Honestly, since you didn't do it in the first talk, I expect you to do it in your dentistry, Mr. Mitsotakis. Give me an answer. Why did you ask for "sorry"? Do you understand why you asked for "sorry"? What was your mistake? After you told us today that you didn't make any mistakes. Why did you ask for "sorry"? Have you understood your mistakes? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would also like a clear answer to the shocking complaints made by the District Director of Central Greece. You know, I found myself at the time of the battle in Evia, Lake. You have 15 days and not a single government official dared to step on Evia! Not you, but not a government executive, to hit the back and give a message of comfort. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I met this man. It doesn't matter that we're from opposite political spaces. He was there with the Mayor of Lake Mandudi and the Prefectors of the prefecture and was in the front line, with a sincere agony. He's a young man. At that moment, of course, what he intended was to save anything if saved. The image transmitted was an outrage picture, not only of the citizens, but also of the local government, of how the fire brigades were coordinated at that time at the time of critical. Of course, I was amazed at the fact that your office called the mayor so that he wouldn't go out to the media and be critical of the government. Others should be instruction at that time, not threats. Of course, I saw yesterday's interview with the district manager, in which he stated that the fire brigades had an order of no suppression. That's a very heavy complaint, if that's true. And let me address...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u10	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u11	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u12	A witness on the regional board...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u13	Now, who's talking? Does Mr. Tsipras or his colleagues speak? Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u14	So I saw the district manager make this statement. I would therefore like the official lips of Mr Mitsotakis to provide an explanation for this. Allow me to speak personally. I personally address you, but trying to measure my words. It is time to realize, Mr Mitsotakis, that you alone have a full and absolute political responsibility for the fires, not only for the tragic mistakes and omissions you are reluctant to recognise - since fifteen days later they are next to you, all as if nothing had happened - and not only for your criminal political choices to fly into the basket of unpopularly prepared plans for the prevention and reorganisation of forest and civil protection, but above all because you have demonstrated an incredible lightness that characterizes you, of course, all this time. You have shown an incredible lack of understanding of what is happening, because it is happening and what can happen. You have shown an unprecedented lack of consciousness about the reality, the dangers and the tragedy of the people of society. Aren't you the autonician of the high-priced state, who you advertised as the epitome of modern administration? Where was that state in the hours of fire when despair and rage reached the last house? Where was he? Did you not gather all the powers in your office in the name of efficiency and did you, and in an unscrupulous manner today, compares to persons? So where was that effectiveness of the terrible technocrats you have next to you? Didn't you say on 11 May that we have more staff this year, better instruments, better organisation and a better overall organisation of this House and of civil protection? Where was all this when citizens were begging for help when they became ashes 1.3 million acres? Where were you, when he was ashed over five hundred thousand acres in Evia and forty thousand people were ordered to evacuate? Didn't you also say on 24 May that a special, rather more specialized, plan has been drawn up for the protection of Attica's Peripheral Forests, which are so important for the environmental microclimate of the entire Lecade? Where was this special plan, when the Adames, Barumbas, Tatoi, Thracomacedones, Aphednes, Krioneri, before the evil came to the rest of Attica, to Villah and Keratea? I'm sorry to say this, but behind all this, Mr. Mitsotakis, it's you or more rightly you are all that. You. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This unprecedented catastrophe tore up the encampment of the temple around you. And you know what? What everyone has seen causes insecurity, even fear, because it causes fear for a Prime Minister, who does not only lack the ability to run, but also lacks the elementary ability to understand the extent of the damage he has caused, a Prime Minister who, at the time of a tragedy, proves that he cannot feel the pain and anxiety of others, even those who trusted him, and goes up to this step by smiling. You didn't stop having the smile painted on your face as long as you were talking, Mr. Mitsotakis, and you did the same thing at the press conference you gave. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is it a smiling success? Is it a smile of irony to all of us ignorant? What exactly is it? This smile, however, laughter, on direct transmission, seen by the affected at the time of your interview, you know, multiply pain, multiply despair, rage. I don't know if you're indifferent because you don't understand or understand because you're indifferent. In any case, however, the attempt to manage, in terms of communication and personal image, a national tragedy does not only haunt extreme incompetence, it is disrespectful to every citizen in this country who sees his country burned and gives rise to feelings of anger, but something worse, to shame. You've lived your myth for a while. The country paid heavy costs for this myth. But unfortunately, you do not even now show that you can be detached from the myth and land in the harsh reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that for us, the issue of the performance of responsibilities is not solved by caratosis, reformation and movements of the zombie policies that Mr Mitsotakis has before him, and, indeed, by holiday movements, because the responsibility - I repeat - is one, has the same owner and that is what the citizens recognize. But the crucial thing for us today is that these citizens see prospects and hope again. That is why we have tabled a proposal for seven points from the first time, instead of cries for resignation. We have proposed that all the necessary areas be immediately declared refreshable. Prohibit any change of use until spatial and urban planning is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u15	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u16	I would remind you of the proposals. You'll tell what happened and what didn't happen. Don't be anxious. Secondly, we have called for a national plan to be developed in cooperation with all parties and scientific bodies to address the climate crisis and the consequences of natural disasters. Thirdly, even now, we must make use of this conclusion of the World War II to deal with fires, with emphasis on the prevention and management of forest ecosystems, with the active involvement of local communities. Fourthly, implement the comprehensive proposal for a law that we tabled in 2019 for the establishment of a National Civil Protection and Resilience Authority, which will not change every time a government changes, and establish a National Emergency Management System in order to form the national guide and model for emergency management in the country. Fifthly, we have called for local development plans to be drawn up for the reconstruction and development of the affected areas, with particular attention being paid to the local production model and special care to keep the population in the affected areas. Sixth - and this is crucial, Mr Mitsotakis - to redesign the direction of the recovery fund and the new NSRP in order to fund a national climate change action plan and the local reconstruction plans for Northern Evia and the other areas affected, taking Portugal as an example, which submitted an integrated and costly plan for the use of European resources for the protection of its forests, because it was also afflicted with fires in 2017. Finally, we asked for a plan to be drawn up immediately for compensation and for the viability of the affected areas to be restored. We asked you for responsibility, we asked you for consultation and cooperation with the local communities and political forces, and we asked you for a plan for the immediate and medium-term healing of the wounds. Instead, you continued the trumped-up of propaganda and beauty. You have baptized the fixed aid that has always been given as the greatest compensation ever given. What did you do? EUR 1 000 was always compensated for surfaces as a hundred and fifty square meters, and you said for the first time that 150,000 euros would be paid to every affected person. Make the multiplication. It's always been given. And you hid in the trick of an advance payment of this aid that you did not further give the 6 and 8 grand for houses and businesses respectively and that much of that compensation would be a loan, interest-free loan, but a loan. These people will be found in debt. And you said you would bypass every bureaucracy, just like you did in other cases of natural disasters. Only I want to remind you that the earthquakes I visited in Thessaly for six months had only received EUR 600 and only ten days ago were the expenditure related to their compensation. I hope your final state, as proved in Thessaly and in the case of fires, is not so fast. But very quickly, I must admit, you have moved on your own, without any consultation with anyone - I imagine, or even with your MPs, because I have not seen such a strong response to the choice - the head of the Evia Committee, without any agreement with the parties at the inter-party parliamentary level, but, above all, without any consultation with the local community, it is a key sign that you are continuing to go on the same path of impression, political feasibility and communication. Now, however, this is not the time for the impressions, the political translations that will create a climate of enthusiasm in the stands. Now is the time of substance and act and not the hour of great speech. The people who have seen their properties become ashes, the people who have lived all these years, who have had income from their lands that are coal today, are now facing - not tomorrow, today - the extreme problem of survival. They are fighting how their children will live from September, now, what income they will have in the next few days, in the next few months, until the good of building up reconstruction plans for their region. That is why we are coming here today with a proposal - not of substance - and we ask you, we ask you to adopt the proposal immediately and for as long as necessary for the farmers affected, farmers, resin producers, oil producers in northern Euboea, Elias, Mani or any other region affected, the emergency income we have proposed, but refused, for the first months of a pandemic,... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...the emergency income: for each household 400 euros the first member, plus 200 euros the second member, plus 100 euros each child on a monthly basis, until they stand on their feet until these plans are implemented. Welcome when they arrive, but until then what will these people become? And we ask you to adopt this as a fundamental sign of understanding the problem facing the affected regions. It is a national need to heal the wounds of the disaster in the parts of the disaster and everything that applies to any region affected. Let us not forget that this catastrophic summer began with a huge disaster in Geragna. All those affected must have the same attitude, anywhere, no one must be forgotten. In addition to supporting the wounded, however, we must see how we can heal our collective wounds as a society. Because every citizen today shares a common feeling: insecurity. And it's ironic, tragic irony, Mr. Mitsotakis, for making your security a pre-election flag. But you identified it with the police repression, the incidents against young people, the police at universities, the police everywhere. You hired cops, equipped cops. You've invested in patrol cars and handcuffs. But you left forests without protection, fire-fighting without means and personnel, fire-fighting without plan, citizens unprotected. And when the time came for the crisis, the people on the front of the fire instead of firemen were looking at DIA patrols and motorcycles. The irony, then, is that while you made the issue of your security a pre-election flag, a flag of convenience, the political legacy of your two years in power is the insecurity and fear that today holds the vast majority of Greek citizens. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the end of May, Mr Mitsotakis, you declared to the "BILD" that things will remind us of a very normal summer this year. And today, one week before the summer ends, we count a record of burnt areas, a record of cases and dead per 100 000 population from the pandemic, which fluffs again, with half the population unfortunately inconvenience, with intensive treatment units refilling. And in the economy we are measuring rises in scary product prices. A new wave of precision comes to make the lives of thousands of households inviolable, with uncontrolled increases in raw materials prices everywhere, in the construction industry, in the electricity bill. Greece in the summer that passed us had the most expensive power in wholesale, which now goes to the consumer. Two consumers already find it difficult to pay the electricity bill and the same situation prevails in agricultural and livestock products for our farmers. What does that mean, Mr. Mitsotakis? That you have carried out tests and failed miserably: in pandemic, fires, social cohesion, security, the safe everyday life of the citizen, the protection of the country and its people, at a heavy cost to society. You were completely incapable of extinguishing a fire, but extremely capable all this time with your political choices to widen social inequalities. With your choice, you left thirty thousand young people out of HR this year. With your choice, too, you left eighty-three thousand outside childcare facilities. With your choice you abolished the eighth hour and introduced for the first time unpaid overtime. Even on the issue of mass sport, with your choice, you are cutting off this year's mass sporting programs involving a hundred twenty thousand fellow citizens and a thousand three hundred trainers are unemployed. All your choices are choices toward the people's interests and to serve the interests of a few and selected. And in the question “What can one expect from you and your Government?” answer your works and your results. Nothing good. No Prime Minister has done so much damage in such a short time. You represent failure, idolatry of privatization and profit, contempt for the social majority. You failed at the pandemic and announced the privatisation of the ERC. You failed the fires and announced the privatisation of the forests. You have failed to protect and protect the citizen's security and you are proclaiming measures of authoritarianism and division. But I would like to say, Mr Mitsotakis, that this is a time when there will be a different message of evacuation in 112. This time it will not be from you to the citizens, but from the citizens to you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, for us, as for all democratic opposition, there is at present a very serious challenge, an urgent challenge. Despair and anger turn into a power of change, power and energy, to change our country's course. And as far as we are concerned, we will work with all our powers so that this soon happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u17	It is now up to Mrs Fotini Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, three months ago you assured us that the pandemic is under control, that the vaccinations are progressing quickly, that the country is opening safely for tourism and that your state is ready to face any fires. Today it is clear that you have failed at all levels. The pandemic is here again threatening. Yesterday, record cases were reported. Vaccination is not progressing satisfactorily. You didn't manage to catch the targets, which you yourself had set yourself. Yesterday you came and announced a new package of measures, but, Prime Minister, it will be decided whether there will at last be effective state mechanisms to monitor the implementation of these measures. And I stress this because, particularly during the summer season, there was absolutely no control. You have an absolute responsibility for relaxation and for cultivating reassurance. You have not supported as you should, even today that we are talking about, the National Health System to withstand possible pressure in the next period. You have not succeeded in persuading the citizens on the issue of vaccination. You have a responsibility for the split right now in the country and we should not in any way relive the nightmare of autumn 2020. And the fire disaster is unprecedented. The inability of your so-called state of service has proved. The Government's Civil Protection System has been tried and failed. There was no prevention system, and the lack of coordination of the authorities led to a tragic alalum, resulting in residents, volunteers and self-government people shouting for days about fighting alone. The fires, Mr. Mitsotakis, are not erased with a communication show. Your excuses and pretext apologies are unconvincing. Your responsibilities are great and we insist that they must be taken away from the position of your competent ministers. When do you expect to do that? You came here today to tell us that you achieved your goals, with the forests smoking, with forests dying, with the anger and indignation in Greek society. I only have to tell you after the theory that you have developed us about any 'orphan' mistakes there have been is that since the apology was discovered, Prime Minister! Of course, it's always the New Democracy's fault. In 2007, you told us that it was'strong wind' and that you had elections on the beauties and the dead, sharing thousands of euros, without procedures, without bureaucracy. You knew why you did it and how you did it. And now in 2021, apnea, you remembered climate change, climate crisis, but you cannot explain why our country is the first in Europe - it holds this sad privilege! - it is first in Europe in the burnt areas per fire, according to information from the European Forest Fire Information System. Are the other Mediterranean countries not affected by the climate crisis? Almost one and a half million acres of woodland burned, eight and a half times more than in previous years. Forests, cultures, houses in Evia, Elias, Gortynia, North Attica, Achaia, Bilia, Messinia, Mani were lost. In several of these areas, residents are despaired, feel that their future has been burned in the debris. The productive base of these areas has been destroyed. They won't have a job for years. I visited most of the affected areas myself. The word dominating everyone's lips know what it is? Abandonment. What you have told us in your prototype has nothing to do with reality, with the results of your policy, with the results of your ministers' work, with what people feel today in all these areas. And they don't just feel it, see it, experience it and experience it for decades. They were begging for help, for more fire-fighting vehicles and mostly more air means. They denounce the lack of any plan to suppress the fire. The voice of the locals, who knew where to stop it, did not hear what the critical points were, and most of the time the fires turned out to be at sea. It has already been said - but I cannot say again, we are not simply criticising - that the President of Central Greece, your executive, said, denounced the regional council that there was an order of non-repression. You have an answer, Prime Minister, for that. You should call him at least to substantiate his complaint. And I wonder if justice should call him to talk about all of this, unless you yourself think he's not a serious person, so that he can base what he says. Put, however, in your dentistry and take a position on what has been said! You told us that this year we had the most airplanes in every other year. Can you tell us how much they were trying and how much they were trying in each area and who was finally deciding at the Business Centre for the allocation of air means? For those interviews which have so far been answered clearly, we have not received any clear answers. On June 15, Prime Minister, at the joint press conference given by your ministers, Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Hardalias, the Minister for Civil Protection said, first of all, that "I would like to say, first of all, that an extremely pilot work has been done on the fire protection of our country, a real cut this year, not only in terms of instruments and equipment, but also in terms of staff. However, I would like to point out that a model job has been done on the perception and understanding of the problem of fire protection in our country. We now have a new approach', he said, 'focusing on prevention, preparedness and intervention before evil occurs. The aim of all of us is, as far as possible, to prevent danger, no," he says, "the retrospective misinterpretation of what could have been done." And the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection informed us that we are going through the anti-nuclear period and their design - says - has in the heart the rapid detection and immediate response, and the more immediate the intervention is, the sooner the damping is completed, before the fire can spread. There is no need for any comment on my part, the results speak for themselves. Along with the burnt-outs, political emotiveness has been lost. It's absolutely obvious and today more obvious than ever. Mr Mitsotakis, in the murderous fire in Matti, huge deficiencies and problems have emerged in the current civil protection system at the time. Who, however, has the responsibility that, after two years of your own governance, is actually the same system, since the law that you voted has been left on paper and has never been implemented? In short, not only have you upgraded the operational managers and accountants, but you have maintained exactly the same fire management system in Matti, a system of overconcentrating, inefficient, failed. Mr Mitsotakis, it was indeed the priority that we should not mourn victims. However, it is only the evacuation of regions at the same time as abandoning homes, crops and forests that is not a serious project for a favoured society. We are not responsible for the decision'saving lives and for the rest we are not even dealing with'. You choose to put the bar down. You are only interested in comparison with SYRIZA and indeed in tragic events, and I understand the difficulty of the position of Officerial Opposition, although I would now expect a word of self-criticism for what has been done. The word "self-criticism" was not heard either by the government or by the Civic Opposition, despite what we have tragically lived in this place. But society has not voted for you for that. The citizens expected of you what you promised will be safe with you and failed, Mr Mitsotakis. Your so-called finally state, building only communications, collapsed. Today everyone knows what the reality is. That you were wrong, of course, was evident even before the last nightmare day of the major fires. They burned the Geraneas on May 19th and you hadn't even made sure that there were the means to be rented. It was - it says - very early. On July 15 the official figures showed that until then, in the first half of the only two and a half months of the anti-nuclear period, the burnt areas were about eighteen thousand acres, when the average of the previous twelve years during the corresponding period was about twenty - nine thousand acres. We are talking about an increase of over 400% in the first few months of the anti-missile period. And then, you with your ministers were admiring yourself in public, instead of being overthrown and seriously concerned with the problem that existed. The climate crisis is a real fact. But it's not an alibi for your government's failure. It requires changes everywhere. Political Protection had to be transformed into a public security policy. We have proposed that you have not done so. The national disaster risk reduction policy has been left on paper. No operational plans were drawn up, never the necessary national mechanism was established, never operated the Regional Operational Centres for Civil Protection. Everything focuses on the political leadership of civil protection, even by neglecting the physical leadership of the Fire Corps, without any substantial involvement of self-government, whether at regional or local level. In the end, proof of failure was that you suspended the basic articles of the law that you were unable to implement, except those relating to the firefighting personnel, because you wanted to be able to make your secrets, because only with that logic are you, Prime Minister. In the system of prevention and forest protection, the shortcomings have been and are dramatic. There is sub-financing and tragic sub-delegation in all the forests and forests. Only 10% of the funds requested for prevention were allocated. Anti-nuclear zones did not exist, so did forest roads. Infrastructures, tanks, fountains and no generators, so that they do not operate without power. No concern about the cleaning up of forests and raisins. The lack of a special plan in the fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting and, of course, complicated competences for fire-fighting, forging, decentralised administrations, which, instead of effective intervention, led to an unacceptable ping-poong of responsibility. There was no coordination, there was no plan at the time of the crisis. When many fire outbreaks occurred, there was no special action plan, and the authorities were following a 'youroushi' system, inefficient and devastating for firefighters. The delays, for example, in Evia were tragic. The ground forces were strengthened very slowly, when the fire had now escaped. In fact, you yourself today admitted that Evia entered second degree when there was the resurgence of Varube and pulled the air means to strengthen Varube. But there is also a question of this and I will return to the refreshment. The mistakes succeeded with each other, resulting in the escaping of the refreshments in both Zeria and Varybobe and Elias, and the day before yesterday in Vilia. There was no criterion for changes in the priority action of air or ground means. I, too, really, ask, Prime Minister, why didn't it come out from the beginning, from the first day, for the army to guard the areas for refreshment? Because the greatest disasters came from refreshments. And after you saw what happened in Zeria, didn't you make sure to prepare yourself for the next time and face Barumbas and mourn Evia? And you're saying today that you achieved all your goals because you prepared too well? But it doesn't even fit in the logic of what we heard today from you! It was incomplete to equip and train staff. In fact, the commanding of the fire department was on party criteria. There have been very positive comments about the Romanians and their excellent organization, while our people are friendly, but what to do that they do not have in and fight even with radios from the last century! But the organization of the fire department has proved inadequate too. There are party criteria both in the distribution of staff and in the selection of executives. So I ask you directly about this: Who is to blame? Will anyone take responsibility, Mr. Mitsotakis? The relevant ministers are still in place and say that they did everything well. In fact, after the first fire in Barumbas, they publicly rejoiced, talking about an amazing work that yielded fruit. Was it so out of reality? It's all about communication for your government, about what impressions you will finally create? Doesn't it count the result? You said in 2018 after Eye, I read exactly the tweet you made: "I cannot understand what political responsibility means without any resignation. The liability shall be accompanied by acts, otherwise it shall serve only communications purposes.’ I, Prime Minister, fully agree with your words. Do you still agree with what you wrote? Because we do not see it in practice. It seems that your attitude is different today when you are Prime Minister. It is precisely the attitude of the previous Prime Minister, who today appeared unrepentant. Like playing a strange game you two, "Who is who". Finally, whoever is in this position from New Democracy and SYRIZA behaves in the same way? Perhaps this is the huge difference with the progressive fact that we care, fight, and we will continue to do so! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the next day, to what we think needs to be done. The next day requires consultation, which you have not done so far at no level, on any matter at all. I want to hope that after this huge catastrophe something can change. So the first thing to do is to directly record the damages and the compensation to support the affected. The relief measures announced are necessary, but are not enough. The lost income of farmers and farmers should be covered for at least three to five years and aid should be given to replace the natural and livestock capital. A special plan is needed for rhein-collectors in northern Evia. We have heard that you intend to do so and we will monitor it, because you know here, Mr Mitsotakis, their profession disappears. They don't need just support for one or two years. For the next thirty years these people will not be able to do the same thing. They have to change direction. And those who are close to retirement should also be helped to retire for others to have an integrated programme. Aid must also be granted to enterprises which are not able to operate for a long time after this disaster, because they will not have raw materials. There are too many companies in these areas that are related to activities that are currently not implemented. Household assistance should be given to 100% to rebuild or repair all damaged homes. Not enough interest-free loans. The citizens are not responsible for the damage they have suffered. I must remind you that most of the settlements and houses saved by residents and volunteers. The damage would have been much bigger. Tax, insurance and banking obligations must be suspended in the affected areas. Special attention is needed for the compensation of forest workers and for their priority employment in rehabilitation work. We have heard something about'reafforestation contractors'. Forests cannot be given to individuals. Local society, regional and local authorities should be involved and contributed. As a matter of priority, the activities of the anti-flood and anti-corrosion projects, as well as the care and reforestation of forests, should be dealt with by people who have so far worked and know better than anyone else in the forest. In any case, a guaranteed income should be introduced for farmers, professionals, workers who have proved to have been affected for as long as they need to, until they give up any reconstruction programme. Second priority, direct anti-corrosion and anti-corrosion projects and the establishment of a national plan for protection against forest fires and reafforestations. I am pleased that the issue of proclaiming the reafforestation of all burnt-in areas is already moving forward. We must begin without delay work on burnt-outs in order to avoid new disasters from the rains of autumn. It is very close in the autumn, and we need to run, to find the studies, projects, resources, to proceed with the procedures, not to get involved in bureaucracy, because we are going to have new disasters and, of course, to finance the municipalities for the necessary projects. A comprehensive prevention project is needed, with forest roads, anti-nuclear zones, and the creation of sufficient tanks with generators and substituting the energy network wherever needed and feasible. In addition, integrated forest management policies, aimed at reducing fuels, reducing risks, and training for operators and residents with local early warning systems. Third priority is the creation of a public security system to deal with all risks and of course the clearing of responsibilities. Public security system means that there is a horizontal structure, an upgraded General Secretariat for Civil Protection that plans, monitors implementation and assesses all threats and risks. The horizontal structure will confer responsibilities for all phases of civil protection, for prevention, preparedness, repression and compensation to regional and local government. Central and self-government services will be networked with a view to the rapid exchange of information and coordination of their actions. Furthermore, no one will be able to replace the operational units in the battlefield, for example the Firefighting. In short, the role of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and the creation of political units for the protection of regions and municipalities. It is also time to finally move on to national climate law. I heard you're willing to bring him in. I'm glad it's our proposal. Our proposal is always on the table. [[Applause]] And fourthly, and equally importantly, the establishment for each of the regions affected - not only for Evia, which is absolutely right - of a specific development programme, which will be managed by a special development company in the region, involving all actors. That is our proposal and it is an institutional proposal. Reconstruction programmes must create a new pattern of development in each region, given that many of the traditional activities will not be possible for many years. It is therefore necessary to design, studies, incentives for insurance and taxation to create new businesses in the region and to reconstruct existing ones, to create new tourist identity, to develop the EIAs, but not for a few and large, weight in farming, but also to develop innovative and high technological enterprises. Supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and self-employment in all these regions, providing information on new opportunities and consultancy services for new investments and specific OAED programmes to cover workers who lose their jobs, but over time brave labour subsidy through tax exemptions for the recruitment of unemployed people in new activities, as well as rehabilitation actions, education and retraining of them in the new data to be created and in new requirements, in order not to remain out of production in the coming years, and intervention to restore and improve infrastructure and networks. Especially in Evia, which is far behind, it is very important that you give priority to infrastructure and, above all, to roads. It is an opportunity for the reconstruction programmes to create an over-local development polo for each region, with a specific development identity. I have referred to such a specific proposal for the region of Ancient Olympia on the basis of the ‘brand-location-product’ tripartite which upgrades and expands economic activity throughout the region. Ladies and gentlemen, resources can come from reorientation, change in the priorities of the Reconstruction Fund, but also from the ESDP and the new CAP programme. Even a single euro must not be made available without criteria, without transparency, without specific targets and without accountability. That is why we are calling for every programme to be discussed in the committee responsible, which will approve it and monitor its course. We have to monitor these resources in order. It is extremely important, as I have said before, that there should be transparency and accountability. The reconstruction of the areas is a task which, in any case, goes beyond the government mandate of the New Democracy. The new development, therefore, in these affected areas must be green, not green, for great interests. The Change Movement will not accept type 2007 solutions that have failed miserably and have left heavy shadows for the financial management of the fund by the then government of New Democracy. The shareholders and managers of the programmes must be the institutions and residents of the regions. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall not allow whole regions to be abandoned, nor to become hostages of great private interests. Our goal is to grow hope in the burnt, and that is why we will control the government and put pressure on it at every step of the way from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u19	And we thank Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u20	We want today and from this Step forward to express our solidarity and solidarity with all those who have lived through the fire nightmare, to all those who have seen their homes destroyed, their place, their lives. We're together in the fight to stand back on their feet, take their lives back. And the crucial thing is to support all those affected and finally to reinstate what the fire has destroyed, but it is so crucial that criminal responsibilities are not forgotten, that the causes be raised, how and why we have come to this point, that all the necessary conclusions are reached. You can ask for any apologies you want, invoke errors, omissions, promise that responsibilities will be attributed. But here we're not talking about another summer with big, multi-day fires. We are talking about a huge ecological disaster, the destruction of popular property. Over a million thousands of acres have become ashes along with houses and crops. This huge disaster is not due to some individual mistakes, some individual omissions. Besides, your ministers at the beginning of the anti-nuclear period assured all tons that an extremely pilot job has been supposedly done, a real cut this year, not only in terms of instruments, equipment but also staff. That's what they said. But the problem lies in the absence of integrated forest management and protection. In this context, too, there is a lack of a modern comprehensive anti-nuclear protection plan, focusing on prevention, specialising for each forest complex. Such an integrated scientific plan did not have either the Government of New Democracy or any previous government. Unless SYRIZA tells us that by leaving to the government drawers at least no such plan, rather than some fragmentary measures, that are moving on the ground. We have heard the climate crisis, unprecedented nature attack and so on. As if it takes a lot of brains to understand that this is more than always true and will be much more valid in the future. That is why a state, a government, for these negative scenarios, must prepare itself for such crises and problems. Unfortunately, however, your urban state and your government, precisely because they go with the interests of the few, with the interests of the groups and not the many, of the Greek people, do not take measures to protect the life, the property of the Greek people, because they consider them to be cost. Trained proof that not only are you not prepared, but you are already using the climate crisis as an excuse for covering your shortcomings, gaps, huge shortcomings. So tell us, Mr Mitsotakis and all of you who have made candy the climate crisis and you swear to the environment. Is it the climate crisis that gave Attica just 30,000 euros for forest roads this year? Is it the climate crisis that the average age of fire extinguishers is forty-five or fifty years old, depleted by huge movements and constant care? In Gerenia Ores you moved firefighters even from Evros. And then it's your fault of the climate crisis? We're not ashamed! As far as we are concerned, this year's major disasters were thirty years ago. For example, in 1988, thirty - three years ago, a million acres of forest and agricultural land were burned in our country. In 1999, twenty-two years ago, most of the fires have been recorded over the past twenty-five years. In 2000, twenty-one years ago, it was the greatest disaster. Burned 1.6 million acres. Same with the floods. In March 1987, thirty - four years ago, in the great floods, we had ten dead. In August 1990 another great flood drowned five people in central Greece and November 1992 a strong rain leveled Kavala, destroying 70% of its road network and killing four people. Then, of course, no one has yet been talking about climate change as the perfect alibi for all disasters. Even if we accept that these disasters were the first signs of climate change, what prevented you all of you, who have constantly ruled for more than thirty years now, to take measures, to adapt plans, to build up infrastructure to limit damage, to protect the people? The answer is one: the policy of supporting capitalist profits at the expense of people's needs and interests. The New Democracy Government has no doubt the first responsibility today, but all those who have ruled are in the bunker of responsibilities and not out of it. You've all got your nest dirty. In time you have committed criminals against the people, against forests and the environment. What government, while forests accounted for 65% of our country's territory, gave more than 0.04% of the state budget for forests and their protection? What government has strengthened the forests so that they can meet the enormous needs of forest protection? The New Democracy since the 17.7m euros demanded by forests throughout the country for anti-nuclear armour projects has credited only 1.7m euros, which is only 10% of their needs. Here, too, SYRIZA again cannot be justified, because for his days, during the period 2016-2019, he gave even less. For the protection of the people against fires you do not have, you say, money, but to fund the Greek mission in Afghanistan for so many years you find 300 million a year. In fact, you were not even enough in the second place as Greece for naval spending. You have allocated EUR 6.6 billion to reach the top position. Which government has gone ahead with the abolition of the unscientific division of forest protection with the criminal, the murderous separation of prevention from fire-fighting? Nothin'. You have all maintained this crime, which the people have been paying for over twenty years with great damage to forest wealth and human life. This unscientific separation, the separation of prevention from fire suppression is a key cause for the negative situation. Indeed, in services which have a different role and direction and are not coordinated in the same Ministry. This whole situation is, of course, dramatically exacerbated by seeing it in conjunction with zero funding and huge shortages in staff and resources. Not only did this scheme lead to a unity of instruments and actions, but it also led to a greater underfunding of all the services involved. The depreciation of total staff and resources. We see you, Mrs. Gennamas, coming out on the tiles. Well, I'm sure someone's right to say. But you don't know anything about all this? You and your party, who has been ruling for so many years, have you not got any responsibility? And yet, this unscientific division of forest protection by separating prevention from repression was institutionalised on your day, in 1998, on the PASOK government with the Prime Minister of Simitis. Today many of those who supported this separation make their self-criticism, seeing the tragic results of this choice. You, gentlemen of KINAL, of the past PASOK, have you nothing to say about that? Which government was aiming at integrated forest management and protection? None. All of you are facing the forest as the field of an appalling capitalist development of profitability. All of you, with no exception, were building on each other with the laws for the rapid merchandise of the earth. Thus, the New Democracy has established the so-called 'new forest policy', recognising the activities of monopolistic groups in forest ecosystems. SYRIZA as a government with a series of laws on grazing land, on settlements, called forest land. In fact, a law passed in 2017 by SYRIZA exempted large groups in the tourism sector from all the prohibitions of an arbitrary system. You have all taken the same dangerous path, overlooking integrated management, forest protection. This means a study of forest management, with interventions in vegetation composition, logging, forestry works, maintenance, improvement of infrastructure and networks. It means a modern study of anti-nuclear protection, including all measures, forestry, management, anti-nuclear, in accordance with the rules of science, which increase the forest's ability to face fire before it erupts. It means ensuring the conditions for implementation through brave funding, with recruitment of permanent staff, ensuring all the necessary means. What government has served adequately with the necessary permanent staff, with modern means, with infrastructure, the Fire Corps, which continues to operate with the philosophy and structure of the Security Corps, with what this implies for its own operation and its role? I don't want to say much. You're saying that yourself, for the seasonal fire extinguisher personnel who's old, for the extinguisher media that's outdated. I would just like to point out that no one intentionally points out, which relates to the weakening of their operational planning. Who is responsible for the fact that about a thousand firefighters are operating at the airports of FRAPORT, on the private roads, on the "Eleftherios Venizelos" from the day it was privatised? Why does none of you say a word about it? Obviously why you do not want so-called "investors" and the financial facilities you provide them to be targeted. Well, whatever you do, the center of criminal responsibilities has you all inside. Of course, the Government of New Democracy is causing upwards when it says that its main objective was to protect human life. There is no second thought, of course, that it is very important that we do not mourn human lives. It is a challenge, however, to invoke it by saying, in fact, that 'no whole settlement has been lost.' What settlement are you talking about? This is where entire areas have been destroyed. An entire area, northern Evia, has disappeared. Have you gotten it? The fact that there were no victims or even that an entire settlement was not burned was due first of all to the self-determination, the self-sacrifice of the inhabitants, who along with the few firemen, fought a body with fires and managed to save their home, their lives, their villages. The hierarchy you're doing, and especially in this tragedy, to let the forest burn down in the name of life protection, has failed miserably, because they burned over a million acres of forests, crops, finals and houses, if you wait for the fire by the houses, you don't stop it. The forest fire can and must stop in the woods the first ten, fifteen minutes if you don't want to take uncontrollable proportions. The problem cannot be solved by air means. The main burden was to prevent and should be given to modern anti-nuclear design in the context of integrated forest management and protection and the organisation of ground forces for the first insult. You, instead of hiring and organising ground forces, instead of implementing them through the forest services - by recruiting staff, scientific, woodworker, to be used for projects in winter and summer in forest fires and others, by carrying out studies, management projects and fire protection - what are you doing? You only go further than that for the air that they need, but they are not the main instrument. These are mainly slowing down, slowing down evolution. The earthly powers, however, erase the forest fires. The scattered ground forces make the first insult to the forest, based on the specific anti-nuclear design. You flagged your evacuations, evacuations without a plan, without education, without a concentration infrastructure, without ensuring that all conditions are met. Where they happened, they became horizontal, without having secured an organised evacuation mechanism. Villages where in some cases you were sending people into flames by mistake, avoiding fatality precisely because people knew their place, villages, detonated the fires and did not die in the wrong orders. I was also a personal witness to such an event, in the course of a fire, which I made an intervention for it, about what he sent and what a message he gave. And yet, if anything you should have ensured after the tragedy in the Eye that was that. And not "evacuate", that is, "Wait to be saved". The responsibilities are therefore not being ignored. Your perseverance, in fact, before well - well - is extinguished, to have the debate over the next day, do not think it will relieve you of these responsibilities. On the contrary. The more you talk about the so-called green transition imposed by the climate crisis, the more you nail yourself. As you have been ready for some time to show as a unique way out the so-called green business, except that business on the burnt, only green is not. These are also about environmental protection reports for primary schoolchildren. And the so-called 'green' development, which is naturally a pretext for the environment, is intended to make young children, the aim is to create greater profitability rates for some new investments in the green energy sector and in various other sectors of the economy. Everyone knows that the forest is the only social asset, the only natural resource that, through its operation, encapsulates carbon and produces oxygen, subject to its unique management and protection, in order to improve its supply. How hypocritical is your green sensitivity? How false is your interest in the supposed treatment of any climate change? There, in the large groups of so-called 'green' development, the resources of the European Union's Recovery Fund will also be directed. It is no coincidence that both you of the government and you of the Opposition support the interventions for the Recovery Fund for the most famous green development. But when we talk about a Recovery Fund, we are talking about this new memorial, which the people will constantly pay, and transport and literally. Suffice it to think that, for each disbursement, anti-corruption measures should be introduced, such as your recent legislative monstrous regime that trespasses labour rights. And, as anyone can understand, the billion euro cobbler from the Fund will not go to public health, education, wages, pensions, the improvement of social services, will not go to projects of vital importance for the protection of the people against natural disasters, will not go to support for small businessmen, but to finance green business. We heard you say that your government wants and knows and can rebuild what the fires have broken, that your commitment is to regain what we have lost. This means that all the forest land that has been burnt, but without contractors, as you painted the big businessmen who will run their plans in the burned areas, must be immediately resurrected. It is necessary to ensure integrated forest management and protection. The subjection, in fact, of the Forest Service at the Ministry of Environment and Energy comes to link forests even further with harmful green investments in the energy sector. For the people's families who have been destroyed, 'to regain what we have lost and resurrect them', as Mr Mitsotakis said, do you know what it means? Stay where they are, get back what's lost, home, work, income. This was said by the thousands of northern Evia residents on Saturday in the Strofykia hub, you mentioned, at a large gathering, but buried by the media. You are afraid, you are shaking the people's initiative, popular mobilisation and action, people's control, because you know that the popular wrath of these false words, the big ones will come out of you politically. They want their homes, their jobs, their forests, their jobs, their crops, their livelihoods, their income. This is what the people in Evia, Elias, Arcadia, Messinia, all of Attica and the other regions want. The measures that your Government has announced so far do not guarantee any of this. All that can somehow alleviate firefighting is compensation for 100% of damage, full recovery of the income lost and for as long as the consequences exist. For example, in northern Evia there are many farmers, farmers, retinas. All of these lived in direct or indirect dependence on the forest. Until this returns to the position which contributes to the production and the corresponding amount of resin, honey cannot be covered with the benefits, which have a specific time horizon. Also, how will olive oil yield within two or even four years, on the basis of what you say about the time when oilseed producers have lost olive groves of many years that cannot be replaced in immediate time? The allowance you're going to give them what he's going to cover in the first place? Is the fixed financial costs, the new costs added to a firefighting family for its survival, or what results in the creation, maintenance, construction of agricultural land, pastures and others? Where will these be covered? The cessation of payments for three years is a drop in the ocean. He cannot give a breath of relief to the firemen, who for the next few years must rebuild their lives from the beginning. What about these properties that have not been proven by your checks are completely destroyed, as you say, or have suffered functional damage? I mean, a farmer who has lost his income, but his home has not suffered any operational damage, will he continue to pay HIS VIA for that and with what income? Small self-employed professionals are on the air. In northern Evia, as in other regions, there are many sections that are active in tourism, foodism, as regions - and especially northern Evia - attracted too many tourists because of their natural wealth. How will these small businesses survive? By not returning the refundable payment? Did you forget that this money was given to support the consequences of the pandemic? Now, even if they manage to build their businesses, they have to deal with the new overall situation in the region, which is now a skull site, while the trade fee and insurance contributions are suspended for six months, as if after six months, companies will stop being affected. Let's not talk about the indemnity you have announced. There is no guarantee from anywhere yet who and how they will be taken. So who's considered to be firefighting and what are the criteria for how firefighting he is? Are they going into the damages undeclared or uninsured infrastructure, animals, other property? What about the second home disasters? The measure concerning workers, by giving them a suspension for the next period, is tossing them out of a large part of the workforce, since it does not count on those who work uninsured, those who solved the contract as soon as the fires started, those who did not start work on food, tourism because of the coronary pandemic. Do you really bear in mind the difficulties that have arisen in the tabling process and the supporting documents? Many are forced to resort to private accountants who cost enough. Not everyone has access to computers, nor do they know the supporting documents and others, and nothing has been announced about the exemption from excise duty on fuel, the abolition of fares on ferrobots and so on. PPC's announcement that gives the right to those affected not to pay the current account is for mocking. The residents, the professionals, the farmers in the region, need to have a guaranteed free electricity for the whole time that the full reconstruction of their homes, their businesses and so on. Many of the families, too, who have been affected, have children studying. It is required that the State receive a monthly student allowance, for example, to ensure free accommodation, food, travel, free internet, consumables, books. In short, nothing less can be tolerated by the rapid, direct and universal -100% - compensation for all pistols. And 100% compensation means that they will be compensated for everything and without any hindrance from the first animal, root, etc., whether it is secured, marked or not. It is the responsibility of the State to cover the cost of logging documents with full debt write-off to the State, to the banks, to the insurance companies of all residents. Especially for the retinas in northern Evia, it is necessary to ensure permanent work with a contract of employment, wages and rights of retinas for the afforestation, preservation of the forest. A total of permanent and adequate income measures are required for farmers, self-employed professionals and workers in each affected region. In all areas affected, extensive anti-corrosion measures of flood protection are needed immediately. We emit a hazard signal in front of autumn and winter, especially for Evia, which is burdened by previous natural disasters and phenomena. Go directly to all the necessary flooding measures so that we do not mourn lives. We are not enough with the general promises from the Step of the House. This cries out all the workers, the people, and Evia and everywhere, who each year burns and drowns, which every time he hears all promises without opposition. They are still waiting for compensation, infrastructure projects from previous disasters. And if you think that with the committees and the commissions you're making and suggesting both the Civic Anti-Civilisation and the various majestics, you'll fool them again, you're wrong. Experiment and knowledge now exist and it must make use of everyone so that the next day they can stand on their feet. Only in the last two years of the New Democracy to take into account will one see the strengthening of the arsenal of repression and authoritarianism towards the people rather than the strengthening of fire-fighting, forestry services and hospitals in the country with permanent staff. But we do not agree with the idea that when a fire takes place, they will be threatened and they will eventually become ashes, property, forests. We do not agree that when it rains we are flooding whole regions, our people will be at risk. We cannot compromise that in 2021 human life will remain unprotected. The huge steps of science can make a decisive contribution to the protection of the environment, to strengthening the integrated management and protection of forests against any danger, especially from forest fires and a whole range of natural wealth. Corresponding science's potential with the needs of workers can only be ensured by the JRC's realistic proposals. These proposals at the same time lead us to a path of economic and social development in our country, different from that which, at the same time, at its heart will be to ensure the well-being of people, to the protection of the lives of workers and the environment itself. This road opens today's claims, the action, the positions of those on the streets of the struggle through collective organisations of the movement with unity, organization, claiming, solidarity, so that no one is alone. On this road together, the JRC is walking, because only the people themselves can finally save the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. As the Step for the speech by Mr. Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, is being prepared, let me repeat that we have a limit by 16: 00' this afternoon, the Prime Minister has a very serious meeting to make at that time. I mean, keeping time is not a penalty, it's an agreement that we made in order to make it easier for ourselves. Mr Velopoulos, you have the floor as President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to address the Prime Minister, but also all the political leaders. The Greek Prime Minister asked on 12 August to discuss the fires. We're talking today of the 25th, thirteen days later. How extraordinary was it? How serious and how important, Prime Minister, was it to wait for thirteen, fourteen days later to talk? In my view you should -12 have told us? - 15, 16, 17, it doesn't matter, to talk. But now that the debate is starting, I think it is constructive. Prime Minister and other political leaders, you have all made a mistake and I will highlight it to you, because it is a debt of honour to Greece and the Greeks standing in the country, to be welcomed and to thank them. So all the parliament and all the political leaders must thank Cyprus, France, Croatia, Sweden, Romania, Spain, the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Ukraine, Israel, Russia, all the countries that helped in the difficult times that the country has passed. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We are neither ungrateful nor ungrateful. We all had to do it, and the Prime Minister who did it from what I know by phone, but it had to be said here, had to be said by everyone. Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u23	He said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u24	I say all the political leaders must name the countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u25	So many times I've named them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u26	I'm not talking about you, Prime Minister. I say all the political leaders. I know what I'm saying, everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u27	The President of the Republic has already done so to all countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u28	Do not talk to me about the President of the Republic, because you are now ticking me with the windmills and I do not want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u29	Let's move on. I said it because it expresses the nation. Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u30	But it must be expressed nationally, Mr President. Let's actually go. Prime Minister, you came here and told us that it was the fault of climate change. It was the heat. You told us you made everything well, Prime Minister. Then why did all of Greece burn down? If you've made it all good, why did our country burn down? I won't tell you about the redundancies in the NSA. I won't say that the fire brigade wasn't reinforced. But I'll tell you they're lying to you. You're lying to your advisors, Prime Minister, and that's what bothers me as a human being. Or you're not telling the truth in the Greek Parliament. You said they were flying seventy-four planes. So I'll let you know that one of the nine Canadters fly four. As you can hear, Prime Minister, ask them. The average flight availability - ask experts - is 50%. It can't be any more. They're never 100%, because they want maintenance, mostly want to land and look at them if they can fly. Of the twenty-five Sinooks flying four. Either they hide the truth to you, Prime Minister, your advisers and your ministers, your staff, or you're not telling the truth. So let us decide exactly what we say to the Greek people and to Parliament, because I have ten cars and another one is moving. It's not the same. Because listening to seventy-four means flying seventy-four. They don't fly seventy-four. Not to mention the Pedgetelles, which Andreas Papandreou bought in the 1980s by Jaruzelski and we're still flying with them. To focus and solve the problem, Prime Minister, we need to find the cause. Today all political leaders have dealt with the result, simply with the result not the cause. This is the difference of the Greek Solution, that we are looking to heal the cause to end the problem, and we are not commenting as commentators, journalists, the result of the bad choice. You said, Prime Minister, flying is not a panacea. You're absolutely right. When it is a hundred thousand acres, it is not panacea that volcanics, but flying, dear Prime Minister, are used for the first 10 minutes along with the ground to erase the fire immediately. If the fire gets caught, so long as we're burned, Prime Minister, and we're sadly burned. Prime Minister, today you have taken a step in the right direction and I say it in public. It took forty years the New Democracy's party to think that the forty-seven Ministries and seventeen institutions could not be responsible for fire-fighting and extinguishing. And finally, he listened for two years to what the Greek Solution says, a single body has been in control, the custody of the whole process. Now you've decided right. Now the New Democracy has decided, Prime Minister, right because it has listened to us. That is why we are useful and necessary in the Greek Parliament for every government, to propose and listen and you must listen. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But here, Prime Minister, the 'good slowly and never' applies. Greece's burnt. The future of the country burned to me, and I'll explain it later. You said, Prime Minister - and some people have heard you here so that you do not personally report - that all of them will be compensated, as they have been compensated in the past. Prime Minister, a few minutes ago the FEK for Samos came out. You know that? Prime Minister, can you hear me? You said so here, they heard you and your advisers ran out of the FEK so that the Prime Minister of the country wouldn't be exposed. Because I've said it another time, clearly, and the head's on it all. Unfortunately, this state has been structured and built on ochrephism. Am I going to do this? The government said so. They're still waiting in Thessaly for compensation. They're still waiting in Samos for compensation. And now the FEC came out, because the Prime Minister said so. It cannot be the Prime Minister here every day to implement what the New Democracy says. But that is not the case, Mr New Democracy, Mr Ministers to your Ministries. You said, Prime Minister, you saved the world. You didn't save the world, Prime Minister. We had a loss of a man, a pilot of our hero who fell. But leave this, I'll tell you something much more important. Clearly, and that lives have been saved is very important. Human life, even one, is of great value to weigh it and say it's more or less. Prime Minister, however, do you know that man needs a human environment? Tell me, how can the Evia resident live on the burnt earth? Life in burnt does not exist for the next ten to fifteen years. And he drew your attention to all that they were not burnt or saved only men, burnt animals, burned wildlife, burned birds, burned deer, burned the animal kingdom, the fauna and flora of all these regions. So, Prime Minister, it is not only to save lives, but also to save human assets and environment, since you are sensitive to climate change. You know much better than me that the fire creates huge releases of tons of carbon dioxide. So instead, if you're fighting for climate change, you're putting us on wind turbines and forklifts, why don't you protect the forests so as not to release carbon dioxide from the fires? To protect them, that's what I'm saying. Also, because you have made us "drink" and so I say in the popular expression with the ultimate state, Prime Minister, the state finally means "permanent," Prime Minister. You listed here, Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, a series of your officials and compare them to the SYRIZA failures, because they were failed anyway, so they lost the election. They lost them. I mean politically failed, Mr. Comrade. You lost the election and the New Democracy won. That's what I'm saying. So please list ten, fifteen executives, a series of executives that are considered to be executives and executives. Most of them are PASOK. So here, Prime Minister, or the New Democracy has no executives and you do not want to have executives or do not want to be members of the New Democracy party. One of the two applies. Or you don't have executives and they're failed neo-democrats and you put PASOK or you don't want neo-democratics on the line and you put PASOK Select. And it's not my personal reproach. It's ideological. I repeat. It is about an entire party, where it is shown by the Prime Minister's choices that it has no executives to satisfy the "final" state that he sees himself. He therefore presides on a party, on a side, which does not satisfy his members. There is an incompatible and incompatible procedure. The Prime Minister must look into this. You said you put Mr Beno, because he is worthy as you said. I'm not saying he's not worthy. To God! Maybe he's the best. We say, isn't the New Democracy party worthy? You mean everybody's worthless after all? That's the problem. So you have ideological - I'll say it straight - blackout. You are in another party, you express other policies, you support other people and you do not honor the people who vote for you. And they're politicians, and they're here, and they're careful. You say, Prime Minister, that you give 18 billion euros for the "green" economy, because with the mistakes of SYRIZA, New Democracy and KINAL Greece was burned. Greece became black and white to make it green today. It's embarrassing, and we can talk about it. You abolished lignites, Prime Minister, when Germany, which you know as well as I will, by 2040, have lignites. We need to look at this carefully. Why Germany? There is a method of cheaping where lignite does not release carbon dioxide. If the Prime Minister wants me to send him the study - they are scientists from Germany - to read it. Why should I abolish the lignites worth 260 billion euros to get the 72 billion euros with NSRs and so on. And the 18 billion that Europe gives me? Tell me how these are weighed, Prime Minister, so I can understand that. And, I repeat, yes to climate change. You say there's a significant change. Of course, anyone who knows the subject has always had changes in the climate for thousands of years. Depression of the Deucalon, Oggy. Mr. Tasoulas knows. There are these. We hear them from the past. If, however, it is to burn all of Greece, evaporate carbon dioxide by tons and say that I want to protect climate change and Greece with green growth, then I will tell you ancient Greek: "Praise horses!" Clear things! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, what do you mean that wind turbines can coexist with the forests? This is where Mrs Sacellaropoulou comes in with your election as President of the Republic. What do you mean exactly? The windmills can coexist with the forests, yes or no? How are wind turbines gonna get up there? You need to have roads. So they can't go to the woods. The constitutional court or law, the Constitution tells us other things. So Mrs Sacellaropoulou came in a strange period, when the laws on green growth came out and gave an opinion by S.H.E. - she was a rapporteur and a member of the committee in S.H.E.L.D. - that we can put wind turbines on the burned and in the woods. You know, I'm not a conspiracy officer. In my life, gentlemen of the New Democracy, I have learned one thing: that repetitive bad coincidences are not just coincidences, they are symptoms of the sepsis of our democracy! And whoever understands, understands. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, you said you were going to make a fund with the sponsors. As we have particular reservations from the past of the New Democracy, I remember the 'Mollyviat' fund that we are still looking for. At least do not get into her like the previous ones and we are looking for Molyviat's funds again. Millions of euros have been lost and have not been attributed to those affected. Where they're gone, you look sometime and a prosecutor where they are. Some say that the money went into the budget, some say they lost thirty, forty, fifty. There were court proceedings, everyone was acquitted with disguise, the story is over. In Greece, of course, no one is punished. In Greece, as the late Fotopoulou said, he is punished for stealing too much money and called "investor". You steal a few, you go to jail. You remember the movie, I imagine. Let's actually go. Prevention. I call on the Prime Minister and his sensitivity to the issue of floods. Prime Minister, yesterday, arm the burnt areas. It will be flooded by Barumbas, Adames, Abednes, the two currents that end up in Eleusina and Perama. It'll flood people, sink people, we'll mourn people. If it rains, we'll have a problem. Since yesterday! Don't stay in the claws, the Ministry, the district. Give me an order. Make ten good people think Greek, practically, without - without - looking at the misery and the 'bubbles', and give responsibility, with the intergroup here in Parliament, each one of them, to control these people to make the works. People will die, flood people, drown people like drowned in Mandra. People weren't drowned at random. The forest had been burned above, no flooding, all the water fell into a torrent and people drowned. I appeal to the Prime Minister of the country, to the political staff of the country, not to mourn others dead by floods. We can't with the first fire burning and with the first flood drowning. It's not a state! Let's all go drown then! You can't do that! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So I appeal to everyone's seriousness and humanity to think seriously. And the President of Parliament should convene a committee to monitor these. We'll have a problem! Prime Minister, I would like to highlight some of the mistakes you made and that's enough. Good, then, the initiative to talk today. Mr. Spaniard said a few things that were commanded not to be extinguished. I know one thing, Prime Minister. You'll tell me he's undone his statement. We know how the statements are undone. But there is the video - I will produce it in the Minutes of the House in my denture - which Mr Spanos says is self-evident, as I have told you. Ordered not to sever. And Mayor Mandudi confirmed the District Admiral at a press conference. That's what it's said. I'm going to try to interpret what "pilot" Spanos, your district chief, wanted to say. The precursor, the anguish of every Prime Minister and every politician is that human lives should not be lost. I believe that. That's what happened there. The fire brigade was ordered to force people to leave their villages and homes, not to enter the frontline of the fire - unfortunately, this is evidenced by complaints I have from northern Evia mainly - because you wanted to save lives. So what did you do? You sacrificed the area, north of fire, to save lives. I don't know if they get into the scale. Believe me, I don't know if these things get into the balance. You made it an option. You were exposed by the district chief, who is now picking it up, but there is his video. And here I have to say: Or foolish is the district manager who said these things, which you have chosen, Prime Minister, or is lying, that you have chosen him again. Whether one is true or the other, you've wrongly chosen him! Just stuff! There is no need for any further interpretation of the terms. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Either he's lying or he's a fool. Pick what it is. Fires: Prime Minister, the rest of them have said so. I don't want to get them all over again, but you don't want to go without guns. It's war, you told me. I saw ministers, they called "war here", "war there". Good, war. You don't go naked in the war. You're going with your guns. You're not firing five thousand forest fire extinguishers. You're taking firearms. You don't have thirty-year-old aircraft, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, may I ask you a question? Would you fly thirty-five, forty-four, or drive a thirty-five-year-old car, 20, hundred-thousand-forty-kilometres? Oh, no. You're a reasonable man, no way. So am I. How do you give pilot Canander 30 years old? And we know that half of them are in the workshops. How? What state, what governments were they - PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy - that they did not take? Because I know that Mr. Chardalias recommended a purchase of fire extinguishers a few months ago and the government accepted it. If the previous ones did, however, we'd have airplanes. We'd have it. And the pilot's running now, half of them aren't working, half of them have no propellers, they're dogged from here, they're biting from there to make aircraft. And when I talk to the Prime Minister today about this, it is not the fault of this Prime Minister. He's also Mr. Tsipras, he's also the last one, he's been over the last thirty years. They're thirty years old and they're digging into someone's hands. That's the truth! And they dug into the hands of this government. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, my Prime Minister, you do not spend about 200,000, 000 or 100,000 on the channels. An aircraft like that makes 30,000,000. How much it's worth, Mr. Mylonakis. That's about thirty million, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u31	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u32	Calculate how many new aircraft we could have with 200,000. On the other hand, Prime Minister, you have made other mistakes. The second mistake: European funds have not been used. I spoke with a Romanian fellow Member who told us that Romania has fire extinguishers purchased with European programmes. We have fire-fighting vehicles without tyres, with mantle that have rotted, normally ruins! Greece had not even submitted a proposal. Khan! This is the wrong political and organisational. Third mistake: fire extinguisher, aiding technology. The Israelis came here - I saw them and was shocked - with their drones, Prime Minister, etc. Nice things! I see our people, they went with the bottles and they were throwing water into the fire. And we've become a humiliation internationally in Australia. A channel was showing us and spreading through us. How can the firefighter function when he doesn't have his own tools, his own uniform, proper training, all these things he hasn't had in decades ago. It's not your responsibility, I repeat. Now we are unfortunately carrying out a review of the thirty-year-old criminal errors, so as not to blame you alone. Fourthly, our aircraft - I don't know if you know it - are not flying because they don't have a special navigation system. The pilot, the hero, replaces them. Where he sees the smoke, he can't go and if he goes, he goes at the risk of his life. There are special machines cheap, Prime Minister, that could get into these planes. I'm telling you things. And here we thank all the firefighters, all the pilots, all the policemen, all the residents who have fought to keep Greece standing in the last few days. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Fifth mistake. They don't throw away the fire helicopters, Prime Minister, at night. No, Mr. Chardalia, you know very well that there are special helicopters that may be hiring from Ukraine and at night. There are helicopters, guys. Prevention. Look. What's the problem with us? They're better off than healing it. Now we've reached the healing, that's the problem, and we're working on how to catch up with history. There are helicopters and Ukrainians flying at night. They're flying! And if Mr. Chardalias doesn't believe, I'll give him the type of aircraft. It's this one, Mr. Chardalia. I'll send it to your office too, if you want. I know you've done it, you've proposed it, but I have to tell someone. It can't be, Prime Minister. We need to talk somewhere. Did you not say so, did you not hear them, did you copy it, and did you give a solution that is the Greek Solution, why are we constantly making proposals for you? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Six. The volunteer firemen weren't mobilised. It's the report of the president of the volunteer firemen. The fire department didn't mobilise two and a half thousand firefighters. Seven. There's no renewal. The contract had expired on 14 August. I don't know if that's true. We filed it yesterday and they told me. I ask, is that true? It's not true. All right, all right, all And to say the following about Mr Spanos and not to say about the Municipality of Mandudi. We've been through it. I'm waiting for the Prime Minister to answer me. Ninth. Irresponsibility. We've become a humiliation globally and Australia. I, Prime Minister, saw this image, the video, on the Australian channel with footage of a fireman trying to erase the fire with a bottle of water and his comment "I'm not sure if Greek firefighters are fully equipped". And the accident, Prime Minister, is that they had you next door too. Is it possible to allow Greece to pass through like this? How is it possible to speak of a state at last, you tell me? Tenth. Uncoordinated entities. President Forestry: "Imbecile and incapable of stopping, unrelated to co-ordination". Mr. Kalkiryris, what's his name? - who was here somewhere, he said, "I'm here, I don't know, if my ministers are okay." Are we all right? And who is Mr. Kalkiryris, Prime Minister? The one who you, as a New Democracy party in Matti, denounced with SYRIZA as moral activists the loss of a hundred human lives. You kept him and upgraded it! Tell me how sensible that is. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And you know from Mr. Tsipras, I have a problem. He avoided saying the name. I don't know. Something has been agreed between the two parties, are the leaders talking behind the scenes? Is there a coup d'état that I've been saying for a long time? Because I see them very loose, very relaxed! So to say, Mr. Tsipras for the people you've kept, the bad guys from them, but not to say their names. Mr. Kalkiryris is specific, Mr. Tsouvalas is specific. I'm not saying they're bad people, Minister. They may be the best people in the world, but you have complained to them by election about moral negligence, crimes, homicide, and you have kept them. So SYRIZA was right then. It's all done well! And why didn't you do an examination for Matty? He proposed that the Greek Solution finally give justice to those who have gone unjustly, become an examination for Matti and the Prime Minister and the New Democracy refused it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So justifies the immunity to the Kalokyris - in Kolokyris, what's it called? - or I can't justify it. A failed me in my companies, ladies and gentlemen, I would never have taken him. After you called him a loser, how did you get him, gentlemen of the New Democracy? You took him and made him a chief of the fire department. He was a loser. Some of them in here have business. Would you like one who was called a failure in your business, in your office? But are we in good shape? And yet you keep him. Something's wrong. Eleventh. Mr. Mitsotakis made this mistake. He was talking about firefighters and doctors. They were applauded. Everyone applauded them. You know, applause doesn't feed people. Do you know how much firefighters get off the ground or, if you like, when they're detonating the fire and go out of the building? They get 9 euros a day! Thank you to the Greek state, Prime Minister, to the person who promotes his breasts in front of the fire is 9 euros a day. Shame on all of us! Shame on you! I can't say anything else. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Is that only applause from the state? No, the state's thanks are to give him the incentive to say 'I say thank you, but I also give you the logistics infrastructure'. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It's nine euros, Admiral. I'll torpedo you! The president of the fire extinguishers reported it to me. Let it go, you lost it, you got torpedoed! Let's go to the thirteenth mistake. Do not deceive the Prime Minister's staff. I'll say it straight away. With silence, Prime Minister, this cannot be buried. We need to scaffold very deeply to find the mistakes and not repeat them. And I'll tell you this. This is the fourteenth issue, for us a very important mistake, Prime Minister. You give the reafforestation to private individuals. I have a lot to say here. Huge is the bizna, Prime Minister, I know. I'm dealing with the plants. Do you know how long the reforestation will take place? It's over $1 billion. To make the reforestation in burnt all, that's how it is. It costs between 8 and 10 euros a plant, such as pine or other plants. But this is where he wants attention. Don't start planting pineapples everywhere. The Romans considered it a cursed tree because it was on fire. The Romans knew it in 2000 before us. And we don't know it, and we put pine! He needs a special study of forests, special training for people to see what trees will get in. Because natural reafforestation is better than artificial, because many times as artificial reforestation does not thrive. I tell you, Prime Minister, that you will not be charged again with money that we will pay in loan, with interest, and that will be paid by the Greek people to dedicate them to some who make certain hybrids of trees, such as BAYER. Hold it. Everybody make money, but there's a serious reforestation. Fifteenth, fires. Prime Minister, the House must now legislate: no investor, no wind turbines! Now you do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u33	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u34	It's not like that, Mr. Lawyer. The S.H.E.'s decision. He says we can put in forest wind turbines. If that's what you call investment, you go burn your house and put trees in. That's not an investment. And if you want, come to my office and I'll prove to you what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u35	No personal conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u36	I said, "Mr. Lawyer." We've been friends since.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u37	They've known each other since.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u38	And with you, Mr. Barca, is it bad? I know the whole world. Do you know what it is, Mr. Barca? Have acquaintance transactions. Such a Greek solution, Prime Minister, will never do because we will go to the end. A four-year period we want to be able to govern Greece. Nothing more! We'll rule it Greek and patriots. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mrs. Mendoni, how are the opportunities given to some? I'm not saying it's done. But I'm telling you what I saw. The plan is here. And coincidence is, it's okay. It's all coincidence. Here it is. I'll submit it to the minutes of the House. Plan - says - study about Tatoi. It included museum, hotel, Spa, special routes. Listen. But he had two in.gr press releases from "the NEWs". Both reports by Mr Marinakis said the problem is forest land. That means motive. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen, gentlemen, we'll be serious. That means motive. I'm not saying it's done, but it's motive. To stop a problem, my dear friend, you're cutting off the motive. If someone doesn't have motive, he won't do the damage to you either willingly or inadvertently. That's what I'm telling you. Because prevention for me is important, not repression. Sixteenth. And here I live with the Prime Minister, and I read to him what he said on 31 July 2018. "I cannot understand what political responsibility means without any resignation. Responsibility must be accompanied by actions, otherwise it serves communications purposes, such as the Prime Minister's show on the night of the black Monday," he referred to Matti and Mr Tsipras. Prime Minister, don't these apply to your government? One must not give up? You said that. One shouldn't have given up, said it was his fault? It can't be anyone's fault. In the end, it's the Hatzipetris! It's not anyone's fault in this country. You said so, you are right, I fully agree with your statement and when you did it then, I approved you for your statement and said that the statement by the President of the New Democracy is correct and correct. Yeah, but we're saying something else. We can't, we need to get the knife into the bone and be next to us, our friend, let him be our competitor in the party. We take his head when he doesn't do his job well, because he's a minister of a democracy, a state that apologizes to the citizens. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Outcome of the fires? You've got protagonists. The reality in this country is that Greece has protagonists. Listen to the first one. Third in the Mediterranean in burnt areas Greece. Nine hundred and thirty-three thousand acres incinerated until 18 August 2021. Damage? Over 20 billion. Do you realize what damage has been done? Over 20 billion is the damage. Why don't you see it now, it takes 15 years to restore the normality of the economy in either Evia or the Tower. Feedingstuffs, poultry units, apiculture, resin production, pine. It is a chain that has real added value over 20 billion. This damage, which has been done by mistake, is not reluctant. And how do we make it up to you? Let me tell you. You will receive loan, you will give both loan and loan and again benefits, because you do not have a plan, a wealth production plan. Two years I've told you, you don't have a schedule, take ours at last, produce a primary sector to have wealth. Take our program, we give it to you, it's free! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Secondly, I will not say that you have abolished forest maps. That's where mistakes were made, anyway. Forestry officers fired. Thirdly, Evia five hundred and fifty thousand acres burned, tourism is over. We have all said this and I do not want to repeat what the previous speakers have said. Now we're going to New Democracy's favorite topic, wind turbines. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because I have five experts dealing with energy, two from Germany and three Greeks, who will come to my office and give him all the studies, that energy production by wind turbines is a great fairy tale. Huge, I can't analyze it now. It's a very good bizna for some, we'll agree. It's a lot of money for Germany to agree on, because Germany produces wind turbines. If my country produced it, I would say that they produce the Scaramaga shipyards, we should discuss it. But I'm going through this. I don't care about the energy now. Because if I were interested in energy, I would insist on what I said since 2007, dear fellow Member: Natural gas has Ellas, mining, extracting it, it is ecological and it is not polluting. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] From 2007-2008, I said it in here, but Mr. Dendias went to Saudi Arabia, Prime Minister, and said Greece would not extract natural gas. Did the Prime Minister of the country ask? Mr. Dendias said in his interview in Saudi Arabia that we don't want to extract gas, there's no reason. Mr. Dendias asked you? Is Mr. Dendias or is Mr. Dendias just doing his own trick at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without asking any Member and rather the Prime Minister himself? Because it is a major issue to extract natural gas or non-exploration. It's a big deal. If you've asked and agreed, you can tell us. If you were not asked and did it alone, there is a matter of moral order and political order. Mr. Dendias cannot go beyond his post as Prime Minister. What are these things? He cannot exceed the president of the party, the Prime Minister, do not do that and prejudge his view! The Prime Minister should know. Let's see it, it's from Saudi Arabia, I can give him the video, if he wants to. So I won't say that, but I'll tell you what the wind turbines have inside. I'll tell you something more serious. The wind turbines have 50 meters of propellers. That's how it is. Find me a way to recycle these propellers and come and convince me they're not toxic. Firstly, the wind turbines are not recycled. Secondly, they are made from rare earths that are toxic. In the area opposite Barnabas, it has about forty wind turbines. Twenty don't work. Do you know why? Twenty years of operation. They don't take them down because they don't know where they're gonna get the wind turbines. They don't know themselves, because they're not recyclable. What are you going to do? Leave the rest, I'm telling you. Let go of the natural gas. But what are you going to do? I, ladies and gentlemen, know that I am travelling. Do you know that in Germany there are huge roads with wind turbines, small and large, which do not work and which cannot be recycled, because in Germany it is becoming a mess, and we are to be Germany's garbage store with wind turbines? And I say it with soul pain. Let me say it differently. Why should I close lignite when all of Greece, when they operate, is as much a town in China as pollution. When they work, Greece contributes to carbon dioxide as a town in China. I'm gonna save this planet with wind turbines? I will save the planet by hosting all illegal immigrants and refugees. I'm gonna save this planet by being the German garbage store. Uh, no, gentlemen, Greece will not save any foreigners, Greece will save only Greeks and no one else! It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] And because time is pressing too much, I want to say that in Distomo, while Evia was burning, some wind turbines were planting it. Distomo! By the time Evia burned, I'm telling you they went and put on wind turbines. Forty-five thousand wind turbines rot in the United States. You know that? You know what happened to Texas last year? Texas is a oil-producing region. He had oil, but Clinton got out first, and then Obama-- another kid, and that -- and they called climate change, etc. All right, what have they done, ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you. They closed oil wells, they put wind turbines and photovoltaics, and suddenly it goes minus 10 snow, the wind turbines don't work, the photovoltaics don't make power, and seven days left without power. And I know, it's a fact and ask friends of Greek Americans. Christ and God bless you! It's self-evident. Also toxic liquids for cooling motors. To cool the windscreen motor, it needs toxic fluid. Where are you going to take it? It's metal that's out of use after a short time. His wear isn't the best way to go for recycling. For a 3MW wind generator, we use a thousand two hundred tons of cement. Listen to me. Listen to what kind of crime you're committing. A wind generator needs a thousand tons of cement, thirty - five tons of steel, many metals, zinc, etc. What else do you want? What ecology are you telling me about, what green development? For processing a ton of rare earths, four hundred and twenty thousand cubic feet of toxic gases are created. That's what wind turbines are like. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] I said all this and I don't want to get tired of you any more, why? Because the Prime Minister comes and cancels the lignites. I ask myself: Germany is investing in lignite, a new power station was launched in Germany the other day. Why? They use specific biological filters and lignite drying technology for impairment of up to 85% of carbon dioxide emissions. So, the Germans can, we're so stupid and we can't do this thing? Why? There are 270 billion lignite reserves in our country. I'm not saying it, IGME has said it. And what are you guys doing? You're throwing them in the trash so you can do what? Tell us what you're gaining. You fly 270 billion. He's not the Prime Minister here, he's gone, he's going to know about Saudi Arabia, I guess. It's 270 billion. Tell me what I'm winning? I don't win. First the lignite in electricity production in Germany in July, almost a year later. This is where we close them. Result? I'll tell you now. Because you are subsidizing wind turbines and photovoltaics, the average price of megabare in Greece is 164 euros, the highest in Europe. We are the most expensive in electricity and I ask the liberals of the New Democracy: How am I going to have an industry, when I pay more expensively than all of Europe? How am I gonna compete and get a product out? How am I going to tell the citizen who gets 500 euros 'payed more expensive power, because I want to make green growth and green horses'? You tell me. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] Greece is currently importing 63% of its energy consumption. What can I say more? I say that, although I could say a lot. But, because time is pushing, I'll close here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u39	He's pushing, really.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u40	Yes, I know, Mr. Tasouula, he's always pushing with me. There's a matter of pressure on time. 'The country has a firefighting mechanism' - and I close here - 'which have few countries'. June 2021, New Democracy Minister's statement. "It has become an extremely pilot job for the country's anti-nuclear protection, a real division this year, not only in terms of media, equipment and personnel, of course." He said that, Minister of the New Democracy. Minister of SYRIZA: "An amazing pilot project has been carried out in terms of understanding and understanding of the problems of forest firefighting". Matty. You're so same, so predictable, you're both saying exactly the same things because you mean the same thing, that we failed, but we're not sorry. That's the problem. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] New Democracy and SYRIZA are responsible for the country's outrage, unfortunately. Stop being compared for who's less evil. Compare who's doing good at home and home. And if you can't do good at the place, at home, on the party and across Greece, get up, get an election to finish the story. You have found them with SYRIZA, it seems, it is not opposition to you, but we will be here to judge you, to criticise you, to strongly criticise proposals, to plan and programme, because we are the voice of reason, the patriotic voice, the Greek voice, the solution to problems: the Greek Solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u41	The prototypes will be completed with the speech by Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point, when it was in progress - which was for days and nights - the fire in Vilia, we sat down and looked down, as I can imagine, the sky darkening, the sun turning into that deep red, almost purple, and I heard someone saying 'like stupid astronauts poisoning our butcher'. This feeling of most people out there, that we are helpless in a disaster, this general feeling, which - you know - has it, and the nurses of the national health system have it in the midst of a pandemic, that we all sit, from all sides, and applaud them, doesn't make any difference. They're still helpless. That's how they feel. They feel long, especially the youth out there who knows what to deal with, this reproach of climate change. Mr President, I am very afraid that this series of monologues we have in today's debate makes the House unworthy of the circumstances. It does not particularly help people out there who feel helpless and neglected. It's the structure. I am not criticising you, Mr President, and not all of us here in this House in general, but it is the structure of the organization of this debate which, by wanting and not trying to present the positions of our party in a way that helpless people out there sounds like we want to benefit partyly from what is being done and that is not good for Parliament, it is not good for democracy. Today, fortunately, the coconut battle between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Vice-Population was milder, milder than at other times. It sounded more like an inner-party disagreement between them. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You held back and that's good. That thing that we lived after Matty, the opposition screaming, what we've lived in the past few days, something like that didn't happen, this Matty versus Evia, acres against the dead. That's very good. I disagree with Mr. Tsipras in what he said. I disagree that it is the Prime Minister's personal responsibility. At some point he returned to Mr Mitsotakis and said to him "it is your personal responsibility". Me and Mera25 in total think that the central state eventually collapsed in Matti. Now these days, the state has collapsed. A state is as strong or as ready as the development model on which it is based. Both for the Eye three years ago and for the Geranea, Evia, Elias, Arcadia, Vilia, is responsible for this underdevelopment model, a predator post-practical capitalist model since the 1950s, which went bankrupt in 2010 and which goes bankrupt with the people and now and nature now. It's a model that Mr. Mitsotakis will never apologize for. It is not his fault personally, but let us not forget that his prolongation has been in the DNA of this particular model since the 1950s. What Mr Mitsotakis is responsible for, as Prime Minister of this country, is for his new predatorial model that his government supports standards, you will allow me to call it a third-world versatile appearance of Miami. I shall refer specifically to this. It is a model that, if it roots, will disappear once and for all what is bound to us for ever with this space, with this corner of the Mediterranean, with this country. Ladies and gentlemen, from 1950 to 1980 the model was based - I will say very firstborn, but I think it helps to debate - to abandon the fragmented land with internal migration and building, on the basis of counter-comparison. That was the '50-80 model. From 1980 to 2008 we have a transformation, a mutation of this original model, which is very much based on the debt, which is starting to be built - private or public, it doesn't matter - in the cacula and in a new kind of building - to remind you - of the type of Bobo. I like to say names for us to get to know each other. Since 2010, the major bankruptcy and then, we have a combination of bankruptcy and contraction. That was when the troika came and in all the others it did cut the forest fire budget from 500 million to 380 million. From the fourth Memorandum, as we call it, what Mr. Tsipras signed in August 2018 -- he called it a Memorandum, we call it a Fourth Memorandum, because he was a heavy memorandum by 2060 -- starting another mutation of this sub-development model. With a tool of bankruptcy, especially for individuals, we have the process of overconcentration of the land into very few hands through the "red" loans, by the "HRAKLI", by the new bankrupt who came now, but these start from August 2018 - there is a continuation - and parallel to another mutation of the type of construction, the construction, which is a raid of the type of casino, Greek and complexes. What happened to the Desert, who goes for private reconstruction. Today I heard the Prime Minister talk about damages to firemen. It is something we will certainly not disagree, but let me, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, tell you that it reminded me of a'money there'. 'We'll take care of them.' But who are we gonna take care of? Those whose main feeling, especially in Evia, but not just, are that they feel helpless. And not only do these people feel helpless, they feel something else. Go talk to them. They feel unwanted. They do not stick to the model of “Metsotakis S.A.”. Do you remember in 2010 where some articles were coming out, which were of scientific interest, which characterised a million small and medium-sized people as unwanted? Not personally like people, like men and women, but do you remember the argument that a million people have to change their jobs, why wasn't the model productive? Just this way our people in northern Evia right now, but elsewhere, feel unwanted in this new model. They feel the transition from the oldest underdevelopment model to the newest underdevelopment model from some of the decisions you have made now, in the middle of the tragedy that I have no objections that through your thinking was in the right direction. For example, some direct actions in the woods that burnt up against corrosion. But who did you go to, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? You went to "Cakora", you went to "TERNA". You didn't reinforce the forest halls to do this job. You spoke, Mr Mitsotakis, before, in your prototype, saying that there should be opportunities for people to work in the forests. We agree. You, however, mean to make them rented employees of "TERNA" and "AKORA". And our people understand that. I have used Hawaii, ladies and gentlemen, to describe you, to give you the anxiety we have in Mera25 for the future of this place, in the context of the Troika development model that you are also publishing. I'll say it one more time. Anyone who goes to the big island of Hawaii will see a beautiful place, in all the beaches of five-star hotels, belonging to foreigners, the locals live in the center of the island in rods and small buses every morning, going to the hotels that work, either as cleaners or waiters or play havanian guitars, to entertain foreign tourists and at night with the same vans go to the rods in the interior of the country. This is the model of growth that you are building in the bankrupt Greece, what we call "courtland". That's my agony. I wish, it turns out, the Mera25 didn't know what it was saying. But I'm afraid we're going to this model every day. And now, by reading your own texts, your own speeches, in your friends who are approaching you newspapers, you add to the Hawaii model and something else: Australian plantations. If you go to the ancient forests, which have been shattered by the various logging companies, which have made them wood, and look at what they have replaced them, you will see leafs of genetic mutants, which are planted like plantations - because they are plantations - and it is a skull place. Neither flora nor fauna lives there. When I hear you, Mr. Mitsotakis, on behalf of Mitsotakis S.A., talk about private planters, I hear you talk about trees that grow very quickly. What does that mean? It means that they are genetically mutated, that nothing will live in these trees, even becoming huge too fast. Suddenly, we think of this model with their three pillars, the design of "Metsotakis S.A.", the casinos, privatized beaches, which may be public types, but is under the auspices of a sponsor "Latis and Sias". Because we said, we're talking with names. This is the one pillar. The second pillar is instead for forest services that are reinforced and local communities that participate in the partnerships of real, new forms of cooperatives, to have "TERNA" and "AKATOR". And the 'MONSANTO - BAYER' and the drones with which standard genetically modified plants will be planted very quickly will give reafforestation. You drive Greece, for us in Mera25, in a country of contractors who will be awarded the permanently bankrupt state, in an environment that reminiscent of more tertiary world Miami and less Greece, with the citizens bankrupt waiters. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a people who are bankrupt, where everyone owes everyone, and nobody can pay back, where six hundred thousand are afraid and waiting soon, when the pandemic ends - let it end an hour ago - auctioning and evictions. Such a people are very easy prey on the sirens of those who use climate change to strengthen it. Let me just say it. When someone or someone out there doesn't know how to make it by week, he doesn't care, he doesn't care, what happens in 2050, when it comes to climate change. They don't care what I heard and I transferred it to you at the beginning of my speech, that they remind me of humanity as idiots, astronauts poisoning their scavenger. They don't care when their problem is how they get through by next week. Climate change and debt, ladies and gentlemen, are cooperatives. Poverty and fear of auctioning and eviction divides citizens among privileged ones who can be able, such as us, to care for the environment and the non-preferential ones, who do not have that possibility, because they are struggling to make it this week. In this context the fires came, which is a great opportunity to extend the debt-harvesting to the forests. This is our tragedy. Yeah, the crisis is an opportunity. Unfortunately, however, as long as we are bankrupt, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis gives rise to opportunities, but these opportunities are opportunities to strengthen the crisis. Mr Mitsotakis, I am very pleased that after decades of refusal your prolongation accepts that we have climate change. It's too late than never. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You hug the green transition. But in what way? As I heard you speak, you reminded me of something that Big Von Noyman said about Oppenheimer. When Oppenheimer had said the mea culpa and had apologized to humanity for the discovery of the atomic bomb in which he was involved, Von Noyman, who was his colleague, who never apologized for the atomic bomb, said of Oppenheimer that he pleaded guilty because he wants to engender the glory of the invention. So, somehow you also say that you accept climate change to familiarise PASOK and SYRIZA policies before you that strengthen it. And I'll be very specific. Mines: Can you still talk about mining this day? Mr. Dendias, quite rightly the man said that mining won't work. You said so. I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, at this time to do a little bit of overdoing and get up in your dentistry and do so, as Merkel did after Fukushima. You remember, he stood up after Fukushima and said: "This disaster means we need to change navigation." And it changes all its policy, both its party and its government, and says: 'Finally nuclear'. So stand up in your dentistry and you say: “The end of mining. Yes, we brought what SYRIZA had brought before, signed them, etc., but we won't, because fossil fuels must stay in the pits of the Earth." Say it. Say that this catastrophe in Evia, Krioneri, Vilia, Elia, in Arcadia raised me and I will say "The end of the mining", as Mr. Dendias said. Say it. But even for renewable energy, which is the future, we also hear there that you are enchanting them. Can we still talk about large, hundred and fifty meters of wind turbines on the land? You know, Mr Mitsotakis - I am sure you are aware of this - that the future is the sea wind turbines, especially for countries that have sea and have seven, eight bofors permanently at one point in the Aegean Sea. You know very well that in Denmark 75% of electricity is produced by marine wind turbines. In Britain, 52% have passed right now when we're talking about it - you know - and they're going for 80%, with sea wind turbines. I shall be specific because, Mr President, I will not be more than twenty minutes. We from Mera25, in the context of this debate, put forward three proposals or - if you like - a three-point proposal. The first: natural reafforestation, self-sufficientness of forests. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] We want works against corrosion, of course, with corrosion strings from the burnt forests, they will work local, neighboring, movement organizations, not "AKOR" and "TERNA", not pharaonic projects. We ask for at least two years of breath in the forests. No reafforestation for at least two years, because we know very well what happened in Thassos. Of the fifty thousand acres, forty - five thousand were refreshed by themselves. All it took was to leave them alone. No hybrid tree mutated, Mr. Mitsotakis, nor in a zone around the inhabited areas. Return to forest fire extinguishers, a 1998 error and the activation of local communities, for example the rhetoric farmers in northern Evia. That's the first point. The second is how we ensure that there are no wind turbines in the burnt. It's very simple. No windmills on the land. Orient for sea wind turbines, away from archaeological sites, mountain peaks, so that trees are not cut, no roads are created on our very sensitive nature, the terrestrial nature. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Thirdly, we have tabled three times, if I am not mistaken, so far - perhaps four, I am not entirely sure - an amendment which binds the Greek state that there will be no change in the use of land for thirty years after a fire. I have heard you say: ‘What are you talking about? They are declared to be resurrected automatically." Good. Then why do you disagree with our amendment, even if that is the case? Our amendment at the most - not to add anything. However, we are telling you that this amendment will be a very good stimulus for those who think in the way those too often against the Constitution, regardless of the laws of the state, look at the burnt areas. Ladies and gentlemen, when we protested about climate change twenty years ago, you fooled us, as when we protested about the Americans and NATO invasions in Iraq and Afghanistan. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And we were protesting - because we were protesting, we were glad to say - because these invasions - we were saying - will strengthen the Islamic, Islamist, they will fail and the result will be greater catastrophe for the local populations, for migration, for the prestige of the West and for the concept of democracy. And now behind your crocodile tears about climate change is “EXXON MOBIL” hidden. Unless you disprove me and do what Merkel did after Fukushima. I'm waiting. Here we go. Behind crocodile tears, especially for women in Afghanistan, what are you doing? Go to Evros and raise the fence another one, let's get in some of those women who run away from the Taliban. Behind your crocodile tears for the forests, the "BAYER - MONSANTO" is hidden. Tell us, disprove me and I will gladly apologise that there will be no single hybrid tree produced by a laboratory. Mr. Mitsotakis, you've done hypocrisy art and rajadism science. I'm expecting your dentistry. I expect you to say that the skull place that we are facing in various corners of Greece has recently mobilized you to say no to mining. We're waiting. We'll be here for our dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u43	The cycle of prototypes has been completed and despite the time - and I thank Mr Varoufakis for that - we do not expect, even if there is no overrun of time, to finish, as we have agreed, because of the serious duty of the Prime Minister before four. So the Prime Minister is entitled, in my opinion, to speak both his dentology and his teratology in the next hour, because he is forced after four to be absent. Mr. Prime Minister, please call in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u44	In an attempt, Mr Varoufakis, to make the debate more interactive, I will start by answering you to the three issues that you have raised at the end of your speech, because despite our great disagreements on many other issues and by contradicting your usual rhetoric excesses of slavery, I believe that some of the things you have said are essentially. Reafforestation. All of our geologists recommend that if pine is burned we leave the forest alone and prefer natural regeneration, and that is what we intend to do in this case. All we need to do is launch quickly, which we have already done, the necessary anti-corrosion works to keep the soil with corrosion and corrosion, get the people who lived from the forest to work in the woods, quickly do flooding works at the top of the mountain where we can relatively cheap and without heavy studies to carry out them and then let nature do its work. You are right when you say that, wherever you look in Greece, especially in areas where the Aleppo pine is dominated, you will see either an old forest or a reborn forest provided, however, that the reborn forest, small pine trees, which in themselves will come out, will not burn again and there will be no superstition. Under these two conditions, yes, natural regeneration is the right path, and that is what we will follow, because that is what is indicated by all the experts. There are cases where we need to intervene with artificial reafforestation. These are the cases of forests that are not available for natural regeneration. And, indeed, since the first analysis we have done there are some such forests, especially in the Evia region. And also, yes, we need to intervene with natural reafforestation in cases close to the settlements or other areas, such as possibly around the palace of Tatoi, where there was an old garden with very specific characteristics, which we are now looking for from our historical archives in order to be able to plant what was planted in the 19th century, because this is a forest that was totally artificial. So this policy will now be followed in terms of reafforestation. Therefore, we do not expect that there will be a reforestation of five hundred or seven hundred or eight hundred thousand acres. I am referring to those areas which have burned forests, because of the one million thousand acres that we consider to be burnt are obviously not all forests. This policy will now be followed. Your second observation on wind turbines. First of all, let us finally agree in this Chamber that it is impossible - impossible! - to achieve the targets for a low-carbon and finally zero-carbon economy without the most important participation of the air and the sun in our energy mix. Today we have 2500MW wind turbines and we will have to reach about 7000MW on the basis of the plan that we have drawn up and these wind turbines must go somewhere. The question that arises is where they will come in and with what rules they will enter. And I would like to remind you that in the past, renewable energy investment projects had collapsed in the Council of State, precisely because the Council considered that the proper planning for spatial planning had not taken precedence over where to place wind turbines. Wind generators can't be placed everywhere. There are areas of particular natural beauty, areas where a large wind turbines will disturb the balance of the landscape. These areas can't get wind turbines in. There are other areas on land that can enter wind turbines and the update of the spatial plan around the RES will allow us to make this clear. But it is impossible to discuss today that we can achieve our goals with wind turbines only at sea. Of course, we're also going to launch wind turbines at sea. It's more expensive. However, they also have significant advantages, especially the fact that they can be placed without disrupting other activities with such intensity, and the Ministry of Energy is already moving on to the necessary planning, so that we can identify those first points with high fixed wind potential, where we can put sailors, because, unfortunately, we have great depths. Denmark, to which you have referred, has the advantage that the North Sea is very shallow, which means that you can easily place the windscreen on the bottom, which we here as Greece cannot do. So, yes, in the future, we will also need offshore wind turbines - wind turbines at sea - but we will obviously also need a lot more wind turbines on land, along with a great emphasis that we will obviously give to solar energy, but also to energy storage systems, because these systems are absolutely necessary, as I say the self-evident one - it does not blow and it does not have sun every 24 hours. With regard to the issue of changes of use, let me, Mr Varoufakis, reverse your argument. If, in fact, the legislator was so explicit, then whoever wanted a wind generator not to be placed somewhere would burn the forest. Have you thought of that? Because that is the danger at the moment, the forests are not burning because some want to be fitted wind turbines, forests burning from those who do not want to be fitted with wind turbines! And it is precisely this balance - I stress it, precisely this balance - that the Council of State has tried to achieve. Because I see indignation from colleagues, they probably don't know the details. Let us know before you hurry to be indignant. It is precisely this balance that the Council of State has tried to achieve in its opinion on the possibility of implementing such projects in areas which have been found to be refreshable. This is therefore the balance that we need to achieve. I now come to the other parts of my dentistry, starting with these nice things, which I have heard from Mr Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras, I'll tell you one more time. It is a very bad habit to share your speech before I have spoken my own and after you have shared it, to make the same speech as if you had not heard what I have said at all. What's the point then? What's the point? Is there any reason? After you have the speech ready! And when you say that I chose once again "the rottenness of communication, the cover-up, hypocrisy, decay, the transfer of my heavy responsibilities", you wrote these before you heard my speech. I recognize with great courage the mistakes we have made. I have asked once again for apologies for the omissions of the state mechanism and have proposed a number of measures on how to get better and correct them. Didn't you hear all this? Didn't you hear them? I mean, I really am trying to understand if it makes sense for this dialogue, since you are absolutely determined to come here and say what you want. You know, the beauty of the parliamentary system is that we can - as now with Mr Varoufakis, with whom I have very great differences - discuss and pursue a common place. But we can't discuss these conditions. If your purpose is to come here for forty-five minutes to shoot with specific designations questioning my ability and my character, you have every right to do so. But don't wait until then to talk about stepping up political dialogue and don't be surprised after everything you say, basically, nobody listens to them. With what great convenience even you choose to twist things that I say. And I'll answer just one point to show what I'm saying. I referred to a very specific example of the Bilia fire, and I said: tell us if you really believe that we did something wrong with this fire, to point us to this particular fire what we were doing wrong. Maybe we did make mistakes. I didn't say we didn't! And you're caught by that to say I'm canceling the apology that I said and I'm coming over here to get back what I said! All right, are these serious things? Can we have a debate, Mr. Tsipras, on these terms? I've said it before. For me, apology is also a personal need, it is political action. It also expresses my deepest grief about what has happened, but also the responsibility that, in the end, the Prime Minister has the final role for what is happening, what is going well and what is going wrong in the country, and what is going wrong with my will to do better next time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And can I tell you something, Mr. Tsipras? I'm telling you, I'm not being tempered with you. You're not my comparison. I would have put the bar too low if I just wanted to be better than you! I put the cubit up, we put the cubit up, and we courageously say that despite the efforts we made this summer on environmental protection, we have passed under the bar that we have put. We have the courage to say this frankly! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, what I find very difficult to understand is this black humor, which you have enlisted in the conclusion of your speech, that the Greek people will send "112" to New Democracy to evacuate us from power. I did not intend, Mr Tsipras - and I think you understood it from my point of view - to refer to the past. You forced me to do it with what you said. And I want to read to you something to tell me how you feel, how you people are blaming me for lack of consciousness. You said: 'Where at the time of a tragedy proves that it cannot feel the pain and anxiety of others'. You three years after Matty, how do you respond to this lady? "If you were looking for your mother days and crying out of her without knowing why she was in the form of a log, if you saw the skin of your neighbors melting from the heat load, if you had seen sheded charred children, if you would have given DNA to see if your man was in the bag, if you would wipe bodies off the street, you would have understood the importance of evacuation." You have not even understood what has happened for your days three years ago! [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] And you're talking to me about empathy! You who set up the show that night with the ministers when you knew there were dead!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u45	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u46	You went out and told the fireman "what to do with the two grand, you'll spend it"! Not to say what you were doing three weeks, you who were so empathetic about the Eye issue!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u47	It's easy to be a tombster!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u48	Please! Please! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u49	No, gentlemen! Don't talk at all! Don't talk! Because we in this tragedy for four days have not said a word and when we criticised you, we criticised you on two very specific issues. The first was your complete inability to evacuate the world from Matty. It's a complete weakness. That was the cause. That was the cause of the tragedy! The second reason we criticised you was for the bad show you set up that night when you knew there were dead. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We criticised you for your ministers and satellite photographs that this is where the fires entered. Have we forgotten all this? You didn't have the courage, you never apologized! You never apologized! I wish, to close this wound, I wish you had the courage to do it today. Be careful, then, when addressing others and judging them. The nature of the policies is judged by their actions and by their words. I'm not the one who will judge your character or you will judge mine. The Greek people will judge us both and they will see and compare and remember that, in one tragedy, we were unfortunately counting acres on the other and counting coffins! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to the rest of what you have said, starting with an answer that I owe you and Mrs Gennamas on the issue of the statements made by the Regional Administrator, Mr Spaniard. Mr. Spanos made a statement that I have in front of me, in which he says: "I never claimed that they did not want to erase the fire or that they consciously let it expand. This would be outrageous for any government and any command of firefighting. I heard and invoked testimony from residents for fire extinguishers who had a duty not to intervene on specific fronts for fire extinguishers' safety reasons. Another thing is the shortcomings and mistakes we have identified and the conspiracy theories that grow with nothing and only harm us." So that's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u50	I was a selfish witness on the regional council, and things were completely different!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Apostle, please don't interrupt! What's this? You're not used to us like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u52	So that's what Mr. Spaniard said. I ask you this: do you really think that there is a political leadership or administration of the firefighting or local authority that can order no suppression? What does that mean? The suggestion that you leave, when you twist such a statement, is that some wanted Evia to burn. They were the firearms there, they were the planes there, they were trying to fly, but someone wanted Evia to burn! With these suggestions you throw mud, water in the mill of all those who question the sincere effort despite the mistakes made. I told you at the first moment, listen to it well: mistakes were made and mistakes were made in Evia, with the most important fact that, unfortunately, we had to get back valuable air means to fight the revival of Attica! How much clearer can I tell you? However, this is completely different from implying that some wanted to burn Evia for other reasons. Who, then? To be wind turbines? To be able to avenge northern Evia for some reason I do not understand? And anyway, because I heard a lot about the fact that after the Eye you took your homework, you made a conclusion, which, as I said, has many good facts, you should understand that too much of what we are doing is suggestions of the Goldenmer finding. One might disagree. You tell us to make the Civil Protection Authority independent, I disagree. Civil protection is a hard core of the state. If that's the case, then we can make the police an independent authority. No, it will not become an independent authority, but it will be a professional structure with serious staff, with an organisational chart aimed at the range of challenges that we have to face and with funding resources, so that we can finally acquire the equipment we need. Mr Velopoulos spoke, he did a very good analysis of all the planes that we need to take. I am pleased that you are so expert on this subject, but I would like to tell you that, in order to take Canander, Mr Velopole, we have to put forward the Canander line, because the '515' - which is the change of '415' - is not currently produced and we are in agreement with other European partners, so that we can make a whole big European order and achieve better prices and allow the Canander line to go ahead. And you made a reference to the pilots of today's Canander. They're heroes! The kids who fly the "215", which are fifty-year-old planes, are heroes! Heroes, like heroes, are the technicians who keep them in the air! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you come now, Mrs. Gennamas, tell me "a, we had seventy-four planes, but they didn't all fly!". What are you saying? What are you saying? Have you gone for a walk at night to the maintenance unit, see what a huge effort these kids make to keep the plane on the air? And yes, some cannot fly for technical reasons!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u53	I asked you how much they flew and you didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u54	What do you want to fly over and above their hours, beyond and above their limits? You were the Deputy Minister of National Defence, you should know that! From there on, the means at our disposal were very specific, were much more than other years. Obviously, some do not fly for technical reasons and obviously - I will tell you again, understand - they do not throw away all the resources together. They fly half so that when they leave these half to go the rest half to continue the work. Is it that hard to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u55	We know that. We asked how many they were flying in every fire.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u56	And we used all kinds of air means, even within which we knew they were not fully suited for our needs and Illusin, even under certain conditions to be able to be useful and helicopters from Australia. Through a generous private sponsorship we now brought helicopters from Australia, we loaded them on a huge Antonov, and we brought them. So we did what was humanely possible in this part, so that we could respond at this time. And in any case, what exactly was delivered to us? You told us that you delivered us and kindly said to us, Mr Tsipras - you accused me of being arrogant and obsolete, and I do not know what else you said to me - if you can testify to us very much in the Minutes of this House, all the projects that you had, the infamous ones, about how you had it all set up, but you still did not go ahead because of the elections. So I ask you to testify, to submit to the Minutes what exactly you had done, in addition to the Goldenmer conclusion - I have it here with me - and what exactly was this great preparation, how did you have it all set up and how, for this reason, the elections were held - what are we to do? - and here you didn't make it. We voted for a law, I've got it here and great, but it was with a lot of articles. Indeed, it is true that some of the articles of this law have not yet been fully implemented. It is Law 4662, National Crisis Management Mechanism, Article 27: Compulsory evacuations. What have you done, Mr. Tsipras? Did you vote for it? Did you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u57	He was on parole!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u58	You voted against it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have voted against it, as you have voted against too many articles. Mr. Hardalias and the members of Civil Protection and the Secretary-General are at your disposal at any time to give you a tour of the new building and to remember where the Civil Protection was before. It was in a building that didn't even meet basic earthquake forecasts. That's where you had the Civil Protection! Is the Civil Protection where we would like it to be? No, it's not yet. But do we have a plan and a programme and a funding, so that the Civil Protection will come to the level that we need, so that we can really respond to all these difficulties that will be met? Of course we have the plan! And if you have specific proposals, I'll say it again, come and testify! If you think the solution is to become an independent authority, we tell you clearly, we disagree. But if you have proposals, for example, because I have heard this talk many times about how to involve volunteers better in civil protection, there is currently a huge voluntary potential. I have spoken personally - I have been dealing with these issues for many years - with many volunteers. I saw what we are doing well, I saw how we will resolve our communications issues - we also have issues in communications - but most importantly, how we will get into the forests at the time of the fire and how we will make use of the autumn, winter and spring with enhanced forestry services so that we can intervene more in the forests. But can I tell you something? It is nice to read - and I address Mrs Gennimata as well - a list of good theoretical ideas. Sometimes I get the impression that those who tell you that they've never been in the woods. Is it possible at this moment to discuss that we will clean up all the forests of Greece, sixty-two million acres of forests? Not all the forests of Greece can be cleaned! Of course, forests can be made more productive, of course - and I have said that, and this has been happening - there are forests of particular ecological importance for which we need specific management plans. We cannot have the same plans and the same attention in all our forests. It can't be done, it's humanely impossible, and anyone who tells you the opposite doesn't know very simply what he's talking about. For example, in Evia, you come here to put together with Mr Beno, a plan to protect the Dirfis forest, which is the main large forest of Evia, which has fortunately been saved from this disaster. We have a duty of time to protect it with all our means after what happened. We have tried to do the same with the peri-urban forests of Attica, and yes, I said it clearly, we did not succeed and I apologize for that. It's not that we didn't set a target, it's not that we didn't try it, we didn't make it, and responsibility is burdening us on it. But come on, instead of just going into personal descriptions and present specific proposals on the ground. Political protection has a cross-party committee. You haven't even participated yet! Let Mr Spirtzis go - we thank him very much for visiting the Minister at the hospital - to take part in the committee, to tell us specific things, 'that you must not do so, you must not do so otherwise, you must not buy the trawlers, you must buy something else'. You have the AEGEAN programme, make your remarks, in particular what you think is right and what you think is wrong. At least by Mrs Gennamas - to tell the truth - I have heard a number of proposals and with some of them I believe that we are in agreement and are moving in the same direction. And yes, local communities must have a say, Mrs. Gennamas. Obviously the reconstruction plans must not only concern Evia. In particular, Olympia is right to point out that it is a destination of such importance and it has been hit twice by a fire which needs a corresponding project. It is right that what you say specifically about this region which is of such great and special importance. You have even referred to the speed with which we make the allowances. I do not want to make comparisons with what happened to natural disasters on your own days and when they were paid. Mr. Triantopoulos has all the evidence. Go and ask the citizens in Carditsa or the Samos citizens if they think we have responded faster. For the first time money went in so fast and for the first time, so much money went in, not because the money is more - look out - but why we integrated the platforms into one. We didn't say we gave more money. But we said that we incorporated the building along with the subsidy we give for the reconstruction of the house. We're very honest with what we said. But we've given it in a week. When did this happen before? And since you also talked about the earthquake that hit North Larissa, as you remember, a public building was demolished and is the school in Damasi. This is the new school in four months! I hope I can be there in sanctification! [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall close because I have had a long time, Mr President - and I apologise in advance for not being able to follow all the speakers, because at 16:15 I shall have to leave to meet the European Commissioner for Crisis Management - with an overall comment on the political climate in our country and with this effort, unfortunately, some to describe this government as a divisive government. On the occasion of the issue of vaccination and the measures announced by the government, we are not dividing anyone, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a reality, which says that despite our very valuable work and our efforts, we are now a little below the European average in terms of the rate of vaccination and the overall population and adults. Can anyone blame the government for not organising a flawless vaccination procedure? It would be unfair, I think. Can anyone blame the government for not putting any vaccines at the disposal of the citizens tomorrow? And that would be unfair. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated tomorrow can be taken. Can anyone blame the government for not investing in an effort of persuasive Greek society? For our return, you accused us of sharing money through the "lista Petsa". We have made many efforts to inform the public and through advertising paid by the state budget, by enforcing all the experts and by making available to the citizens all the information they now have, to explain a simple reality, that unfortunately more than 90% of our fellow citizens are invaded, and that they are thirteen times more likely to incorporate someone who is incomplete than anyone who is vaccinated. I didn't see the Opposition putting too much back on all this argument. I'm not going to get into what some of your executives say. This is another time's debate. Let me have reasonable doubts as to how much you are actively involved in this persuasive effort. But who exactly do you blame the government for splitting up? On the one hand, there is a large majority - we are talking about the majority of adults - I am not putting children in the equation of obviously - responsible citizens, rational citizens with social responsibility and, on the other, there is a minority of our citizens who are still refusing. But we want to use all the tools, persuasiveness and some restrictive measures to convince them - because that is exactly what is a division - when we are faced with this reality that is not just a Greek reality. With the exception of some countries that have done so extremely well, such as Portugal, the most European countries are just over where our country is or just under where our country is located. We all face the same problem. And you will remember, all the countries will go to corresponding restrictions on the invaders. Therefore, I would suggest that we put aside all these debates on divisions. Those who feed them are the ones who seem to be pursuing the division. However, because this government does not pursue any division, it makes it absolutely clear what the rights are and what the obligations of all Greek citizens are. And those who acted responsible will not pay the bride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u59	Series now, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Police Response and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group "Risk Left- Progressive Alliance Coalition". Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis did not stand and in his second speech he showed us his true face, the real face of the cynic trumpet. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It was in the presence of the Prime Minister, with trembling and a lie that continues now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is a sign that it throws 'white towel' on the critical questions that are asked not by me but by the citizens who are asking for an answer. Instead of my criticism, I will read to him an interesting message, a tweet as we say, a "tweeting" of one that I will tell you who it is. At the time of the disaster, I saw this interest on the Internet: "The continued use of a previous tragedy, such as Eye, for the purpose of vindicating the actions of power in the present, is politically immoral, anti-educational and anti-political. Each government must make the best possible solution to a disaster." That's what Mr. Leuteris Kusoulis said. Who's that? Evidently he is not a supporter of SYRIZA, he is obviously not a supporter of the government and of our days, but he is one of the key communicationists man, key supporters on the Internet of anti-SYRIZA front of Mr Mitsotakis and his government. [[Noise - Protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm signing up to the last line of what he wrote. It's unpolitical and immoral. Do you have any answers for today? We have been judged and taken on political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u61	When did you take them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u62	In the elections, ladies and gentlemen, we took political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u63	Come on, come on. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u64	When I met you at some point, Mr. Mitsotakis, you will remember that it was those days that Mr. Chrysochoidis sitting next to you - but he has shots sometimes, I don't know how much longer he's sitting next to you, but today he sits two chairs next to you - he dared go out to the media and say that SYRIZA burned a hundred people in Matti. That was your political morality, your political attitude, your political education, your political morality. So I told you, then - but it is time to shoot, Mr Chrysochide - that I wish you as long as you are the Prime Minister not to succeed in such a human tragedy. Of course, on the second day you accused me of cynical and destructive, and all of your members have then condemned me personally and the Ministers of SYRIZA. You asked for all the resignations, and that was your election flag. But a few months after you were elected, you went to the United Nations General Assembly and said this was an unprecedented phenomenon of the climate crisis. You did not say that in the election. You did it later. And, of course, - and I said it in my first speech, and I repeat it - on the next dramatic day I asked the Minister for Civilian Protection at the time, immediately after completing the attempt to suppress fires - it was not just one - as it had to launch its resignation process. He opened the debate with me and I told him 'This is how it should be done, Nico'. Do you really have such a conversation with Mr. Chrysochide who is next to you or who was holding the horn and rewarding him for that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's been fifteen days. Fifteen days after Eye, the Minister, who had the political ethos to resign, was not in his place the Chief of Police, was not in his place the Chief of Firefighting. The Chief of Police, who then had one of the main responsibilities, was dismissed, because you will remember that much of our fellow people who have been lost, who have gone unjustly, were because they have implemented a plan - God make it a plan! - diversion of traffic within the settlement that was full of dead roads. So, for this man, who has the main responsibility and is the Secretary General of the Ministry of Civil Protection, will you say a word? My question is: What do you owe him, Mr. Mitsotakis? Why did you make him a secretary while he was discharged? Why are you holding him? Didn't you have any more executives than your resignation? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The man who is supposed to coordinate the work of fire suppression, Mr. Kollouris, who praises his political leaders and who, at the time of the Evia disaster, said that he ignores exactly what he throws from air over the island because he was in Parnitha - that is the ultimate responsibility! - those days were the critical lieutenant. After the Captain's dismissal, he became Chief. And you kept him. During your administration justice itself came out and blamed him, because he was six hours late to go to the place of destruction. Why are you holding him? Why are you holding him? What do you owe him, Mr. Mitsotakis, that you have the nerve again three years later to come here with the same populist impulse of trembling to shave wounds? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I took political responsibility and took up all the great suffering of this catastrophe, this great and insubstantial disaster. But I'll come to today. Finally, Mr. Mitsotakis, will you tell us why you apologise to the Greek people? What was the mistake? Since in your first speech - and I am sure you have nothing to say in your speech - with a particularly aggressive tone toward me, you have not admitted anything. You told me I didn't hear you. You've talked again about this strange apology. I'm sorry, you're taking her and you're poking her as a confetti, but you don't have to explain why. I'm sorry, while you did all this perfectly? I'm sorry, there wasn't any mistakes? What was the mistake? Where were you wrong? Who made the mistake? So hypocritical, your apology, hypocritical and your statement that you understand anger and indignation. You said in your first speech and said so with a very perimeter tone referring to the struggling people in the affected areas at the time of the crisis, which obviously called for fire-fighting means: citizens want a helicopter above their settlement. That's what you said arrogantly. And who said that? The man who raised two military helicopters to go to show Lignade in Epidaurus and not to spoil his vacation in Antiparos! He accused the inhabitants in the affected areas of wanting each one to have a helicopter over his village. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So hypocritical, too, the statement of understanding anger. It is hypocritical and your statement that the responsibilities will be attributed on time and where appropriate. And I ask you - do you have the possibility of responding to your teratology - where should you be given responsibilities? Who? Obviously you are well aware that I am absolutely right to say that the responsibilities have a single exclusive owner. It's you, Mr. Mitsotakis. You know that and you will obviously not bear that responsibility to yourself. However, it has already been attributed to you by the majority of the Greek people and those who voted for you and supported you, because they had accepted your basic argument, that you are supposed to create a perfect state, but in fact you have thrown a flag of opportunity, you have created a womb to maintain the same pathogens and make them even worse. You referred to the clarifications made by the Regional Director of Central Greece, Mr Spanos. It goes without saying that it would make clarifications after this bomb which it threw at the meeting of the regional council. Obviously, the man would also accept your own pressures, but he would certainly understand what Mrs Gennama said in her speech that such a statement would obviously move that self-evidently, in my view, investigation by the judicial authorities. However, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Spanos' complaints of non-democracy were unstoppable throughout the fire in Evia. The fire goes on unstoppable, it burns a forest. We want at last a significant number of air instruments that we have been calling for since the first day. The fire doesn't just erase the bulldozers, and if we let it go, it can get everywhere. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] ‘Galazians’ MPs, elected mayors, self-government with the support of the New Democracy. Anger from the "Blue" Mayor of Istias for the Final State: Inadequacy, inefficiency, lack of coordination. I'll testify to the Minutes. You told us that where the mistake was made was not about other fires. Is that what you told us? So tell us that the other mistakes were made and what they were. Who was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u65	...Heavybomb...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u66	Where were the mistakes? Is Barumbas wrong? What was it? In northern Evia, was it wrong? What was it? If your statement only concerned Vilia. And in Villia, however, the president of the community - and obviously the man who was not elected by SYRIZA - said: The officials failed. No coordination. They don't know any streets. They're pleading unresponsible. The President of the Villion Community. He's not a SYRIZA strain. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So you came here today to say... Where's the mistake? Show it to us. And, of course, what makes it even more angry is the effort that has been made and now even so that with threats to the people who have fought fire like firemen in northern Evia do not talk about the terrifying deficiencies that existed in the ground fire-fighting instruments, such as the threats to SADs and persecutions of fire-fighters recorded by the media. I submit the relevant articles in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And, of course, I would like to ask you today if you would welcome, Mr Mitsotakis, the SAD ordered by Lieutenant Thiftospyros. Unless you're telling us there's no SAD. To know that there is no SAD. You told us that it was the fault of climate change and that we could not do better. Indeed, this year we had an extremely hot summer in the Mediterranean. But since you like comparisons, I will give you three tables to study them well. Because we had no more climate here, no more climate in Turkey and no more climate in Italy. The first painting shows that in our country we had sixty-six mapped forest fires. We are one in Europe in number of fires. Increase from around 44% last year. The second table shows the total burned area in acres and shows that Greece had an increase of nearly 500% on the ground from the average of the period 2008-2020, of the twelfth year. A 500% increase. Only 44% increase in fires, 500% increase in burnt land. The third table records the burned area per forest fire and shows Greece as a champion throughout Europe with nineteen thousand acres burned per fire almost twice as high as the second Turkey and more than twice as many other countries of the European Union of the Mediterranean, which also had the same climatic conditions. What do these paintings mean, Mr. Mitsotakis? These paintings, Mr. Mitsotakis, mean that the fires went off when they got to the sea. And the question is, why did that only happen here? Why has our country finally achieved worse results than neighbouring Turkey? Why? Because your only priority, Mr Mitsotakis, was the evacuation rather than the suppression, and because the last time you advertised a state of over-modern ends, and it was outraged, and because you did not give a dime for the necessary actions and interventions to be taken in prevention. Is it wrong to prioritise human life? Of course not. Do we adopt it? We adopt it. Do we feel that human life is a priority? Yes, human life is a priority, but not the only priority. It cannot be the only priority and all the other "land fire is mixed". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have already asked me in the same known arrogant and aggressive style as if we were apologizing, to tell you what we were doing and not what you did. I will tell you that all you have developed from what we have left you is '112'. The project to upgrade 112 was co-financed. Ask Mr. Kikilia who didn't get there. Who has appointed as the Minister of Civil Protection this project from European Union funding in 2014? For the launch of the project, therefore, I have the statements made by Ms. Gerovasili, Minister for Civil Protection in Parliament in May 2019, which announces that the pilot phase starts and that the final delivery of the project is expected at the end of autumn 2019. That's right, then. Because the state has to keep up with it. A very useful tool. You found it and you developed it. Everything else why not? That's the question. You falsely said that you took care of most of the airline in ever. Mr Mitsotakis, the means they were trying - unless you did any other competition we did not see - were the means provided for by the competition organised and implemented by the previous government in May 2019. Here's the competition. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] There was no other aerial competition in there. All the means that Mr. Scortsos, who belong to the forces of the Fire Service, was the ones that relate to the oldest and the 2019 competition plus the rents of Russian Berifs, and of course the support we had then, unfortunately, from the European Union and from other countries. So the poaching that Mr. Scortsos did, which you continued today, to compare not what you received in 2019, after the competition, but in 2018 by 2021, is another proof that you are trying to leave, escape, escape your heavy responsibilities even with lies. We are now going to what you accused me of mentioning them without evidence. So because you have disproved me, I am presenting to you in the Minutes what we have proceeded with by literally applying the Goldamer conclusion and which you have frozen or suspended or hid in the drawer. Ministerial decision by Socrates Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment, to prevent fires and the recruitment of five hundred forestists, forest fighters with funding programmes and approved funding of 140m euros. What have you guys done? You did not go along with the intake of the five hundred people, and you obviously thought that there was sufficient human resources to prevent them. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Joint Ministerial Decision Femelo - Gerovali for cooperation with the Fire Service and Forest Service, precisely in the faithful implementation of the Goldamer conclusion. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Common Ministerial Decision in May 2018 on the Forest Fire extinguisher programme of five thousand sixty-six forest fire extinguishers. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Prolongation of the programme on 21 March 2019. What have you guys done? You froze them. You froze the programs. You sent the five thousand people away. They were more than enough. They didn't need to protect our forests. Only officers rushed in to keep the higher education institutions. When I speak from this Step, Mr Mitsotakis, I speak documentaryly. There's the minutes. If you have any answer to give it to why you have not applied any of this since you took over the country's governance. I'm coming back, closing down, Mr. President. I have tabled two proposals, I believe, extremely useful and critical for the next day. I must not forget, of course, the forest maps, Mr Mitsotakis. And you doubted that. We've reached 44%. Or are you not questioning that? Because I have here the European Commission's monitoring report, where it accepts and welcomes the fact that Greece has reached from 0.8% of the forest maps - I was wrong when I was talking about 3% - to 44%. Here you go. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And, of course, in order to serve the small-party purposes, to be pleasing to a few citizens who may not feel comfortable with this arrangement which has to be done for years in the country, you have suspended the forest maps. I'm closing up saying this. We have put forward with a sense of responsibility a proposal for a law on the reorganisation of civil protection for a National Civil Protection and Resilience Authority. This proposal provides for a permanent and ongoing scientific council from all the scientific institutes and structures of the country involved in the prediction, study, research and experiment in the field of natural disasters: the "Democritus", the National Meteorological Service, the National Observatory, the Hellenic Atomic Energy Commission, the University and Polytechnic Institutes, and a permanent and permanent administrative staff, with the participation of all the operational armours of the Firefighting, the EMCDDA, the Hellenic Police, the Port Authority, voluntary bodies, Forest Service, technical services and addresses of the Ministry of Infrastructure and with the authorisation to exploit the capabilities, means, personnel and experience available to our Armed Forces in the management of emergency needs and situations. The logic is that we should be able to stop this multi-management and the responsibilities of dozens of institutions and ministries. You don't like the idea of an independent authority? Come and build the structure, or if you want. But don't throw it in the trash, Mr. Mitsotakis. The main reason for the fact that today we have once again, unfortunately, been unscrupulous in the face of an incredible disaster - is that you have thrown this proposal, the Golddammer Finding and all the actions that we have done except for 112 - in the trash. Come on, you, with your responsibility as government, dialogue to fortify the country and the citizens, to have a civil protection worthy and similar to other services in other European and non-EU countries. Not every government that goes up to put its own executive, just like you did. I have nothing with the Undersecretary. I've got the operating model. I do not know if you have - you will probably blame him on the next reform - but that is why I said - and I repeat - that it is not worth changing a minister if you leave the pathogens themselves, the structures that are wrong-oriented. And I close by telling you that the emergency income, which I asked you to adopt as a proposal for the affected, is, as we see it, the least we can see immediately, if we really care about, not only the day after tomorrow, what will happen after six months, but what will happen in these areas where these people will no longer have income. It is not similar to the situation with other natural disasters, because it is not only their homes or their assets in many of the regions - I, at least, know for sure Northern Evia and Elias, but it may also be in other areas - because the majority of people there will not be able to produce income. It has burned its means of production, the olive groves where they took out the olives have burned the trees that took out the resin. How will these people live? So I repeat this proposal, and I call on you to see it not with an obsolete opposition, but to see it as a proposal for a substantial contribution to deal with the next day. Mr. Mitsotakis, the ultimate state as inspiration might have been interesting as an application has failed miserably. It was a communal firework. Today is the greatest joke, the best joke that is circulating within the Greek society. As an indication of understanding, at least make sure that you do not rebuild a government of fifty eight Ministers. You have a perfect shape of fifty eight Ministers. Maybe the most crowded of post-multiple after. Because this is a real irony, to speak of a so-called state of government, and not to be able as Prime Minister to make a reshape because you are pressed by internal conflicts and conflicts, so that you can have a form of government that is at least equivalent to what you call a state that is finally called a state. In any case, however, I invite you from now on to assume your responsibility and to speak less, to do more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u67	As the time has come, as we have said from the outset, to depart from the Prime Minister, I will ask him to now give an opinion on his teratology, at least in order to exercise all the rights he has had today, before leaving for this important date he has in a while. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u68	Ten minutes is my denture. Can't you wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u69	Mrs. Gennamas, from the first moment on, I had informed us that we had five hours at our disposal. I think that five hours are enough to place ourselves, if we were all trying to keep track of the times. You knew the margins from the first moment. And allow me, Mr. Tsipras, that I will not ask your permission for when and how much I want to speak. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I think that you understand that, that I have the right to express myself in full without asking for the agreement of the opposition. But you are right to say that in the end we are not judging what we are talking about, we are judged on what we are doing. And the ultimate state as a form of accountability for coordination and the possibility of carrying out complex projects involving many ministries and that will ultimately be judged on the result. Don't worry, the fund always happens at election time. I understand that you have no special prerogative to ask for elections. The reasons, I think, you know them as well as I know them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to answer a number of issues that Mr Tsipras raised very briefly. First of all, once again, Mr Tsipras, you are lying about air means. Well, in 2021, compared to 2019, we added four heavy-type helicopters, Berife and six trawlers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u70	...It didn't sound
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u71	These helicopters were added in relation to 2019. And the final result is that this year we had the most airline in ever. That's the truth. Now don't try to twist the data just to convince us that you had all planned it well. Are you questioning these are the numbers? Are you questioning them? You do not question them because you know that this is the truth. Are you questioning that there is a Berife? I remember Mr. Spirtzi asking questions 'Where' is Berife? Why doesn't Berife fly, Mr. Spirtzi? Why doesn't Berif fly? Did he fill out the hundred hours and why three days ago did a Berife fall into Turkey and the company find that he wanted increased maintenance? You wanted to take it off, so when the company told us that it needed an increased service? And Bérife, that is, you had taken care of it, but for your days it just didn't come. Now, two very fast face issues. I imagine you know that Mr Tsouvalas has been relieved of justice for days SYRIZA and even at the stage of preliminary investigation as having no responsibility for the matter of Eye. You know that, I imagine. I'm not telling you anything new. As I imagine you've known or learned since your department manager's bad announcement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u72	Didn't you ask Mr. Tsubalas to resign when you were opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u73	Wait a minute, wait a minute, don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u74	I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u75	Don't get upset. I understand you're a little upset, but restrain yourself. Well, the chief of fire, Mr. Kollouris, I want to remind you that it was promoted twice. On 9 August 2018, the Vice-President, who was then - if I am not mistaken - is promoted by the FEK. Nine days later, you made him a general - first FEK - to give it to Mr Tsipras to remember all this - and second FEK on 1 February 2019, when Mr Kolokouris made him first lieutenant, Lieutenant General.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u76	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u77	So I don't want to remind this House who you had in charge of the firefighting. This gentleman, who was going to your election gatherings and for whom there are very interesting sounds about how he intervened in questioning Matty. For forest maps: I guess someone didn't tell you that you inherited a situation with a hundred and seventy-five thousand objections - so serious work you had done on forest maps - which forced us to reassess the process and indeed to proceed with a job that is very serious and very important. Mr. Tsipras, I'm not saying you didn't make any progress. You did half a job with many problems, which we are invited to complete. We agree, however, in this Chamber that forest maps are absolutely essential despite the fact that we too have seen major weaknesses in their training, which had to do with the fact that unfortunately different forests have judged the nature of an area with quite different criteria. That's what you inherited us. I am not saying that you have made no progress on this, but you left a number of problems which we had to resolve. But we agree in this Chamber that it is indeed the forest maps that are a conquest for the country, and we must complete the process and resolve a number of unfinished issues. And the first thing we have to do is correct failures in the forest maps, which came from the fact that land, especially in our islands that should not be scientifically forested, has been drawn up as forests. We're not going to submit the citizens to the trouble of making objections. We will correct the forest maps before we force the citizens to pay to correct an injustice for which the administration is ultimately responsible. So that's what we do for forest maps. And I'll close with a more positive note. Look, we have a disagreement about whether civil protection should be an independent authority. I have told you from the outset that it does not mean, in my opinion, an independent authority when we talk about the hard core of the state. It's like you're telling me that the police or the fire department must be an independent authority. But we have a law that is very specific to civil protection. As I said, we have a financial plan for Civil Protection. We have an obligation - and it is something for which I am responsible for doing so - to reconstitute the establishment plan of civil protection and better interconnect with the Directorate-General for Forests, which now has exclusive competence in the Ministry of the Environment, to see how civil protection can do its job better. I would therefore ask you, what you have not done to date, to do so immediately and to indicate to us a man - he may be Mr Spirtz, or whoever you want, and I would ask all parties to do so - to put forward their proposals on how they believe that the law we have - there is a particular law - can be better operationally. Do not start talking about an independent authority again, because I have told you from the outset that this is something I disagree with. But if there are any interventions to be made in the establishment plan, we must listen to them. You referred to the Scientific Council, as if a scientific board would solve the problem. I can assure you that yes, independent bodies such as EMI, such as the Observatory, should collide within Civil Protection, should be part of the Civil Protection and not be independent bodies. That's our proposal. We are happy to discuss it with you, to hear your views. It is not currently possible to have different views and to fight meteorologists as to whether the wind was 6 boots or 4 boxers or 8 boxers. These are not serious things, overall for the image of the country. There must be a structure within Civil Protection that integrates the best possible know-how that the state has in terms of predictive models. If you had bothered to read our plan, you would see that one of the axes of the program "AIGIS" is the reinforcement of our predictive models with too many data detection stations that will allow us to be more accurate in predicting phenomena. We have very complex phenomena to deal with. But some are predictable. The course of a fire on condition can be predictable. There are models that we want to evaluate. Someone's working better, someone's working worse. The human experience in the field is of enormous importance, but surely the technology in this piece can help us very much. The same applies to the floods. We know what the water basins are. We are aware of the intensity of weather, and at least we have the possibility of flooding, where there is little to do at the moment of the phenomenon, of evacuation and of the safe transport of the citizens on the road to fortification. Well, I expect all parties to tell us who our interlocutor will be on civil protection issues. It is already provided for in the law, it is intergrouping and we will look forward with great interest to your proposals. I can assure you that I have no difficulty with any positive proposals to incorporate it into our initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u78	The process continues normally, with the denology of Ms. Fotini Genomes, President of the Parliamentary Group, the Change Movement. Come on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, I have to say that I was very pleased when this debate was announced, because to a large extent the Change Movement caused it, since we called for the House to be opened earlier and for the fires to be discussed in advance. But, as this debate is evolving here, I must admit that I am deeply disappointed, because listening to the Prime Minister but also to the Civic Opposition I feel that this whole debate is far from the real needs of people in the regions affected, but also to the feelings they feel, which are mostly anger, indignation, disappointment. I would like to point out that in this gloomy climate there are people who have fought with self-sacrificing sacrifice and deserve to recognise it and are worth telling them too much congratulations. From firefighters, who worked without guidance and without a plan in adverse conditions to the Port, who especially saved thousands of human lives in Evia, and did not hear a single word from the Prime Minister's lips on this issue, the police that helped evacuate the settlements and, of course, the people of self-government who have really fought all these days and the volunteers, thanks to which most of the settlements were saved. I now come to the essence of the debate. There is no doubt that here we have specific results, which show that the state, the so-called state, of Mr Mitsotakis has failed. It has collapsed, unfortunately, with tragic results for both forests and for the affected and for their properties and for the prospect of all these regions. It is clear that the so-called state failed both the pandemic and the pandemic of the fires. Citizens just don't feel safe with this government anymore. It seems that Mr Mitsotakis is very disturbed by the substantiated criticism and degradation with particular elements, so he chose to leave and not listen to my positions and my dentistry. In fact, he has suffered a real handicap in his dentistry against me, trying to underestimate what I was saying, trying to say that I do not understand and that as a man he must explain to the woman what he does not understand. So he has to respect it. It is obvious that every time he feels he's cornering, he loses his civil courtesy. What he did is called mansplaining and he should understand it and at the very first opportunity to apologize. Because I know, very well, and how planes operate and how forest cleansing is done. I have had personal experience of self-government for many years in civil protection and with very important and positive results for the progress of things in Attica, at least, on the part of the supremacy that concerned me. It is obvious that what I asked about the planes was how much they were trying, how much in every fire and who took the decision on how the planes would be allocated. Who took the planes from Evia and who made the final decisions at the business center. And it's obvious he doesn't have to give me any answers, or I think it's a difficult answer to the answers he has to give me, so he went down to that particular bump. Because he did not want to give the answer, which shows who is responsible, who has to take that responsibility. Because the government has a total responsibility, and if they did what they did in their power, as the Prime Minister told us, then I am sorry, but the result is far below the circumstances and needs of this society. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] As for the report that citizens were asking for the time of the fire, a helicopter above their home and indeed in the arrogant way, which was said to be how far away they were from how these people, who were trying to save their homes, were begging for help and were not finding it from anywhere and the little fire trucks were fleeing, telling them: "You have to evacuate the space. That's the order. Go away. We cannot help you." That's what the district manager said, but they then made him repack. There are too many complaints in all regions. And I have to tell you that the firefighters themselves said that in Evia they needed 200 firearms with the size of the fire and they didn't have twenty-two. From the time the planes left Evia, and until they returned, seven settlements were burned, seven settlements were destroyed. No one's taking that responsibility? And you're ironically talking about helicopters that everyone wants above home when there's such a catastrophe? I was expecting more self-criticism. I was expecting sincere apologies, but it is clear that the apology was totally pretext. There is no final state of New Democracy. In Maximos there is an anonymous company, which only deals with business interests and even with few and strong ones. And it seemed like this and how they handled the issue of Piraeus Bank and the "ELLENIC PERPELAY" and how the colleges handled it against public universities and how they handle the issues of RES only for the large and powerful and how they handle the issue of labour and insurance. Of course, civil protection is at the core of the state. The control mechanisms in the workplace aren't at the core of the state? So that's what you're telling us today. It is clear to you, ladies and gentlemen, how you deal with the issues of workers and controls in this area. With all your choices your policies and your inability to deal with crises, inequality in difficult conditions for the place is widened. '22 will be a very difficult financial year for Greek citizens and you have a great responsibility for this development. Don't keep moving the finger to give you who will cooperate with you and who will tell you our suggestions. You have no institutional function and you do not pursue it. We've indicated to you our representatives for months. We have submitted our proposals for months. You haven't even read them or dealt with them. And you're coming again to face a huge crisis on communal terms. That is all you know to do and find an alibi to climate change. The climate crisis is here. And if you want PASOK, the democratic party with George Papandreou in the past few years were the only ones we talked about in time. And we did not just speak, we proceeded with concrete measures. When was the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change created? For today. When did the Green Fund become? When was the HELIOS programme for RES? When did cooperation take place in the Mediterranean? And now the Mediterranean is flaming, but we have the sad primacy in front of and from Turkey to have the most burnt areas proportionally and no one is quitting and everyone is in their place, and everyone is doing their job very well. It is our fault that we do not understand, but it understands very well that the Greek people. Do you know what GREEN PEACE says? Climate change is the best excuse for those in power who know they didn't do anything when they could. That's exactly what happened. You didn't do anything when you could from what you could. And, of course, there are delays in compensation from all previous disasters. The balls are still in Damasy, they're not packed. The red tape's going well. And the worst of all has to do with Crete. Months for decisions to be taken, nine and ten months for companies to be compensated, a huge delay, which is impossible to repeat in the specific situation of the regions affected at the moment. And most important of all, there must be no speculation on the burnt. Not a single euro should be given without transparency and accountability and control. But you seem to be afraid of control and institutional functioning. Why, then, are you afraid that there will be a Parliamentary intergroup, which will monitor the implementation of programmes and resources? Is there a clearer and clearer proposal than that? Show some responsibility at last. Finally, you're getting a little honest. Look. Indeed, we are all finally judged by the Greek people. And it is obvious that after the failure of the Tsipras government, but also the tragic results of the Mitsotakis Government, the demand for a new change gains a new dynamic in this place. And we are here, the Change Movement, the progressive partition with our proposal for the Green Social Convention to give answers, to give answers and solutions to these people who are struggling, who want to stay in their country and work in their country. We will not let these regions be abandoned, we will exercise tough control and pressure, but the main thing is that the conditions are now being shaped to reclaim a leading role and to do this big, progressive, new change that the place needs after so many years of austerity, monuments, disasters and failures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Now Mr. Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece for his own dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u81	And in his protology and in his denology Mr. Mitsotakis along with his tritology, he didn't light us up much. But you too, Mr. Tsipras, "my same Pantelaki, my same Pantellis." A little gluttony again, speech intensity, a little populism, a little past, a little hypocrisy, rather more hypocrisy from both of you, to throw the ball of responsibilities to the other, to show the tree, but to hide the forest and so burn the forest. Even so, the debate was useful, precisely because the Greek people, now, can draw conclusions on the superficial and completely hypocritical justification for the policy pursued by Mr Mitsotakis and his Government and the relevant ministers as a whole, the ultimate state that serves, but also on the superficial criticism and self-criticism, which Mr Tsipras said, the Accuracy Opposition, that is, and the other urban parties. That is why the JRC will continue to put matters as far as they can in fact in here and not in this way shallow, superficial, populous, as other urban parties do. As with fires, the pandemic, which is undergoing and inexhaustible, proves in the most tragic way the criminal policy, which puts the rights and needs of the people in the balance. And in the case of the pandemic - a mention made by the Prime Minister in his dentistry - it proved to be the criminal absence of any effective prevention and the degraded public health system of all of you. For the fires it is the extreme, unprecedented phenomena for the outbreak of pandemic, the unknown enemy, overcoming any state mechanism, any "final" state. Responsibilities don't grasp. Faced with the fair demands of the trade unions, the collective bodies for effective support of the public health system, protection measures at workplaces, in schools, in public transport, your answer is that they cost, that the economy is pressed, that nothing is free and that money is no excess. You say the same thing to natural disasters, such as now, where necessary measures and infrastructures for anti-nuclear, anti-military protection, earthquake shields are out of design because they are not returnable to capital. Instead, you re-accumulate individual responsibility. We live it with the pandemic, we live in every catastrophe where "run to save" is the main measure in managing a fire or flood. On top of the thousands of deaths of the pandemic and even more excluded from the health system of the “a disease” you found the opportunity to run your plans for the new ESS, to close hospitals and clinics by escalating the privatisation, commercialisation policy that brought us here. Have you gotten a hampari that we're not in the first wave, but deep in the fourth? Only to see the numbers, one understands. And that is why you have a responsibility, because once again, tourism has opened up with the protocols of the tourist groups. A characteristic example of Crete, one of the most popular tourist destinations, which "causing". Not a single measure to shield the public system has been announced, nor have you announced any protection in the workplace, in the means of transport, in the schools! Not even a sample! On the contrary, you insist on putting the blame on the people, playing a dirty game at his expense. The vaccine needs a right and a weapon of science, and you turn it into a means of division of workers, extortion, attack on labour rights, but also an opportunity for groups to increase their clientele and say what you want in here. In fact, you have the courage to invoke irrationality, which you yourself are supplying with your refluxes, the lack of vaccination campaign, the absence of complete information, information, the conversion of vaccine into a means of transaction, into a buy-out instrument, the lack of pharmacovigilance. The whole responsibility is yours. Ladies and gentlemen, in Evia, Attica, Elias, Messinia, Arcadia and elsewhere, not only became ashes, houses, property, but also your own fairy tale that capitalist development can go hand in hand with real popular needs, that the urban state can serve the interests of capital and those of the people at the same time. The extraordinary situations and successive disasters for the people, unfortunately, become normal in your system, which has the profit for its god rather than the protection of the life and property of the Greek people. This explains, for example, why while there are all possibilities for flooding, anti-nuclear, earthquake-projects, prevention measures, these projects are not considered eligible. It is characteristic of what the European Civil Protection Mechanism provides for, where, in order to prevent natural disasters, the only criterion is economic efficiency and any cost-benefit analysis - it continues - to assess the possible future direction of damage and to use this as a basis for considering whether it is worth reducing or preventing those damages or those. In other words, in the face of the catastrophes threatened by the people, the state each time calculates whether it is economically more cost-effective to prevent evil or to retrospectively bear the cost of damage. With your policy you consider the protection of human life to be a cost, so neither do you want nor can you protect it. That explains all this alalum, all this destruction, all that incapacity. That is why the state shows you naked when it comes to defending human life, people's properties, forests, the environment, it turns out to be poor when it has to compensate for disasters. On the contrary, it is fully equipped when it comes to dealing with the people and their claims. It is then fully equipped with a plan, instruments and infrastructure, Mr Chrysochide. It fills the breeze with water to fall pointlessly on children and women, struggling and emptying tanks and fire extinguishers to have them ready and adequate for the time of the fire they need. The state that you have created, is, of course, capable, and modern in the removal of working people's rights, proved capable and modern in taxation, violence, repression. We urge you to adopt the JRC's proposals, the proposals of the workers themselves, the residents who know much better than everyone what is needed and what needs to be done at their place. We call more broadly on the Greek people, the Greek youth to think courageously, to think decisively and to make its decisions so that the timeless crimes against the forest, the natural wealth, the lives of our fellow humans, their property, the labors of life are not overlooked. We will be here to control, claim, demand, together with the collective action of the Greek people and the Greek youth throughout the country. Thank you and I give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too, Mr. Koutsuba, for the gift he gave us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u83	But we could begin, Mr President, at 10 a.m., as you said at first, because we were here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u84	Deal, but that's not what happened with a weirdo. There was a coma. We have to understand each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u85	Let's see what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u86	All of this is in life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u87	It's not just the Prime Minister's case. Anyway, I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u88	Because Mr Koutsoubas spoke about a pandemic outrage properly, I would like to say that today we were conducting two hundred thirty tests here, one found positive and all the measures were taken. Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, has the floor for his own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Koutsubas is right. If we have a coma in being able to talk to the Greek Parliament, how can we erase the fires? Because this debate, at least, was announced on the 15th day of the month. The Prime Minister shouldn't have put the date at 16:00. He could put it at 18:00, at 19:00. The Prime Minister therefore considers that the debate in this House should be completed in five hours' time because it has a coma on the subject of fires which have been burning the country for fifteen days. I do not want to comment any more, but I do not want to go to the point, but I think that today the institution of the Greek Parliament has been discredited with the consent of all of us, Mr President. This is incomprehensible, which happened in an emergency, in a fire that burned down the country, where we had two dead, not to forget, not to say we had no dead. We had two dead, one with earthworks and another. So, at least, the Prime Minister should today transfer his appointment for two hours later. The party leaders can't talk and the Prime Minister will be gone after he caused the conversation. It could be better to close at 16 a.m. as it closes with the lockdown shops. As he decides about it, he decides about it. I don't know how you accepted it, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u90	The Prime Minister didn't decide. We've all decided. I announced it, we quadruple the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u91	Did anyone ask us? None of us were asked if we agree. Don't tell me we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u92	I said it at first in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u93	Oh, because you said so, we agreed. It's the logic of the majority. It is democratic logic, we decide and we order. Okay, I'm over it. But I don't know how the Prime Minister can do it every time when I talk and ask him to answer another person. He said the gentleman saw it, the gentleman saw it, while I asked him specific things. He does so every time Velopoulos asks and answers others. I don't get it. Today the Greek Prime Minister made excellent revelations and no one saw it in the Greek parliament. He pledged - he said - the country's Prime Minister to place a huge number of wind turbines. But he doesn't know where. It's incredible what the Prime Minister said. Read his statement to the Greek Parliament. The Members of the New Democracy have today made your countryside. You have come and left because the Prime Minister is here and only Mr Rusopoulos is left - you are here, Mr Minister, and two more - and you are here to applaud the Prime Minister and leave. I would like to say that their attitude is disrespectful not to the Presidents of the parties, but to the fires, to the fires and to the burning of the country. It is disrespectful that the neo-democratics and the other Members of the other parties do. I don't really understand it. I have no profession beyond my business. For me, this House is an obligation and a function. For some while their normal job, they don't even come in here or when they come, they come only to applaud their president. It's incomprehensible. Do you understand what the Prime Minister said today? Have you wondered what the Prime Minister said? She's committed to putting 200% more wind turbines in the country. He said so himself. He wants 200 percent more energy. So 200 percent more wind turbines. And he didn't tell anyone. He didn't tell us where he committed himself, who he committed himself, because he made a commitment where he's going to go, and he doesn't even know and got up and left. Okay, he didn't answer us despite the pressure of Mr. Varoufakis who has another view. Because Mr. Varoufakis is confusing the energy. Natural gas is ecological. That's it. Anyone who understands it understands it. We're not talking about fuel oil and oil. The extraction of natural gas is the ecological mining. And it is incomprehensible that some should prefer to put wind turbines with toxic waste, which have tons of cement, to get a wind turbines in, it takes a thousand tons of cement, and not choose gas. I don't get it. And because I'm talking to experts, I can produce all the investigations into what I'm saying. Because the Greek solution has a rule. When he speaks to the Greek Parliament, one cannot question it because it is documented, structured, organized, designed to prevent it from being false. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I saw Mr. Tsipras fighting with the Prime Minister. And I wanted to ask what Mr. Tsipras meant that he was being held by the Prime Minister, Tsouvalas and Kollouris. Isn't this gentleman's name a collage? Where does he keep him from? And instead of the Greek Prime Minister saying that because no one keeps me in agreement with the Greek Solution and I do a committee of inquiry, he has made carrots once again. He still didn't do a committee of inquiry. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So it is enough for SYRIZA to nurture the party of the New Democracy that this party of Constantine Karamanlis, the author, is the leader of the party. It's unbelievable what's going on. How can Members of the New Democracy tolerate SYRIZA from being beaten by SYRIZA and swinging their fingers for SYRIZA's choices failed as the New Democracy's electorate said and successful post-elections, and all of them having nothing to do with the New Democracy body? I don't get it. I don't understand. And say it raw. You are being swept through, swayed, well to suffer, since the state is finally built on non-neo-democratics and executives. There's no other way. You guys have a good time. Now understand the lies they say inside the House. Aren't they ashamed to lie? I apologise, but I call it that raw: is the Prime Minister not ashamed to lie? Here I have the dvd of Mr. Dendia who told a foreign television station that we are not doing gas mining. The Prime Minister did not answer me if he was asked by Mr. Dendia himself to say so. I shall put it in the Minutes and Mr Spaniard's statements are also so that the Greek Prime Minister will not lie again. And I don't call him a liar. Because I'm, at least, dominating my characterizations and personal attacks. The video is here and I read the Spanish statement: "We were called out to extinguish a fire on our own without planes, without helicopters, without terrestrial fire-fighting in many cases, testifying to countless our fellow citizens that the less terrestrial means had a command of not being extinguished"! Do you understand? I stop here not reading it all. So here, or Mr. Spaniard is a fool and you poorly chose him for a peripheral, commonly stupid, I don't believe it, or he's lying again badly, you chose him. Either way, you've chosen him badly. And you've been cleared and a D.A. doesn't interfere. That he corrected it later was certain he'd fix it. I wasn't expecting anything from one who faints in battle. When Central Greece and Evia were burning and Mr Spanos was elsewhere. I'm telling you, that's not how we're being believed. 55% of the citizens do not vote. And I'll tell you rawly, they're rightly indignant and they don't vote. We therefore beg that this 55% of Greeks drop a slap in the next elections to the systemist parties. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] 55% of the Greeks, who were disappointed, are asking to support other alternatives, other proposals. And I don't mean to just vote Greek in any way. I don't have that kind of arrogance and arrogantness. Let smaller parties vote to send a message that no more lies, hypocrisy, no more half truth in here. And my Prime Minister answered about the planes. But, Mr President-in-Office, the problem is not that we are well aware of the subject. That's what the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister said that Mr Velopoulos was well aware of the object of the airplanes. That's not a problem. Anyone who reads, learns. Whoever's looking and investigating, he knows. Anyone with a plan is planning. This is the Greek solution. The problem is that advisers of the Prime Minister, his officials from other parties don't know and think they know. On 31 July 2018 - SYRIZA is not here, I wanted Mr. Tsipras to ask - the Japanese newspaper 'NIKEI' was talking about the supply of aircraft not Canander, amphibious fire extinguishers from Japan - 'SHINMAYWA', which is what is called Japanese - the US - 2. They're firearms much better than Canander, but weird as the New Democracy took over the story after an eight-month period. So we can get fire extinguishers. Why do you know what an excuse is? That Cananders don't have a production line and that we need to make a great supply of Canander and we need to think with others together. But the Japanese give us five and six and seven. So what keeps us and we don't buy from there, and we just have to get from Canada? So not only do we know well, but we know much better than many within the New Democracy Party, dirty toys, played by supplies. And I stop here, and if Mr. Chardalias wants me to give him the information, because they spoke to the Ministry officials and said that the process is beginning and he got frozen all of a sudden. I spoke to the Japanese - I will not say who - who is involved with the company. The problem with Greece you know what it is that we are in NATO and we cannot take any other aircraft outside NATO. It would be the first time Japan was selling aircraft. I know that, Mr. Chardalia. It's a different matter. You could rent more firearms, Mr. Chardale. You rented a few. That was the problem. Because you know better than me that forty years of aircraft can't fly like a new one. No matter what Chardalias and Chrysochoidis do. And mandarins to put in the back, he's not gonna fly the plane, guys. I'm telling him the Prime Minister, and I'm right. Would it drive a 30-year-old car with a hundred miles? And he told me he didn't. So how will the hero pilot fly with thirty-five or forty? years of aircraft? The Pedgetelles are forty-two-year-old planes. And because we're swinging the finger on the gentlemen and we're all swinging their fingers, I told the Prime Minister a simple sentence. All parties should sit together from a representative to propose things. And we didn't come to fight anyone. Because this is where SYRIZA and New Democracy came in today, the two big parties and made a communication game to play in the channels at night. Fighting, confronted, colluded, they'll say tonight in the news reports. Do you know why SYRIZA and New Democracy colluded today? For who did the least harm in the country, and that's what bothers me. We will fight for the best in Greece, we will fight for the best in Greece and for the Greeks. That's our difference. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I have heard ironic comments about '112'. They fought about who did "112". Christ and God bless you! Says one of us, we planned it, you guys did it. No, he says the other guy, you forgot, we did it better. In the end, we will all need in here, to say it elegantly, '166' to get us in a semi-responsive situation. I mean, it's unbelievable what's going on here, I don't understand it. I challenged the Prime Minister and he didn't answer me again. Do you know when they published it in Samos? Listen here, because fraud is done anyway, but political fraud is revealed. On 20 August 2021. I'll submit it to the Minutes. When did the Prime Minister ask us to have today's conversation? On the 15th. They took it for granted that the Samians weren't compensated and took off the FEK. Here, I leave it here in the Minutes. This is the state of New Democracy! [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] I'm closing in here because I don't have time, although I wanted to do seminars on wind turbines. We are presenting our proposals as a party, the feasibility study. They are all specific, structured proposals and we put them here in the Minutes of the House. They are proposals for a national anti-nuclear protection plan. It's about sixty-five pages and I'll put it in the Minutes. It is a step forward - step by step what we need to do. That means a serious party. I leave my suggestions written to the government, to see them, to check them, to help them, to make it with my buffet to see what seriousness it means. Here, then, the Greek Solution once again puts forward proposals. We have not come here to make opposition, nor to rally our party voters just to make a game of communication. We came to help the country, we came to help Greece, we came and we will stay to help the country, Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Here we have the feasibility study to regain investments for wind parks, because they are polluting. I'll testify to her in the Minutes, because only with evidence we're talking about. I'm closing up with something I heard from the Prime Minister. He can't tell so many half-truths. I've never seen a political leader, Prime Minister of the country, telling so many half-truths! What did he say to us, like many New Democracy officials? He told us that the invasives in the ICU are more than the vaccinated. That's what he told us. I have here Mr Scortso's statement from Facebook and I read it: 'Some, judging only the absolute numbers, would say that the vaccine is not effective, because the vaccinated ones, which were invaded, are more than the invaders'. He's here. Who should I believe? No, don't do me like that, because I could say more. I won't stay here, but I'll say one thing. It's undemocratic to tell the other "pay your self test" and because he doesn't have to pay it, go out to your Minister, Mr. Comrade, and call him a slut. Who? The person who paid insurance contributions thirty years, who went bankrupt by the country, who went bankrupt by himself, who cut his wages and pensions, now that he can't pay for it to be called a slut! It's you who, with the money of the Greek people, make politics with borrowers mostly. Go on, because that's as far as the hybris is against the Greeks! Sometime we'll get serious. The hybris is coming against Greece and the Greeks! Stop splitting!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u94	We are now going to Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, who will conclude today's debate. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. In my prototype I said that this debate as it is structured does not honour the problem facing people out there, whether they are firefighters or residents. Unfortunately, the development of this debate has made the whole situation even worse. Not only do we have a series of monologues, but you see that the Prime Minister did his trilogy before all the others, except Mr. Tsipras, do our denology. Mr President, I understand that we had agreed a number of hours that a number of timetables would be observed. To the Prime Minister you had given forty minutes, spoke for fifty-five minutes, and then renounces the rest that they do not hold the time. One of the prisoners. Secondly, I think it is time that you, as President of the House - I tell you as a Member of Parliament who voted for you as well - impose the absolute observance of the time limits with me. Close the microphones, as is done in the European Parliament. We can't agree on something and then we can't. I don't think you're gonna argue with that. It's not authoritarian at all. It's a matter of taking the time so that the procedures don't end properly. Thirdly, Mr Mitsotakis was right to say to Mr Tsipras that it is not possible to answer that he would have given it to be released before he heard what Mr Mitsotakis said. But the same goes for Mr. Mitsotakis. You see, she's tritology before the secondarys. Anyway, I think we should think again and the Bureau should hold a special meeting on how to reshape these debates. I say that without a completely opposition trend. I now come to what the Prime Minister said, although I do not know whether he will ever hear my answers. It is very interesting, despite the fact that he honored me in answering some things, what did not respond to his denology. What he didn't answer is perhaps more interesting than what he said. First, if you remember, I made a specific complaint. I said that the tree trees, which are supposed to grow very quickly, are genetic technology 'BAYER - MONSANTO'. He didn't answer that, he didn't deny it. I hope I'm wrong, but when the Prime Minister gets a specific complaint, he doesn't dare tell me that I'm wrong, actually confirms it. If you read Mr Hatzidakis' press release of 30 November 2020, it speaks of 310 million people going to reafforestate five hundred thousand acres. The Prime Minister spoke of very limited reafforestation. Five hundred thousand acres, says, thirty million certified trees. This is Mr. Hatzidakis' announcement. Ask, please, you of the government, your colleague, what it means to certified trees. I'll tell you what it means. 'BAYER - MONSANTO', that means. It means the beginning of the end of forests and their replacement for plantations. I wish I was wrong! But tell me I'm wrong. Something else Mr. Mitsotakis didn't answer. If you remember, I challenged him to do it like Merkel. Like Mrs Merkel after the great disaster in Japan, in Fukushima, she had completely changed the door and made her announcement to Butestag, in the federal parliament, saying that after what happened in Japan, a nuclear end in that country, and it was a personal bet, I invited Mr Mitsotakis to say the same thing, but on mining. It cannot be invoked by climate change, it cannot have been this disaster, which has taken place this year and at the same time does not respond to my challenge of getting out and saying that it was wrong to ratify mining contracts, we will not mine anything. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] He didn't. He didn't answer it, to tell me I'm wrong. Nothing, in the duke and this! Of the two which he replied, one will allow me, Mr President, to say that it was funny. When I referred to the amendment, which he submits and resents and resents the Mera25, that when a forest is burned, for thirty years, to ban a change of use, did you hear what your Prime Minister said? Did you hear that? It's outrageous! Do you realize that you have a conspiracy as Prime Minister? He said, we won't go through this, because if we pass this, then the economists will burn the forests to prevent wind turbines from being placed. If that's not the end of conspiracy, I don't know what it is! Do we live or live in a country where we know very well that the burnt-ups have been built and the fact that they can be built and built for decades in burnt buildings has been an incentive for some to burn forests? But incentives to ecologists to burn forests, the amendment of Mera25, which forbids the change of land use of the burned, only Mr. Mitsotakis' imagination could make it up, unless it is one of his writers who wrote it. So, Mr. Mitsotakis, fire him or fire her. I now come to the question of wind turbines. We have a very important debate here. Merra25 is absolutely in favour of wind turbines, as long as it's not on land. Mr. Mitsotakis said that sea wind turbines are not enough. He's making a very big mistake. Here we'll have a chance, you'll bring in, he says, a climate law. We'll put them down. But we're clear. The wind's power in the center of the Aegean, not only is sufficient on the basis of densely populated and floating marine wind turbines to meet all the needs of Greece, but it is more than enough, could meet the needs of the creation of a green hydrogen, as we have submitted since last year to the PPC in the context of the proposal of Mer25 for the "green" industrial revolution. It's funny to say we need land wind turbines. When we see Athens from above, we see rooftops which could easily be photovoltaic in combination with seaboats and plunged wind turbines. There would be no reason for new huge wind turbines in mountain peaks and islands. The only reason these are because they are of interest to certain interest to friends who are close to the "Metsotakis S.A.". Mr Mitsotakis said that 'we find a common place with Mera25'. I would very much like us to have found a common place, but unfortunately there is no possibility of such a common place. You hand over the forests to the contractors, to each TERNA and to every NAKOR, to every MONSANTO, as I said before. We demand biodiversity supervised by citizens' communities who refuse to become slaves of TERNA and AKTOR, of the donor oligarchs. Mr President, the Prime Minister has also made a reference to the issues relating to vaccination and pandemic and said that opposition has not exactly put back on the subject of vaccination. I hope he doesn't talk about Mera25. From the first moment on, we have stated clearly in favour of vaccination. We made the panoramic vaccine. We also had internal conflicts on this issue. It is a clear line of our party that the vaccine is a public asset of maximum value. We're the party we've done everything we can to support the vaccination. And if we're criticising you, we're criticising you because you haven't supported him enough. You were talking about over a thousand vaccine centers. We didn't see them. We wanted more than we saw. In fact, Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of the campaign through the Pecha list - the sinful Pecha list - for informing the public. What public information? You didn't do the vaccine case. The campaign was before the vaccine. We're not against the campaign. The campaign had to be carried out before the vaccine was observed. We are against giving even a euro to the channels of corruption. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] They have a constitutional obligation to inform the world, but do not interfere with the issue of money for the channels at the moment. Where's the vaccine campaign with specific statistics? Where is the attempt to help with vaccination through the persuasion and the science of statistics? I'll give you an example. We heard it from Mr. Velopoulos before. They show up, he says, a lot of people vaccinated in the ICUs. I'll tell you fatter. When we have succeeded in having a very large proportion of vaccinated, the vast majority of those in the ICM will be vaccinated and so they must be. It's the same as the safety belts. What did we always say? You remember how many years it took us to convince the Greeks and Greek women to use safety belts and the helmet motorcycles. Yes, but when everyone is convinced and using the safety belts and the helmet, eventually the ones, who are killed and in hospitals and in the CSD will be the ones wearing a safety belt. It doesn't mean the safety-belt doesn't work. But did you say that anywhere? Did you make a campaign to prepare the world for the vaccine in this way? No, nothing, because you're going to the suppression, Mr. Chrysochoid. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are going directly to the threats. What's the matter? We have a world out there that's hesitant against the vaccine. We, myself, have the party, we say, 'Do it. It doesn't matter what it is, do it. Save yourself, save your neighbor." On the other hand, we must treat him as a citizen with rights. We can't start threatening him, treating him like he's a third-class person, like he's an idiot, like he doesn't know what's going on with him. He needs respect and evidence. This needs, not mandatory, apart from certain specific professions, such as hospitals, as in nursing homes. We said from the beginning that the battle against the coronary is complicated. We'll have to wear masks, we'll have to run a test and we'll have to get the vaccinated. You cannot tell the vaccinated "you will never have to run a test again and if you do, you will have to pay out of your pocket". That's why we've been talking about a public network of mass tests since the first moment of the pandemic. I close, Mr President, by saying that we have a government today which was elected on the basis of a narrative: the ultimate state, excellence, efficiency and security. Aren't these the basics you suggested and which you promised the Greek people? These are all ruins. More state-of-the-art? What excellence? What effectiveness? What security? Mr. Chrysochoid, since you're here, he's not the prime Prime Minister, so I'm talking to you. We didn't have firefighters. We didn't have doctors. We didn't have any cops. You hired police officers, you didn't hire firefighters, you didn't hire nurses and doctors. We're in a situation right now, it's like the house that burns down needs an alarm. Someone who doesn't know what's going on would think seeing what you're doing. And after you're out of excellence, efficiency, and you made people feel unsafe, scared, invest in fear. We in your fear contrast the moderate analysis of how the "Metsotakis S.A." operates on behalf of the national and supranational pimps, our radical plan for the "green" industrial revolution and our support to the movements, the "green" movement, which is born today through the ashes of the forests, the new trade union movement, the new feminist movement. But above all it is important, Mr President, for us here, to think again about how we are conducting our discussions and our dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u96	And we thank Mr. Varoufakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda. Before we solve the meeting, I'd like to make some announcements. First, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Education and Religious Affairs and the Environment and Energy submitted a draft law on 19-8-2021: ‘Preparation of the Amendment Protocol to the Agreement on the Bilateral Development Assistance Cooperation Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Albania, signed in Athens on 20 December 2001’. Secondly, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and Justice, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Development and Investment, tabled a draft law on 19-8-2021: ‘Presenting the Agreement on the termination of the bilateral Investment Agreements between the Member States of the European Union’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. In addition, the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food Policy, Tourism and State Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, have tabled a draft law on 23.8.2021: ‘Statement: (a) of 5.8.2021 Act of 5.8.2021 of the Legislative Area of the Legislative Area of Fire’ (August 2021) and (b) of 13.8.2021 of the Legislative Area of Independent Measures for the effective protection and rapid restoration of the natural environment, direct support for fires affected by the fires of July/August 2021 and related provisions’ (April 143). It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. These legislative acts are referred to co-legislative standing committees. Tomorrow, the debate will take place in the Chamber. We are giving the plenary session, because there are many committees, so that they can meet here of course. The next Tuesday, these two sanctions will come for a vote in plenary. Finally, the Ministers for Migration and Asylum, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, State, as well as Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs submitted today, August 28, 2021, a draft law: "Reform of deportation procedures and return procedures for citizens of third countries, attracting investors and digital nodes, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection and other provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection". This bill is also referred to the relevant Standing Committee. It will be discussed on Friday in the committee responsible and this will come to plenary next week. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Christos Bukoros is calling for a short-day absence from Friday 20 August 2021 until Friday 27 August 2021, for personal reasons abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u97	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-25-S1-commons.u98	With the consent of the House, 17.06. the sitting is closed next Tuesday 31 August 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
