ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Following an amendment agreement from 24-6 2016 to the Concession Convention entitled ‘Concess of Concession on the use and exploitation of certain countries and assets in the Port of Piraeus’ between the Greek State and the Port Authority of Piraeus S.A.’. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that four questions will be discussed. I would also like to ask the Commissioner if he is going to be able to answer this question in writing. Question No 1083/23-9-2021 by Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Culture, No. Question No 108/24-9-2021 by Mr Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for Civil Protection, or Question No 1095/27-9-2021 by Mr Nicholas Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, or Question No 108, by Mr Anastassios Papoutsis (H-0228/93) Subject: Human rights violations in the former Yugoslavia Mr Karathanasopoulos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. Report by Mr Vassiliou, Minister for Health, on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles. The first two questions will be discussed at the same time because they are the same subject, while maintaining the number of Members. It is the second question with number 1079/20-9-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friends to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Understood injustice against the candidates who will be invited to study in the Latin class in the pan-Hellenic exams 2022, while the fourth one under number 1094/27-9-2021 is the first question of Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Ioannis Delis, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The equal treatment of graduates of the Human Rights Group of the Schools 2019-2020 and 2021-2022 in the universal exams". They will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time in application of paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. We're starting with Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, the climate in schools is heavy right now. The pandemic is spreading. One in three cases the EOY announces is from children and adolescents and there are no measures in schools. I mean the dilution of the student population, the rapid test being done under the responsibility of the EGE. Those aren't there. At the same time, we have the punishing evaluation that the Ministry promotes. It upsets the educational community, creates a burden on education. 92% of teachers voted against this measure that upsets education and creates multi-speed education. And as if not all of this were enough, we also have the sloppy ones, the feasibility on the basis of which you're trying to change the way in which you enter universities, kicking kids out of there. This year with new problems that have to do with the question of teaching sociology. You've taken this class off, and you've taken Latin. You've put six hours Latin in the third grade and two hours in the second grade. The children who have not learned Latin are forced to give Latin to enter the humanitarian schools. That is, in our view, a twofold problem. First - first of all, it runs counter to the principle of equal treatment, as these candidates will be considered in a demanding lesson, such as Latin, which takes eight hours of systematic teaching, as you put it for two years when their colleagues have learned it from last year. And secondly, it is Article 16 of the Constitution, equality: the fundamental right for citizens to receive free education. Now what do you think? The kids who didn't teach Latin at school to go to school to find out. There was a simple solution. To give tests, just like it used to be. To give Latin or sociology. To choose the children. And enter the universities who would achieve these lessons. It had happened in the previous change. Introductory examinations want to be an extension of school teaching. You're the one who's holding the tutorial with the bogeyman. That's what you're doing now. We must be aware that in the past, which has changed to the examination system, the candidates have given Latin rather than sociology. That choice was right. Now that the system changes, they must be able to give sociology and not Latin. Mr President, I shall end. The issue is not so important, one could say, because it concerns a small number of children. But also a child to be concerned, a child to be challenged, this is a major issue because it is an issue of educational and social exclusion in education. That is why we ask for explanations about what you will do so that the children who are graduates and who participated in the pan-Hellenic examinations last year can be examined in the Sociology course that has been taught and not in the Latin ones that have not been taught. The heavy climate in education is unfortunately also borne by what happened yesterday in Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. Fascist gangs with schools in Stavroupolis attacked students. We're waiting for a convict from the Ministry. I'll say it again. A conviction, a meter. Let's see exactly what happened. We are waiting for an answer to be given if an administrative inquiry has been carried out on how to break into the personal data of the infants, which Mr Bogdanos has made known in a provocative way and which Mr Bogdanos has been undone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u3	On the same subject, Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, topical and urgent debate must also be reflected. At the moment that we're talking about Stavroup's PSA, there are new attacks of fascist groups on the gathered students and students. I think it is time for the Ministry and the government to take a stand and, above all, take responsibility for it. This thing can't go on. As far as the question is concerned, I think we all agree that all reasonable people are not to be regarded as an examination system without all the candidates being treated equally. It's the main thing. Most of all. That is what we are discussing today with our question. That is exactly what we put forward. This year, therefore, candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations from the direction of humanitarian studies were examined in the well-known courses of the New Greek Language and Literature, the Ancient Greeks, the History and Sociology. According to the law passed by the government last June, L.4692 on the upgrading of the school - anyway, euphemism - since this year's school year the lesson in sociology has been replaced by Latin. So this lesson will be given to the pan-Hellenic examinations that will take place in June or July 2022, at the end of the school year, that is. In this law, however, no mention is made of the fact that this replacement will apply to the current graduates or the older ones who have been examined in the Sociology course and who wish to take part in the examinations, as they of course have this right. If there is no regulation and what the law says in it creates a serious problem for the candidates in previous years, as they will go into a course that has not been taught at all, the Latin class. There is therefore a serious question of equal treatment. It's very serious and self-evident. Of course, there is a question for the school itself, its educational role and the preparation of candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations. In order to provide the opportunities, i.e. equal opportunities, of equal opportunities, for education. We're asking you now. You have two options. Will you receive, will you vote, will you make transitional arrangements so that those candidates who had chosen sociology in previous years can continue to carry on with the pan-Hellenic examinations with sociology? If you insist on your arrangements for Latin, what measures will you take to prepare these children, of course without any exit, but with care of the state, for the newly examined Latin material? We expect to hear you, as the children themselves expect to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u5	Madam Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is indeed timeliness other than the question. Because I understand that my fellow Members are focusing mainly on the news and others are saying it mainly for reasons of political necessity and not feasibility, I will also speak briefly about the measures we have taken for the pandemic and evaluation - Mr Philis said so - as well as the occupations. I shall start with the second point you have raised. The Ministry unequivocally condemns any attempt to stop courses. There is no doubt about that. I think it is well known and I repeat it from the Step of the House. As far as pandemic is concerned, Minister, Mr Philly, pandemic is indeed a matter that concerns our Government very much. I am sure you are following the measures we have taken. It's the strictest. Let the Minister hear too, Mr. Plearis. I'm sure you're following the experts' suggestions. These are the strictest measures taken at European level, but possibly at global level. There is no Greek originality of an increased examination either by rapid or by self test. They're the instructions that medical science gives. We make it almost daily for close contacts of cases and certainly much more increased than other countries, without calculating the costs of the Greek state. I would also like to say that the cases that have so far been presented in school units with the examination carried out either by self or by rapid test are less than those observed in the month of August when children were running without measures and, of course, the check was much less limited. As far as the evaluation is concerned, I will only say one word. It's not punishing. The assessment of those judged to be unsatisfactory only results in training and nothing else. So, on this subject, which is serious and important, I will say, ladies and gentlemen, that every year before the Greek examinations begin, time counts for the candidates and is a period of quite stressful time when both students and students and graduates of the past few years must manage the pressure, stress and fear of failure and, of course, the parents and guardians of the past few years, as well as the wider family. For some of the children things are easier because they are not stressful, but for other children, the situation is more difficult to manage and often they cannot concentrate and lose their goals. So High School III is a demanding year, and needs mental strength, patience, perseverance and proper guidance. That is why our primary concern is to take a series of substantial measures, actively, to support as much as possible and to facilitate the candidates and, above all, to support them emotionally. So, then, our Ministry for the Year that passed provided guidance on the learning and psychosocial adjustment of candidates in return for the difficult conditions of the pandemic. In addition, he shared and supported the candidates and their families with the psychological support lines for the pan-Hellenic exams that operated in all the regional training offices of the country. Through these lines the candidates and their parents received information, answers, advice from experts to manage the critical period of the pan-Hellenics. At the same time, we also reduced the matter examined for the introduction to higher education by a proportional reduction in all the universally tested courses in the 3rd class of the country's general and professional high schools, in line with the progress made in teaching the matter until the date of universal suspension of the life of the schools. Now I will come to what Mr. Friend called "slapping" but for us it is a very methodical and imperative management, political and also educational. The about eighty thousand graduates of the general high school of the year that passed us in the pan-Hellenic examinations of June were examined in sociology, which by the decision of the SYRIZA - ANEL government replaced Latin for a two-year period. In the 1922 exams, those who test their luck will be re-examined in Latin. The EPA, which is the scientific arm of our Ministry, recommended in 1920 the new timetables based on Act 28 on 5-6-20 of the Board of Directors. Thus, the current timetables of the General High School were redefined by Law 4692/20 and were specified by the relevant Ministerial Decision signed by my predecessor, Sophia Zacharaki, published on 15-6-20 in the FEK and in accordance with Article 7 of Law 4692 the candidates of the Humanities Guidance Group are necessarily examined in the New Greek Language and Literature, Ancient Greek, History and Latin. According to the fifth chapter with the transitional and repealed provisions of Part One, and in particular Article 61(3) thereof, it is stated that ‘from the school year '21-22 candidates for the introduction to higher education of the Humanities Guidance Group shall be considered in the courses referred to in paragraph 7 of Law 4692/20 and there are no further transitional provisions on the existing subject’. In this political decision the leadership of the HR was guided by a number of pedagogical reasons, as the HR pointed out. There are many essential reasons for this decision and do not exclusively relate to the usefulness of the lesson chosen in schools, but are linked to the general need to upgrade the classic letters. The new timetables were the result of conscious effort and a turn to the classic letters for classical education in terms that always place the student at the centre. The programme of study by means of this attempted shift emphasises the culture of creativity, imagination, values of democracy and equality, the concepts of citizens and the state, sustainability, solidarity, empathy, and the acceptance of diversity and the development of European consciousness by deep knowledge of European history and culture and strengthens the language, not only as a basic means of communication between people, but also as a background for the acquisition of skills, values and attitudes. Latin together with Ancient Greeks are the basis of European culture and through them the student and the student are given a comprehensive understanding of the two languages that have interacted with the European letters. However, by recognizing the value of the subjects in social sciences - I have answered to a relevant question - it extends the class of social and political education to the third grade by one hour, in order to teach a total of three hours. I am no longer insisting on this, so that I do not take more time than I do. I would like to concentrate - to end - on your concerns about the possibility of examining the sociology class instead of the Latin ones in the pan-Hellenic exams of 1922 for the graduates of previous years. The fact is, last time in the '20s that changed the system the candidates had been categorised to the graduates of older years who were examined with the previous system and to those with the new system, with many parents and students, complaining that they were wronged in the distribution of posts at the HEIs. That is not what we want, and I suppose you don't want it to be repeated. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, new legislative provisions cannot be taken to enable graduates to look at sociology which has already been taught because this decision, Mr Phile - I will reverse your argument - would create two-speed candidates in the examination because it is very likely that there will be a question of equality in access to higher education, since candidates will be considered in different courses with a different theme. It means that the subjects in one of the two courses can be judged easier than the other course and it may seem that the test is more favourable to some candidates than others. For reasons of equal treatment, therefore, candidates and graduates should also be considered in Latin. After all, a provision was passed two years ago and it is something that was well known. The state's obligation is to prepare candidate students and students for the courses in question, is to extend school teaching, as Mr. Philis said. And I would remind you - by ending - that many graduates have been examined over the years on many and heterogeneous issues of admission to universities and it is not something that is happening for the first time. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u8	I was expecting an explicit and unambiguous complaint about the fascist raid in Stavroupolis. They came out of school with cramped drums, with the blessings of the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn announced on the subject. I have heard a general position from the Minister that he condemns any interruption in a course. Is that what happened in Stavroupoli? A lesson break? Didn't he see pictures? He didn't see in the media, TVs, etc. What happened? Don't you dare condemn a move made with the blessings of the Golden Dawn, a trabucism, which is currently under way, as we have just heard from Mr. Delis? So you're so attached to the far-right chariot for the votes? Is that your policy? Do you refuse to say anything about Bogdan? Do you refuse to take the legal measures to see how the evidence of the infants was leaked and how Bogdan took advantage of them? I don't understand. What exactly do you ensure? Democracy at school is a primary element and unfortunately you do nothing. Let the trumpets and the Golden Dawn perish. Shame, shame, shame! About, now, with the blessings you said about the pandemic. Parents listen. They know what happened last year or rather what didn't happen, what people took with Cisco's story and other issues. So don't tell us now about psychotic support. You've ridiculed the kids. All psychiatrists, pediatricians and psychologists know how children were visited with various issues of necessary mental support. With the learning gaps, you're ruining the children now that schools are turning into exam centers this year. Instead of focusing on class, we have emphasis on exams. About the Latin issue now. You told us that what was done in previous years, Latin or sociology, will not be implemented this year, depending on which lesson children have been taught at school, in order not to categorise children and for reasons of equal treatment. Listen to something, from different packages, they give children tests to different lessons and they go to the same schools. You know that? Isn't there a question of categorisation? Isn't there a lot of gear? So leave the cheap excuses that have no basis at all. You want to abolish social reflection and democratic education classes at school. That's what you're doing. You have effectively abolished them in I, II and III of high school and there is an international impact on this action. The Association of British Sociologists sent a letter to you telling you in the pandemic that there is a need for the child to understand society, to understand the development of the problems of the great, you have chosen to abolish the lessons of society's understanding. That's what you're doing. This school you want, a punishment school, an examination centre, a cheap school. That's what you're doing. When you take out the democratic social education from schools, what message do you send to the golden people? Who are you bowing to with this move of yours? What message are you sending? Of course, you have Latin, but alternatively, a lesson that can choose the child and give the exams. But I repeat, alternatively, not six hours Latin in the third grade and two in the second grade, eight hours. And instead of the eight hours a child taught today about Latin to give tests, what does the other child do? You're telling him to go to school? Is that equality? Isn't that a categorization? It's a downgrade of public school. I'm sorry. Cover the Golden Dawn, throw Sociology from education and separate children the way you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u10	Madam Minister, we are not talking about a simple break in Stavroupolis right now. Right now, we're telling you again, we're not talking about episodes. We're talking about attacks on fascist groups against students and students. And the government, your ministry - choose who he will be - take a stand. We'll wait in your dentistry, too. Mr President, it is well known that every few minutes and a little all the governments are making changes to the pan-Hellenic examinations and are usually paid for by the children who are staying out of their minds. Every two, three years we have changes. Let me remind you that Latin class was there. SYRIZA came in, took it out after he accused it and replaced it with sociology. We are not going to enter this barren controversy between courses, because we think both are equally useful. And that's why. Latin will help you better understand societies, society at that time, social and political conditions. This, however, reminds us of sociology and immediately shows us how useful the class of sociology is. Instead of opposing these two lessons, they can function both in the school program. As for the FPI, the Institute for Education Policy, depending on what governments are ordering is also serving this. It's another time that Latin is gone, another time sociology is gone. We will reintroduce a proposal that we have made and then to end this barren confrontation. Both courses can be integrated into the pan-ellanic examinations, depending, of course, on the department or the school chosen by the student. But sociology is going to be needed, elsewhere it's going to take Latin. It was a proposal that we made last year at the Ministry of Education, but unfortunately it was not accepted. We are reintroducing it, and we think it is a fair proposal. Madam Secretary, let's just say it. The government has the children of previous years to study in a course in Latin, which has not been taught. How can this be done? Where did that sound? Should we talk about the disparity of access? I think it's a little bit what we're going to say. Should we talk about strengthening discrimination in this way? So you're putting these two, three years old children who hadn't been taught Latin to go to the trouble and to the costs within five, six months to learn a two-year-old curriculum to go to give all-Greek examinations because you refuse to do a transitional arrangement? Three were your basic arguments. We think that they cannot stand criticism, not to say that some of them are provocative too. As you say what you say would be a question of whether the transitional arrangement was a question of equal treatment. Just the opposite. No courses are being examined, Minister. Children are being examined, students are being examined. So if a student has not learned a lesson, how can it be considered in it? I can't understand it, I can't. As for the obligation of the state that you said you had to prepare children for the universal courses in question, come on. It is your government - not that the previous one did a lot of work for it - that a lot of special courses do not teach them at the public school and at the same time they are being examined in the pan-Hellenic exams. You want me to talk to you about the plan, about the music? Don't go any further. As for the fact that 'the law has been passed for two years and so they knew it', what will that say? What's that about students, these kids? That they should change their choices and suddenly where they were preparing for previous years to go in one direction, did they have to change it? None of this is true. The point is, thousands of children are struggling, afflicting, spending. We will say this again: you must have an obligation on these children to go ahead with a fair transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u11	Come on, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u12	Finally, we want to bring it back - and I end - and the proposal that we are saying again - and in the previous government we have called it and rejected it - to guarantee the rating on certain courses, which was already in existence and was abolished by the well-known Arseni law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u13	Don't put all the education issues on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u14	This proposal brings two advantages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u15	That's another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, it is relevant to the question. Firstly, it ensures to a large extent that the candidate is able to enter the school of his first preference - and that is not a little, believe me - and, secondly, it is a form of protection and justice with regard to such regulations that the governments are constantly bringing. The point, the essence is that your policy is causing you reactions. It feeds racing mobilizations to teachers, parents and students.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u17	Madam Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I'll say two words about the occupations, since the denology had this report. I would particularly like to mention Mr Philly, considering that I have unequivocally condemned, perhaps not the way you would like me to use the words that you would like me to use. I didn't characterize my own statement. I'm extremely prosperous as a lawyer, and I know who I'm talking to, because I don't want to take a stand on things I don't know from inside. I was unambiguous and I suppose your charge of colluding with Golden Dawn or with some others has not been accepted by me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u19	There's a Golden Dawn announcement. Didn't you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u20	There's no conspiracy for me. I'm sure you didn't say that about me. If I'm wrong, fix me and I'll come back. I have explained clearly why the Minister and our ministry decided to make this provision. Following recommendations from the EPA, he knows that children who have been prepared for two years should be considered on an equal footing. I do not have to come back, because I will agree, Mr Delis, that this is a sensitive issue. The kids are nervous. Parents and families are waiting. If we insist more, I think we create more stress. You both said that it was also time for this parliamentary procedure to take place. I will therefore say to you - due to the fact that one and a half years ago, with unfavourable conditions in the middle of a pandemic crisis with Mr. Friend, to blame us without any evidence that we came to the life of an educational process, without having taken the appropriate measures, forgetting that last year, after Easter, which we again operated through a life, the operation of public health schools was not a burden, but rather, the self-testing which was first tested in schools was a driver for the other professional and scientific classes, and because you say no good reason, you simply blamed us - and the following: we had actions that shielded the new generation and the country and we faced the challenges in the unprecedented conditions of the global health crisis. We gave children, regardless of their economic potential and origin, equal opportunities and supplies. We have implemented the distance education that has been forced and confiscated by health conditions - at some point and globally - and kept the education process alive and functional. We upgraded and regulated the public school, covering all levels of infantry, primary and secondary education. We modernized private education and private school. We have strengthened initial vocational education, training and lifelong learning. We've created six PSAI standards. We applied the parallel computer for our young people to have alternatives. Universal two-year-old pre-school education in kindergarten: nothing from your government, Mr. Friend on this subject. We successfully upgraded the modern school with renewed content and philosophy, introducing a hundred and twenty new curriculum programs, including skills workshops for which we have been awarded on the mandatory timetable and English language in kindergarten, for which we have also been commended. We organized modern standards and experimental schools, doubled them. We invested in human resources, teachers, trained them horizontally. We appointed eleven thousand seven hundred teachers, the first after twelve years, four and a half thousand last year, the first in the educational process in special schools. We implement school autonomy, strengthen support structures for educational work, evaluate and improve education staff. We're applying the theme bank. And, Mr. Philie, we're doing a strengthening teaching for all the universally tested courses and the project that you mentioned both in music and in foreign languages in school units. And we urge and convince ourselves with arguments - because in the case of vaccination I have not heard anything here, and in general I think that you should also contribute me, on a single basis, with arguments - to appeal to teachers, to the minimum, but a significant number of us who have not been vaccinated to do so. We call on parents to move on with the vaccination of children from twelve years of age and in consultation with doctors. We have already done an online seminar with the information of Mrs Theodoridou and Mrs Papaevangelou, who is at the disposal of all and answered the questions of a thousand parents. We have already taken the initiative to cooperate with two new updates with the municipalities and school units. I think that in all these issues and policies that go beyond our controversy, our different starting points, fair, well-known, perhaps even unwitting, but for this particular matter I think we should have a fruitful and constructive dialogue, essential, not to be sterile and persuasive and not to be overshadowed by micro-political controversy and controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. We continue with the first question under number 7820-6-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA MP Rethymno - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illegal and vengeful disciplinary prosecution of doctors from the Athens Medical Association (ISA)". Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I considered it appropriate to ask, as a timely question, a written question, which had not been answered by the prior political leadership of the Ministry, and which, in my view, concerns a very provocative case of arbitrary and illegal decision by the board of directors of the largest medical club in the country, the Medical Association of Athens, which is indeed the President of Attica. According to the decision of the Medical Association of Athens, disciplinary action was carried out and disciplinary control was requested against the fellow doctor, pneumonologist - Intensive director of the ESS at the hospital of Agios Andreas, Patras, Takis Georgakopoulos, who served as Vice President of the EEA. Well, be careful. The Medical Association of Athens comes out and exercises disciplinary powers in one of its non-members - Mr.Georgakopoulos is a member of the Medical Association of Achaias - of its own motion, without any complaint and, above all, an issue that does not relate to the code of medical ethics, to the conduct of the medical work, but to the exercise of command in an agency supervised by the Ministry, such as EEAY. So he is accused of overreacting because he says, "Listen, check out the findings of the audit carried out by the EEAS services, asked for written explanations and imposed the statutory fines, disciplinary sentences on illegal and overwriting doctors." That's the charge. I think this is really a challenge, it is a reproach for the medical union. The signal is that the Medical Association of Athens defends not the well-intentioned professional interests of doctors, but practices of infringability, non-compliance with the law, failure to comply with the rules of good practice, documented medical practice. I therefore think that the political problem, of course, arises from the fact that Mr Georgakopoulos is making a hierarchical appeal, an application for treatment to the Minister for the responsible, who supervises the operation under the law of the medical clubs, and the Minister does not respond, leaving his fellow Member uncovered in an attempt to solitude and, above all, intimidation. I really want a clear and unequivocal answer today that this case is going to go to the file. It is unacceptable and only that there is a loose end and that the Minister of Health will inquire and control as Head of the Athens Medical Association those who took this infamous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u23	Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u24	I was really surprised to hear the question, which you asked, and I'll tell you why. At the moment we are actually transferring an image of the duty of the Minister to control decisions of the Public Law Legal Officer of the Medical Association. If we get into the logic that you are bringing to Parliament today, the Minister is actually a secondary body, which does not judge the legality of the acts, but is judged on the substance. And I will tell you in particular, I have read all the thinking and I have a point of view and I hear what Mr Georgakopoulos says whether what he has done, he has done it in his capacity as Vice-President of the EEAS and whether he can be checked as a doctor. Is that the Minister's job? Because if you consider this to be the Minister's job, it means that any disciplinary body if the Medical Association does and someone considers it to be affected will make a hierarchical appeal to the Minister and the Minister, who supervises the Medical Association, will take a stand on matters of substance. Whether Mr Georgakopoulos is offended by the actions of the medical profession, although at that time he was Vice-President of the EEA, is something that is a matter of substance. Because I too am suspended, Mr. Xanthi, but I am a member of the Bar Association, and the Bar Association has the opportunity to intervene with me, even though I am not currently practicing the hard core of the lawyer's profession. But do you know what's impressive, Mr. Xanthi? I should therefore like to join you in your position that I, as Minister, now control the decisions of the Medical Association and that control of me does not require hierarchical action, is made on its own initiative. Mr. Georgakopoulos asks me to withdraw two decisions of the Medical Association as illegal. One is 24-4-2018 on your service, Mr. Xanthi. The first decision of prosecution is 24-4-2018. The hierarchical appeal takes place in '21, but you, as Minister of your own initiative, control the decisions of the Medical Association. If we join your post it says nowhere that the decisions of the Medical Association are checked upon appeal, it says the Minister is supervising the Medical Association. From the 244-2018 decision to disciplinary review of the authoritarian disciplinary procedure of the Athens Medical Association until July 19 19, did you not see this illegal decision you are asking today, so as to do what you are asking me to do today? The second is 19-9-2019. But I'm asking you directly. For a year and a half, there has been such an illegal decision of the Medical Association and you, as Minister, have not been performing your duties? Because the hierarchical appeal is made in advance three and two and a half years after the actions. In order for you today to be able to ask and speak of any persecution and I ask you directly, have you accepted, under your office, sixteen months, that there is an illegal decision by the Medical Association - if there is - and you have not performed your duties as Minister, what you are asking me today? Because Article 290, which incorrectly refers to the application here, also refers to the control of the medical association's finances, but also to Article 309(2), which refers to the control of the Minister for the decisions of the Board. If you had the power to check, as you say today, then for sixteen months you have done nothing for sixteen months. You know, however, that you had no point in checking, because the Minister can't control the substance, and we don't want a minister going to the institutions and taking disciplinary proceedings, and we'll say he'll do disciplinary control. If Mr Georgakopoulos is right about these missing issues and says that they are matters of substance, it is not the Minister's job to judge. It's the medical association's work with his disciplinary bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Xanthi, here's the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u26	Minister, I'm really surprised. I'm really surprised! You come here now and you're trying with legalism to avoid the substance. Obviously, I had no knowledge of this decision of the Athens Medical Association because the doctor in question had not appealed and applied for treatment. Apparently, I had no knowledge. And it's shameful, it was summoned to apology in the middle of a pandemic. A doctor of the first line, a man who has fought in the intensive “Saint Andreas” Hospital of Patras, is called in the middle of an apology because he did not protect his colleagues and did not offer immunity to illegal doctors. That's the charge. Will you take a position on this or will you cover Mr. Patoulis and the blue majority of the Board of Directors of the Athens Medical Association? Is that the message you're sending, Minister? Is that the zero tolerance to the smuggling of public money, provoking demand, waste and corruption? Is there or is there a question of moralisation in the health system in our country? And with such a attitude of political leadership, what is the message that we are giving? That the illegals will have immunity. It's a challenge the Medical Association's attitude, but I think it's a double challenge your attitude today. In fact, washing your hands right now, when this matter is in your knowledge, I think it is out of political sense. You must be clearly placed. It is the wrong signal that you are giving to a minority. It was not the majority of doctors, it was a minority of these colleagues, who even had unfinished business beforehand, from the previous period when the insurance funds existed before the EEA. They were checked by the competent services of the EEA. A fine was introduced by the competent authority. Mr. Georgakopoulos invited them to explain. In some cases where there was a documented representative, the case entered the file. But, where there was obvious illegality, the necessary fines were imposed. So where's the dead? Really, what do you not understand from all this manipulation? I expect a very clear and unequivocal statement that these behaviours are not tolerable, and indeed from the largest Medical Association in the country that is leading, a major member of the government is still leading.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u27	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u28	Mr Minister, I was very clear and you cannot speak of ignorance when Mr Georgakopoulos was put in the position of Vice-President of the EEA. So you didn't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u29	And we're proud of that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u30	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u31	Are you proud of the attitude of your blue trade unionists?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u32	Wait a minute! Well, you're proud, but don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u33	You are proud to be, but you are telling the National Representation that for the one you appointed to the EEAY, you did not know that the disciplinary prosecution is starting on your government, from 24-4-2018. And why does Mr. Georgakopoulos come to apply for treatment three years later? And you had good knowledge, but you knew that as Minister you don't have the power to do what you say today. If you had competence, Mr. Xanthi, then the death is to you. Because all you have described for Mr Georgakopoulos as positive, you have allowed them. Because from 244-2018 and from now on you could as Minister, if you had the responsibility, check the decision of the Medical Association and say: 'it is illegal'. You didn't do anything. You didn't do anything! And call for ignorance. The Minister for Health invokes ignorance of such a key topic as Minister and calls for knowledge as a Member of Parliament who asks the Minister. With Mr. Georgakopoulos, who was appointed, you weren't speaking? Didn't he tell you that the authoritarian prosecution has started on your service? Because the substance is - and here it is our difference, Mr Xanthi - that you and now want what the SYRIZA government has shown over time: the Minister will do the judge! Mr. Georgakopoulos did some tests. From these checks, which you told them all of the jury, there are people who have been in court and have been justified, Mr. Xanthi. So, obviously, these checks weren't right. Obviously, he would also do checks that were right. If during the checks he's wrong, will I check him as Minister? You see, I don't take a position on Mr. Georgakopoulos. I have an opinion, I'm not in position. I'm the Minister of Health. So you come here and ask the Minister for Health to take a position that the checks carried out by Mr Georgakopoulos were correct, that those who went to the courts and were vindicated, were wrongly vindicated in the courts as the checks were correct, and whether or not the medical profession was insulted because they were suspended. These are all fundamental issues. If you want the Minister for Health to intervene in the disciplinary bodies, to intervene in the procedures and indeed to do what you are asking for in the appeal, i.e. to disciplinary review the bodies and boards which decide whether the decision of the Medical Association is incorrect and illegal, Mr Georgakopoulos will be entitled to the part of the substance and will be able to insult it, as you know. But I insist on that, Mr. Xanthi. And here, you can't convince me. You as Minister because you knew exactly that the question you're asking today has no legal effect, you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u34	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u35	Sixteen months there was a strong decision, you spoke to Mr. Georgakopoulos, you knew it. As Minister, you did not do what you ask me today. And Mr Georgakopoulos comes three years later, solely to create a matter of alleged persecution, to appeal to the previous Minister, Mr Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u36	Close, Minister. You've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u37	Why didn't he do it in 2018? Why didn't you check the decisions for yourself, Mr. Xanthi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u38	You have said that, do not repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u39	I think it is clear that you are actually going to create a political issue that, if there is one, you are first responsible for having allowed it for sixteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u40	All right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u41	Your political strife is clear. That's clear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 1 October 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1084/23-9-2021 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Nikolakopoulou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Application by the Directorate-General for Competition of the EU. for the Patras motorway - Tower and the timetable for the construction of the project." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 1086/24-9-2021, by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The exact amount of the reserve of the “ATITITIMERO S.A.””. 3. Under number 1080/20-9-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "What is the exact timetable for the work of Patras - Tower?" 4. The question by No 1093/27-9-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of the Interior, dated 1st and 2nd High School of the Municipality of Lagada, to the Minister of the Interior. 5. Under number 1090/26-9-2021, a topical question by Piraeus II Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "International Centre for Marine Technology and Innovation in Syros". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1087/24-9-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Pappas, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The N.D. "frozen" the great works in Thessalonica and today it reopenes them. Large delays and high costs for taxpayers." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Antagonism of the Olympiad of Halkidiki". 3. Under number 1098/27-9-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let the government clarify its intentions for exploiting the extent of Heraklion airport "N. Kazantzakis”. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Evaluation of the airport "N. Kazantzakis” for the benefit of local society.’ 5. The 1100/27-9-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct measures to relieve those affected in the wider area of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas from the 5.8 rhetoric". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 7382-17-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Fthiotis - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Strengthening Photida through the non-implementation of a series of routes on its rail network - characteristic of the examples of the remnant operation in Bralos, Molos, Stylidas". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 7686/30-6-2021 of SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "The problem of fire protection in the Sheikh Sou needs immediate solution and not disputes with competent and irresponsible. 3. The question and application under number 7997/651/5-2021 of the SYRIZA MP's documents - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Political Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, there is still a crime against the environment and the protection of biodiversity". Ladies and gentlemen, there remains a timely question and because Mr Constantinople has already come to serve, I should like to inform you that there will be no interruption of five minutes. I would ask the Parliamentary Groups to send rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives, because we will immediately enter the debate of the bill after the last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u43	We continue with the first with number 1089/24-9-2021 topical question by MP Chania of the New Democracy, Manousou - Konstantinos Voloudakis to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: “Is there any intention of forming a “Human Rights Supervisory Mechanism” at the border? Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Before I enter the subject, taking the floor in this Chamber today, I feel the need to express - with the vast majority of the Greeks I believe - my enthusiasm for our new defensive alliance with France, an alliance - in conjunction with the armament programme that accompanies it - which allows us to look at the future with a new national self-confidence. I'm coming to the point now. A few days ago, Minister, we read a post of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, in which satisfaction was expressed because - as the High Commissioner said in this post - the Greek Government intends to create a mechanism for the supervision of human rights at our borders. The post was accompanied by a document in which there are ten points suggestions to the Greek Government as to exactly how this mechanism should be and how it should function. The mechanism described has broad competences, broad intervention powers. In fact, if there were, it would be a mechanism that was permanently at our borders or would have the possibility of unintentional visits to control all the services and authorities that are currently involved in the management of immigration. This is of concern, especially because the proposal for this mechanism itself is linked to the ongoing negotiation on the new European Union asylum pact. In fact, this is a draft agreement with many problems for our country, which we have raised in the House, but which, in progress, has not yet come to an end. It is therefore surprising that the UN rush to prejudge the decisions of the European institutions. On this basis, I ask, Minister: is there really any will for the government to create a mechanism as described by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees at our borders? In addition, I ask: has such a debate been held in the context of the negotiations on the new asylum pact, since the new asylum pact actually provides for such a mechanism, but leaves it to the discretion of the Member State in accordance with guidelines to be adopted? Thank you and I will return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I read this post myself. The reality is that, on the one hand, our country naturally guards its borders. Greece has land and sea borders. There are European regulations governing the protection and security of borders, and our country guards its borders with full respect for Greek, European and international law. As a result of an overall policy that we have on reducing migration flows today, we are talking about a 90% reduction in flows over 2019. On the other hand, Greece observes the provisions on the protection of fundamental rights as part of the European acquis, as part of the Geneva Convention, as part of international agreements and conventions on the protection of human life at sea. From there on, the European Commission did, in September 2020, propose a package of regulations called ‘The new Migration and Asylum Pact’. We're still early in the negotiation, and I don't know how long it takes to reach an agreement. There is no proposal for a border control mechanism in this agreement. There is a proposal in the regulation on border controls that there should be mechanisms for control of the asylum procedure following someone's arrival in the European territory. But this has still not been approved by the Member States. It has not been approved by the European Parliament. It is therefore not part of European legislation. I read thoughts and proposals coming from non-governmental organisations about how Greece should guard its borders. And I see some legislative acronyms that are trying to say that the states have no borders. These are not the views of the Greek Government, they are not the views of all the Member States of the European Union. The countries have borders and there are procedures for coming to them. From there on, with regard to the control of the Government and the control of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, this is not the case with extraordinary special committees involving representatives of organisations or other bodies, whether international or civil society. This would run counter to the concept of national sovereignty. Governments' control over a favoured democratic city is done by independent justice, by the judiciary, which have the task of controlling any complaint, of conducting the necessary investigations and, if necessary, of bringing cases before the courts. So that is what is happening in democracy. So I do not think that our country has any reason to proceed with the creation of any exceptional special mechanism. I am telling you again that there is no specific European Commission legislative initiative concerning all Member States. If there is a proposal concerning all Member States, Greece will discuss it within the Council of the European Union. We alone can do something about an issue that we do not think is there you realise that it is not on our priorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I thank you for the very clear and clear answer that there is no such intention and that there is not even such a debate. In particular, I welcome your point that in democracy, control over services is not carried out by extraordinary committees and mechanisms such as those described either by non-governmental organisations, international organisations or others that may be involved, but by the organised state, as you quite rightly said. Minister, the fact is that in the last two years a real feat has taken place in our home country in relation to the management of illegal immigration. Report the 90% reduction of the flow. We all remember the Evros crisis, which was a turning point, I believe, and its successful response and what followed. These all make us feel the need that we need many times in the outside world and some powerful political forces to clear up a few things self-evidently. And it is a good reason for this document and this trend that seems to exist in the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. There is now an entire ecosystem, a very strong ecosystem from international organisations, political forces, non-governmental organisations that are pushing towards a practically open borders. We saw this ecosystem running by exerting pressure on our homeland. We have seen complaints against our country and against FRONTEX, the European Border Guard Agency, which, of course, have collapsed. We have seen complaints about human rights violations, which on many occasions have had the misinformation of Turkish services in our case. These complaints were checked by a special committee of the European Parliament to which we were also denounced and nothing emerged, because our country really respects human rights. Our homeland, Minister, as you recognize, has one particular feature. At its borders, there is not only the pressure of immigration, at its borders there are threats to its sovereignty. Also, at its borders there are often hybrid threats, such as the work of immigration and migration flows from Turkey. These messages should, Minister, be forwarded to both the UN and the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the European Union, in which there are many voices in the direction I mentioned before, in the direction of pressure on the open borders. We also see these voices in the European services and in the committee itself in the European Parliament. Greece, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, respects human rights, but it also has the right to protect its borders. This right exercises it and will exercise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. You made two very good remarks in your dentistry. Indeed, there is an ecosystem of organisations that are maintained by maintaining the migratory crisis. The reality, however, is that, for our country of immigration, it has been a particular burden from 2015 until 2019. Our country clearly said that "we do not want to be the gateway to the smugglers who trade in human pain" and we put two specific and measurable goals as government: Firstly, the substantial reduction in flows. I told you the results: 90% reduction in flows this year compared with 2019. Secondly, the drastic reduction in the impact of the crisis on local communities, where by a hundred and twenty-one structures operating in our country last year we have thirty-five. We closed the structure in Samos, which was inside the city and delivered to the Municipality of East Samos on Friday. This is an example of how our new protection policy now positively affects the way of life in local communities. The second point you have raised and we are in complete agreement, is that there is also a change in the nature of immigration. We now see, on many occasions, the work of immigration, the work of people for political reasons, as happened last year in our country, as is done this year by Belarus to Poland, Lithuania, Latvia. And, respectively, we have seen cases in the Mediterranean. This means that Europe must see the migratory crisis differently. There has recently been a letter from six Ministers of Interior on a joint initiative from the Netherlands and Greece to the European Commission, calling on the European Commission to consider this new framework set up on the European continent as it moves towards legislative initiatives for the new agreement. I believe that the new pact is a great opportunity to shield Europe and show a regime of practical solidarity in the Member States. For us, these two are also key points in the alliance between the countries of the Mediterranean. Our country is now playing a catalyst in the negotiation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the sitting for a few minutes and continue with legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following an amendment agreement from 24.6.2016 Concession Convention entitled "Concess of Concession on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets within the Port of Piraeus" between the Greek State and the "Piraeus Port Authority S.A."'". In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, it is proposed in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers, parliamentary representatives, as well as ministers, a circle of priority involving one speaker from each parliamentary group, as well as two twelve-mile circles of speakers each: five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25, who will participate in the discussion in a natural presence. Likely distributed in a 12-member cycle will be the Members who participate with a teleconferencing or physical presence. The draft law will be discussed in a single sitting on the principle, articles and amendments. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u53	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u55	Please, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to inform you that we are submitting a request for a roll-call vote under Rule 72 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the draft law entitled: "A concession agreement on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus" between the Greek State and the "Piraeus Port Authority", so that each and every one of us can take a stand against such a shameful amendment to the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Santorinier. I should like to inform the House, because we do not know what time this whole process will end and to make it easier for all of us, that the roll-call vote, like any other request for roll-calls from any other party, will take place tomorrow at 12.00 hours immediately after the discussion of the bill and before the start of the Ministry of Labour's bill. Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the New Republic, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, has the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u58	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the excellent agreement between our country and France on the defence agreement and the redefinition of Greece's position on the geopolitical chess board, when traditional alliances are restructured and new power poles are created. So it is indeed an important agreement on our national interests. Now let's go to our bill. The agreement to amend the concession agreement between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority settles the issue of delays in the implementation of specific investments as provided for in the 2016 concession agreement. At the same time, the road opens for transferring an additional 16% of the shares in the PPA from TDI to 'COSCO', for a price of EUR 88 million. A prerequisite for obtaining this second package of shares was the completion of specific compulsory investments within the first five years following the transfer of the original 51% share capital. The first-period compulsory investment programme included projects with a total reference cost of EUR 293,8 million. These included the extension of the southern passenger port, the improvement and maintenance of various infrastructures in the port, the construction of new oil quays and the improvement of the infrastructure of the ship repair zone. Contractual investments that have been completed so far, according to the figures submitted by the ministers to the committee responsible, amount to EUR 99 000 000. It should be noted here that 51,000 of these relate to the three-year summer 2016-2018, namely the rule of SYRIZA and 48,000,000 in the last two years, to the rule of New Democracy and, indeed, to the middle of a pandemic. Given the delay in implementing the agreed compulsory investments in the first five years, there were two options, two routes. One was consensus, conciliation with a view to ensuring that investment is continued and completed. The other was the arbitral resolution of disputes and the judicial dispute, which would inevitably lead to the activation of the anticipated criminal clauses by the Greek State. I think that - we are all aware of this - would lead to new delays and protracted uncertainty in the implementation of the compulsory investment programme. In order to prevent this risk, the first route was chosen, the negotiation of the two parties and their agreement to amend specific provisions of the Convention, amendments clarifying precisely the conditions for the fulfilment of all the investor's obligations and ensuring that although the transfer of the second share package of 16% takes place before the compulsory investments provided for in the concession agreement are completed, a specific provision to protect the interests of the Greek State is taken. The amendment agreement is extended for five years from the transfer of the additional 16% of shares over the period for the completion of the compulsory investments in the first period. This time period may be extended up to another five years only for limited and exceptional reasons which impede the progress of the projects and are beyond the responsibility of the PPA and the 'COSCO', the so-called suspension of a period of implementation. The suspension will only be given when there are clearly defined reasons outside the sphere of influence of PPA and COSCO, which are related to already authorised projects of the first compulsory investments and may result in partial or total suspension of their implementation course. Those so-called suspension events shall include judicial decisions that cause job suspension or annul administrative decisions as non-legal, modification of terms and conditions of the existing framework, the finding of antiquities in the implementation of a first compulsory investment, the execution of an investment in a adjacent monument. The total suspension time for all suspension events may not last for more than five years. Monitoring of an event of suspension, as well as assessment and assessment of its impact on the implementation of investments, will be certified by an independent engineer drawing up a quarterly report. In order to resolve any disagreements in the implementation of the first compulsory investments due to the suspension incidents, a gradual amicable consultation and arbitration procedure between the Greek State and the PPA is provided for. In any case - and this is particularly important - it is clearly stated that none of the proposed regulations aimed at dealing with this issue can lead to the discharge of the PPA from the contractual obligation to complete the first compulsory investment. It is also possible to start the implementation of compulsory investments in the second period before the tenth anniversary of the date of entry into force of the amended concession, i.e. before the five plus five years. The criteria for this are the interoperability of the latter with the first compulsory investments, and if the progress of implementation of the latter so permits. In addition, non-compulsory investments will henceforth be able to make use of the fast track procedure provided for in the concession agreement for the authorisation of compulsory investments. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meetings of the committee responsible, we referred to both me and the co-legislative ministers in a series of forecasts other than the amendment agreement being ratified, which protects the interest of the Greek State and which act as an incentive for the timely completion of the agreed investments. Firstly, the transfer of 16% is subject to a dissolution of the non-implementation of the first compulsory investments on the ground of 'COSCO' or the PPA over the next five years or within the next ten years if grounds for non-controlling the PPA and 'COSCO' arise and a suspension period is given. With the dissolution of the legality - in our case the transfer of shares - is immediately produced, but the previous situation is automatically overthrown and reintroduced if the future and uncertain event occurs, namely the non-implementation of the first compulsory investment. These, in fact, must have been completed at least 98% of their total budget and 95% of the budget of each compulsory investment. In other words, if within the planned period investment is not carried out to the extent that it is defined and that is why the 'COSCO' or the PPA is responsible, then 16% of the shares are automatically reimbursed to the SWEDEN and the SWEDEN returns the price of EUR 88,000,000. Secondly, the obligation to deposit 'COSCO' is introduced in an additional guarantee letter in favour of the HSE to transfer 16% of the shares. The amount of the guarantee letter is EUR 29,000, and corresponds to 1/3 of the budget of the unexpected first compulsory investments in the part of the PPA. It should be noted here that this guarantee letter is added to the guarantee letter of EUR 15 million, which has already been granted in favour of the Greek State under the concession agreement. In the event that the investments in the first period are not implemented at the planned times and rates and that is why the PPA and Cosco are responsible either exclusively or over 90%, the guarantee letter falls to the detriment of 'COSCO' and for the benefit of the GDR. Third, as long as the fulfilment of the solvent is pending, there is a right to veto, i.e. to veto, decisions relating to the completion of the first compulsory investment and decisions leading to a weakening of the position of the GOI in the PPA. This compensates for the reduction in the number of members of the fund from three to one due to the reduction in the share capital of the fund. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the arrangements which are reflected in the amended concession agreement and the subsequent purchase of shares, there are concrete benefits which we deserve to highlight. As we have said, the risk of delays due to recourse by the Contracting Parties to the arbitration settlement of their disputes shall be eliminated. The possibility of a generalised dispute is limited by the escalating process of resolving each disagreement separately. It supports the quickest possible completion of the compulsory investment programme by identifying the reasons for suspension and assistance of an independent engineer to confirm them. 'COSCO' acquires 16% of the PPA's share capital before the realisation of the first compulsory investments, but with increased public interest protection, and the HSE receives normally EUR 88 million. The possibility of filling the diluent herein and the discounting of the guarantee letter gives the PPA a strong incentive to implement the first compulsory investments. The obligation of the PPA and of the 'COSCO' to implement the first compulsory investments, whether or not the diluent is paid, is maintained. The implementation of the first compulsory investments shall be ensured, without time limit, by providing a new guarantee letter corresponding to the total value of the uncovered investments. Also, the remaining share rights of HICP in the PPA are protected and its influence on decision-making on the realisation of the first compulsory investments is strengthened. We therefore have an agreement from which both members win. The smooth continuation of an ambitious investment programme means upgrading the infrastructure and services of the largest port in the country and thus strengthening the role of the international cruise centre and transit trade, with a positive footprint on the national economy, employment and the geopolitical importance of our country. At the same time, we are sending a strong signal to the international investment community that the Greek state is making a constant effort to promote foreign investment in our country. So, ladies and gentlemen, the crucial question remains: Do you want to support the investment in Piraeus with any benefits that this entails or tell us to blow everything off in the air? The rest is either off the subject or off the ground in sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you for the time too. Mr Santorinios now has the floor from SYRIZA for 15 minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin the debate on the draft bill, I would like to say on the amendment that we are taking the initiative today. We therefore have a regulation on the exceptional reduction of excise duty on fuel, because we now have a government which is present and welcomes. It sees the wave of precision dismantling family budgets, driving small and medium-sized enterprises to despair and not interfering with any substantial measures to halt the wave of precision. It sells out the natural monopolies of energy, sells PPC - the only tool it could have at the moment to regain this precision wave - and does not interfere with the speculative games that are currently being played. So we are tabling this amendment which can be a breath for households for heating, in fact for budgets, for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially the craft industries or industries which are much of their operating costs. We are trying to maintain accuracy with this legislation and we ask you to accept it in order to retain the wave of precision that is being pushed by the increased cost of energy and fuel. The proposal is at the thresholds of the European Union's excise duty rates. Such reductions and initiatives are taken by governments throughout the European Union, such as the Spaniards. I now move on to the main theme of the debate. Minister, three meetings of committees, three positions of ministers - two of you and one of the Finance Minister - have been held to hear nothing! You hid yourself in particular "cheet" and you cannot convince anyone about what you are coming today and you ask Parliament to vote on. You cannot convince society or the institutions. We saw it yesterday in the consultation of the bodies. Almost all of the operators are against this amendment that you are bringing today. Let's see if you can convince the MPs too. We will listen to them next time in the debate. It is an amendment that gives you - we have proved it to the committees, I will now prove it - to the PPA of up to EUR 90 million! It acquiescites the PPA for its responsibilities for the non-implementation of specific compulsory investments, which the Greek state has asked for to implement. Otherwise, this contract was not possible. This contract was supposed to be made because the port of PPA should be upgraded through certain investments. Are they? How many of them? Within five years, 90m euros have been invested, out of 290m euros, when in fact 130m euros are from the ESRB. And in these EUR 90 million, the EUR 20 million is again from the ESRB. It has been delayed in implementing critical infrastructures for the port, which, as we know - and we heard yesterday from the operators - are in need of small and medium-sized enterprises, there is a need for ship repair. They are investments that are needed by the users of the port and by the national economy. Instead of applying the contract you have in your hands and anticipating these scenarios, you choose to transfer the blame to the public and to the citizens. You're acquitting the PPA, and you're saying he's not responsible. But in a contract which is two partners, if one does not have responsibility for the contract, then who is responsible? The other one! Unless he's got some kind of theory, if God has a responsibility! So you come and blame the public and the public for not allowing the PPA five years to make these eleven compulsory investments! All the institutions have pointed this out to you! They pointed out the blunt delays. In fact, there was another point made by the institutions. They pointed out that while we in 2016, in a difficult situation, were called upon to sign this convention, a contract you left us that did not protect neither the institutions nor the small and medium-sized enterprises nor grant spaces to local government, nor did we protect society, and we tried to turn this convention into a convention that could be implemented and in the interests of Piraeus and the national economy, you were making this amendment without informing anyone! Nobody! Even worse, Minister. Honestly, I thought you'd understand one of the things we've been talking about these days. And I heard this sad yesterday, sad indeed, coming and trying to prove blame for the services. You came to tell us that for three projects, which received environmental permits in 2019, and I will explain why they obtained environmental permits in 2019 - a total of 26.5 million, or less than 10% of the total investment, it was the Greek State that was delayed and not the PPA. And that is why we must not lie about the PPA and give him ten years of extension, and it is time to implement the investments. At the same time, you're chasing the citizens, and that's gross. It's vulgar to whisper citizens, because they want to protect the environment from illegal sinking. It is vulgar to whisper citizens, because they want the environmental impact study to predict that there will be no air burden, no charge on the city's traffic. I asked you yesterday and you didn't answer me. I hope you answer me today. How many days of delay did one of these eleven projects have been caused by the citizens' reactions? A week? A month? Two months? For two months you've been giving them ten years of delays. But you know what? For that specific reason, I will tell you. In 2016, when the PPA requested the renewal of environmental conditions, it had been informed that a comprehensive renewal should be made for all investments. In 2016. Do you know when he testified on these additional three investments - because the previous ones, as I will explain to you later, were licensed environmentally? In October 2019, three years and two months after it was informed that it has to submit environmental impact studies. Then! Who's to blame for this delay? The public, the citizens, or the naturality? Just so we know what we're talking about in here! And, falsely, the only solution is to find a compromise, because otherwise we will have legal problems, E, no, Minister! It's not the only solution. Because the contract has specific arrangements. ‘He has predicted it. You're imposing criminal clauses. The contract's continuing. Did I not understand whether a criminal clause is imposed, and even if the 'COSCO' is to apply to arbitration, does the conventions suddenly stop? What happened? Suddenly all the contracts, because we're going to have a court dispute with the other body, will the contract end? Let us stop implementing the projects. Do you know what that means? That in the decade the criminal clauses, which will now be 20% on the endless, will be 120% on the endless. 120% of the endless! So let him now pay the 40 million and not do the remaining 200 and then pay another 240 million in the decade. That's it. You're lying about stopping investments. The investments won't stop. You delay investments because you give them ten years of trawling to complete - five plus five are, Mr Marcopoule - critical investments, which should have been completed on 11/8. Are you in this way boarding who? The inconsistent partner. At the same time, you are degrading the port from the untimely implementation of investments. It is downgraded by the insufficient provision of services. Even this prolongs, the time that PPA may not provide adequate services to operators. And what does that mean? Mr. Kanakakis said it yesterday from the ship repairers. It means they don't even have electricity in some businesses. That's what it means. And you accept that! You accept that and you extend it. Well done, congratulations! At the same time, you are downgrading the competitiveness of port services. And you do something else, something else even worse. You can even modify those investments which are considered critical for the port, with various legal terminology that they will find, that they cannot implement the investment, or that can be implemented by some. For example, they have not completed the infrastructure in the ship repair and they can say 'We have found problems, we cannot stop it and therefore stop it.' and they will invest at the equivalent level - we do not say that it will not be the same - but the ones who want the public interest, the ones that the port wants, the ones that society wants, the ones that the operators want. And what will these be, Minister, the mall or the pier 4, who will destroy the keracini and Perama? Is that what you want? Is that what you give them, white paper to make pier 4? All these days we specifically denounce you and tell you that, for 50 days, since 11 August, you have not imposed what is provided for in the convention, you are committing offences, a breach of duty and a serious breach of public interests and a total damage to the public, which can reach up to EUR 90 million if we go to the extreme tenth scenario. And I've explained it to you, and I'll explain it to you now. Criminal clauses of 40 million, 20% of the remaining 200 million. And while we had the breakthrough cult that when they finish the investments they're going to get 16%, you put something else. Of course you haven't given us the stock-purchase agreement to see it, you tell us. Another crucial issue. You say "We will give you 16% and if you do not make the investments, you will swallow a guarantee letter then and at the same time you will now get the shares". But what does it mean to take the shares? It means that for ten years they will take EUR 5 million a year, EUR 40 million a year, and so the criminal clauses and 5 million a year from profits, equal to 50, that is 90 million damage. 90 million, hot into public funds. This is the damage to the government you are causing. And you are misleadingly saying that we will go to conflicts and so the works will stop. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me to also take part in my dentistry. Thank you very much. So we tell you that the solution is simple. I'm telling you, step by step so you don't get confused. The criminal clauses are imposed, 40 million, the obligation is transferred from the first to the second investment period of the implementation of the compulsory contracts and even though they are not implemented, then for the remaining amount the criminal clauses are 120%, not 20%, but 120%, on the basis of Annex 16.2 of the Convention. You don't give them 16% of the shares. So the public for every year that they have not implemented the investments takes 5 million euros a year, money in the fund, to know exactly what we're saying. And you also impose criminal clauses because they do not have the minimum levels of service. And when we say minimum levels of service is not theoretical, it's nothing vague. The services that they need to provide are services so that small and medium-sized enterprises can operate, regardless of whether they want to be thrown off small and medium-sized enterprises and to do their own business. The Corkidis said that yesterday, which otherwise was in your account. But he said that PPA wants to throw Greek small and medium-sized enterprises out of the port, and you make it powerful to throw Greek businesses out of the port. That is what you are doing with the amendment of your contract today. And because I do not want to keep too much time, Mr President, and thank you for tolerance, I will tell you a few things. Were there any delays in licensing? No, they were not because almost all eleven projects are covered by the environmental study and the corresponding environmental approval decision, which was amended and extended in 2018. What works were there not? For the three mentioned by the Minister, I told you that he had delayed three years in bringing the studies. Did he need the master plan? Because yesterday the Minister told us that we were doing the master plan. You didn't have to. Because with Law 4504 Article 86, which you extended after - there is no need for the master plan for these investments. Each of them may have a licence on its own. And I brought you an example: The improvements to shipbuilding infrastructure have had permits since 2017. Did they start when? In 2020. And yesterday the president of the ship repairers told us that there are two people there since February and they've been hitting a hammer. That's what's happening! That's how works are done! That's how these big investments are made! That's why you give them ten years of trawling. Because two people hit a hammer takes time to complete this investment. So I'm hanging up. Ladies and gentlemen, when we were obliged to sign this convention, we brought a convention that protected the interests of the Greek public. It turns out today how good the contract was and what clauses it had in order to protect the interests of the Greek State. We have brought a contract that was in constant consultation with local bodies, with local authorities, with the Piraeus operations in order to be able to protect the Piraeus operations, so that we can get the maximum for local bodies. And we got the fertilizers, we got space for local government to resurrect the citizens of Piraeus. We have received guarantees that it will be possible to become the largest port in the country a truly competitive port. These guarantees have not been implemented and you, instead of asking them to be implemented, are giving them money and you are giving them an extension. This is not how you help the business climate in the country. This is how you create a business climate that does not correspond to a European country, but to a third world country, it corresponds to bananas. And we in Greece don't want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u61	I want to tell you to know that there are two minutes left for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u62	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Biagis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Secretary, you will allow me before I begin to give a given dimension that we have seen for the past few days. All criticism from all groups, from all parts of the House, is whether it is or is not for the public's benefit, this amendment to the convention. The opposite of yours is that there is a dissolutionary sect and that there is an additional guarantee that comes and well to balance any problems we - the rest of us - say and have charged this amendment. And for the first time, while we are asking for the whole following the request of the SYRIZA rapporteur, we have asked for almost all of the exceptions, you have not been kind enough, I would say nothing more, to provide us with this specific document which proves whether or not the diluent heresy exists, proves the existence or not of a greater guarantee, proves all that you are saying. We are therefore talking about the data we have and the data you have communicated to us and to society in general. The rest you keep secrets. Who knows what else you might be holding. This would allow me as a starting point for those who really understand the dimension of the subject and what is being played over the table and what is probably under the table I would say. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before going to the political section of this bill, I would just like two minutes to stand up to what we have been living for two days in a row. In the course of the preparation of this draft law, the principles and rules of the law were fully circumvented. Within two days we ran panics from one room to the other, we came in - we went out. The reason? Unknown, we still don't know him. We're waiting for answers. The only answer we have in our claim and in the criticism we are bringing us as an example of the way the SYRIZA Government legislated on this contract in 2016 and you say, "because they legislated like this, we are therefore in the right direction". No, Mr. Undersecretary. Under no circumstances will you even want to have any bad texts of SYRIZA's rule and, in this particular convention, do not create customary law to come and hide behind it for the bad texts of the way you are legislating today. Let's get this straight. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our prolongation from the beginning had been in favour of granting individual activities of the port of Piraeus without a sale of the majority package of shares, with an effective institutional framework to ensure healthy competition, and of monitoring compliance with the conditions of concessions and of course to ensure the protection of the natural environment. We have always considered and considered it self-evident that a strong Port Regulatory Authority exists in the standards of the Energy Regulatory Authority, a truly independent and effective regulatory and auditing authority, which monitors the market and the port activities. A principle which you thought is not working properly and therefore not correct the bad texts but effectively abolish it. In this context, therefore, it could well exercise the powers of the independent engineer by appropriately qualified personnel. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the concession agreement for the PPA, as it was passed and operated in the last five years, has created a special private monopoly system without effective and continuous control of its operation. The consequence of this at the end of the first investment period with the responsibility of the recent governments has come to the regrettable conclusion that the contractor has not realised its contractual obligations, such as the completion of basic infrastructure investments worth several hundred million euros. Where would all these investments reflect? Where will they benefit? Local society. And while there is at least the insurance of defective sects for the transfer of the additional 16% of the shares due to the non-implementation of these investments and while the existing concession contract provides for the possibility of imposing the planned financial clauses of tens of millions, your Government, Minister, does not exploit it in order to negotiate. And here, if you will, let me, it is true that the 2016 Convention as it was signed would sooner or later bring the Municipality of Piraeus to have no representative on the board. It's true. After the sale and transfer of 16% the representative of the Municipality of Piraeus would be one and not three who are today and thus through this number was also the representative of the Municipality of Piraeus. But you were able, through the company's practice of negotiating this, so that, at least, in the largest port of our country the municipality had its representative. You didn't even do that! Even in this process at least you didn't win! However, the Government does not only take advantage of the best conditions, at least of ensuring the implementation of investment, not only did it have recourse to arbitration, as it itself admits, because it considers, as it says in the impact analysis, that it would cause obvious economic consequences and undesirable additional delays - prejudicial, that is to say, a negative result - not only does it show a clear and adequate documentation of what it does not do, but also of what it decides to do through this draft law, and it could ask, as it should do any good administration. This would give an opinion from RAAL, Mr Secretary-General, not only in relation to the institutions and in concealing any reality, with the consequence that even in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State it is stated that according to the acceding parties, namely the Government, no expenditure is caused against the State budget by this provision, which is also an indirect question by the State body responsible for this control. But it goes on to an apparently contrary to the interests of the Greek public scandalous regulation. It modifies the existing concession unilaterally in favour of the interests of the Contractor and without any profit for the Greek State. With this amendment, the Greek State is blocking its minimum negotiating weapons, such as the transfer of 16% of the shares in the PPA, without at least ensuring that the investments due for the last five years from 'COSCO' will be made not in the next ten or fifteen years, but as quickly as possible. Do the conditions laid down in the draft law in question have been met from the outset, would it be possible for additional benefits to be granted to the State or even to another contractor? I'm saying, questions arise. Would the Greek State benefit more than is left to anticipate? Minister, we cannot, in fact, follow your most basic argument, claiming that, if you do not go ahead with this arrangement, the investments that are due to 'COSCO' will not be made. How do you prejudge that, Mr. Placiotakis, Minister? Do you have any information from the counterparty that we do not know about? In your yesterday's statement, in fact, you considered that, under the present circumstances, the counterparty company will not accept the criminal clauses which are relevant to it and you have considered, in view of the suspension of the contract and the referral to arbitration, that it is more likely that the contract will be suspended. In fact, you have rushed to accept that the Greek State has at least the full, at least part of the responsibility for delaying the implementation of the ‘COSCO’ obligations. Do you realize your role and responsibility as the prompt Minister of the Greek Government, which has the task of safeguarding the interests of the Greek State? Because with this amendment, but unfortunately also with what you are saying before Parliament - I am sorry to say it - you are creating impressions for the benefit of 'COSCO'. You also referred to the risk involved in arbitration. We understand that, Minister, with your Government as an adversary on the part of the government to any arbitration that you cannot really support. In fact, Mr Minister, as it emerges from your position and stems from the provisions of the regulation under discussion, when a counterparty with the Greek State does not comply with the contract agreed by a binding contract, from which it has already clearly benefited and even monopoly for a long time, it should suspend the obligations or the anticipated criminal clauses on its own initiative and, for a period of time, the measures taken by the individual, on conditions and additional prolongation. Even if we overlook the obvious inadmissible in the interests of the Greek public administration, how can you be sure, Mr Minister, that the contractor will meet her obligations even after the years you have given her, ten, fifteen and has God? What will force the contractor to keep them this time? The criminal clauses that still apply may be true? But these are today, and the contractor ignored them! So why not ignore them in the future, when the next ten, fifteen years will have multiplyed their profits and will have been further strengthened, because their position, as we have said, is dominating and monopolistic? Will the Greek Government's possible decisive attitude not to claim any criminal clauses? But it will already have come to light that the in-house governments, like yours, cannot inspire respect for the imposition of the relevant sanctions. What will not prevent the contractor from thinking that the Greek Government will propose another extension and another one? So not only will this individual but any other contractors think of something similar? So we risk suffering a straitjacket, the opposite of what you say, namely not to make the investments due and to create a bad precedent for the Greek public's future contracts in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have you considered at all what your Government accepts with its unilateral retreat? But, of course, it accepts all the arguments and objections of the contractor, that the delay in integration of investments is not due to its own omissions, but to external factors such as, for example, - look! - the actions brought by citizens or bodies in justice and the late adoption of judgments. And how does she reflect her acceptance? What's the government doing? Not only by providing an immediate prolongation of the debts, but also by including the list of strong reasons for delay of the contractor through the new Annex 7.2.a. titled ‘First Investment Period Suspension Schedule’. And, of course, to blur water, does the opinion of the so-called 'independent engineer', who, of course, can be considered independent when he is housed in the PPA and rewarded by this PPA? For example, the Minister only mentioned to the Minister that the first notice of the PPA two, three years ago regarding the realisation of investments in the port of Piraeus was deemed to be abusive by the Council of State, because the company, 'COSCO', was not in compliance with the relevant provisions of the current legislation. Is it because of her Greek State of the Contracting Company for the purpose or not of failing to comply with existing legislation in the field, in the state, in the country she came to invest? Do you believe, Minister, that non-compliance with national law is a reason for acceptance as a legitimate retardation of the investment due? Minister, we can report a number of delays with the exclusive responsibility of 'COSCO', such as when it tried to integrate into the master plan that carried out ship repair activities, which were not explicitly provided for in the concession agreement and, of course, it was not permitted. By who? From the Port Planning and Development Committee, the ESAL, and after reaction from professionals and operators, and after highlighting the issue, it was the right solution. And, of course, the New Democracy Government has gone on the slippery path of its inadmissible conduct. Under Law 4720/2021 Article 51, it has led to the castration of the responsibilities and the potential for effective intervention of the rather annoying of the practices of the Port Regulatory Authority. Instead of strengthening its independence and institutional role, it has, on the contrary, abolished all its regulatory and supervisory powers and, at the same time, strengthened the possibilities of at least institutional intervention on the part of the Ministry. In her haste - or with artificial feasibility - she forgot to determine who is now responsible for imposing and measuring criminal clauses at the expense of the PPA, in accordance with the FEC 4892/B decision, in order to make it appear that we are reflecting the reality, Minister, after the removal of this competence from the RAL. Obviously, the Government considers it incomprehensible that criminal clauses should be charged to that contractor or other equivalent in the future. It is characteristic that the RAL - and we must point it out - is mentioned in the memorandum tabled by the operators yesterday in the third debate of the Committee on Production and Trade, where it states this surprisingly, hear it, ladies and gentlemen, 'until the present' - that is to say, 'the Port Regulatory Authority has not become aware or recipient of the imported version of the concession agreement'. After hearing, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of local government and the productive and professional bodies and chambers, we found that their overwhelming majority share our proposals on what would be the best model of the port, but also on the implementation of ports in the public interest and local communities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To the extent necessary, Mr President, take me from my denology. Thank you very much. Consistently, local government and bodies agree on the critical points and arguments they have put forward against this draft law. As a whole, they confirm the complete lack of an effort to dialogue with the Government in drafting this draft law, where the clearly expressed and well-known positions were ignored. As a whole, the representatives of local government state that they do not know or recognise the responsibility of the Greek State for the delays in the completion of the mandatory investments of 'COSCO'. On the contrary, they speak of certain environmental violations by the contractor and inability to monitor independent mechanical monitoring of the project implementation schedule and the environmental impact in general. The representative of the Piraeus Bar Association argued by questioning the view that the initial concession agreement made by the Government was not materially altered on the basis of the relevant decision of the Court of Auditors. What did he say? He noted in response to yesterday's disorientated intervention by the Minister of Finance that the Court of Auditors is carrying out a pre-contractual audit, but on the basis of the information available to him, including the government's misgivings regarding the Greek State's liability. That was the data you gave the Council of State, and that is the data you gave the Court of Auditors. It also noted the lost chance to renegotiate better terms of the concession contract, given the breach of the terms of 'COSCO' and still the existence of the negotiating force of the defective securitise of 16% of the shares in the PPA. It is also important to point out the representatives of the ship repairers that the extension given for completion of projects that can reach the five, ten and fifteen years, is an essential blow to the development and viability of their businesses and to the blockade of new investments that they have already made. It is therefore the Government with this draft law, if not, not sufficiently substantiated, that I would say, if not deliberately, that the public should claim and safeguard the interests of the public as a result of the unilateral default of the contract by the contractor. It attempts to move further into scandalous regulation in favour of its own interests by undermining the future of the great port of Piraeus and the neighbouring municipalities of wider economic activity, workers and the environment. Mr. Secretary, your Government and the relevant ministers are accountable and you will continue to be accountable even after this bill has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the main component of the government's preparatory operations, and in particular the legislative initiatives of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, is the avoidance of wide open and honest consultation with the social and economic partners, the legislative surprises of the parties and Members of Parliament, the failure to respect the basic principles of the principle of legislating and the centralisation of power, particularly in the field of port policy. The Government and the Minister responsible are characterized by a complete lack of centralized planning and strategy, but also by fragmentary efforts to cover or cover up the wrong options or inaction. So we say not in this bill, and we call on the Government to withdraw this unacceptable regulation, to proceed with any legal action arising from the provisions of the existing concession agreement and the existing legislation, to negotiate any amendment to the contract taking into account any negotiative advantages following a serious study and documentation based on the interests of the Greek State, and only with the help and advice of the competent Port Regulatory Authority, the proposals of the social and economic partners, the local authorities, professionals and scientific bodies in the region. It is a political crime now to pass bills on such crucial issues from the back of the House with full governmental subordination and with zero social information and tolerance. I would not like to add any more, respecting the time you have given me, Mr President. I would like to thank you, while reserved for the continuity and whatever is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u65	I don't give any more time. You took your time, as well as Santorinios and you have two and a half minutes. I would like to inform you that the Communist Party of Greece has submitted a request for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the draft law and, as we said earlier, the vote will take place together with the roll-call vote tabled by SYRIZA tomorrow at 12.00 a.m. immediately after the discussion of the bill and before the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, as we have said. And whoever else testifies, the same thing will happen. We are now continuing with Mrs Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u66	With this ratification of the 2016 Convention, the Government of New Democracy takes over from the previous SYRIZA government that had given 51% of the shares in the PPA to “COSCO”. We are talking about the largest port in the country and the largest in the Eastern Mediterranean, which is of particular geostrategic importance. There was a commitment that the Chinese monopoly would implement compulsory works and then it would also get a 16%, i.e. a total of 67%. What did the Qualified Opposition say to us? That compulsory investments were put in order to work more properly on the port and to make the investment more efficient. Mercy! You should go and tell the workers at the port who experience the 'COSCO' boot in Keracini with the dust from its construction sites to drown them and, above all, tell the residents of the region of Pirea. An area of special beauty with cultural heritage, recreational spaces for the whole of Lefkapidi, fishing, swimming, cultural events is already being destroyed by the stage of its construction. It's turned into an industrial zone and they'll get coaches, trucks, exhaust gas from cruise ships, giants, noise pollution and more. The trials caused indignation among the residents of Piraeus and should normally have stopped, since they are data and the environmental destruction of the Pirate for the profit of the Chinese capital is found. Yes, it's made with free money, money from the N.S.R.A. Its funding for the duro region has been approved without having been discussed, without having approved the strategic environmental impact study, neither the land uses and the conditions of construction pending. Environmental discounts were granted in 2018 by the Ministry of the Environment. In other words, all governments - PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy - have set back on 'COSCO'. The regional authority of Mr Patolis also gave the first dose to destroy the Pierrotic whole. You are sympathetic to the reinforcement of the Chinese monopoly. He's making most of it. Even in March 2020, in the midst of a coronary pandemic, downhills began and discharged the seabeds between Aegina and Salamis, provoking protests and complaints because there were analyses by the National Technical University of Athens and by the Hellenic Marine Research Centre. sediment with high concentrations of hazardous heavy metals were detected. You see, the catastrophic consequences are manifested in the construction phase and there is evidence. There were also convicts and fines from the region following autopsy for not placing floating protection barriers in the burial monument of Themistoklis, for capturing, for transporting materials from heavy vehicles without permission from the Municipality of Piraeus that passed through the city. The one-sided court of First Instance prohibited embezzlements at sea and imposed insurance measures. But the Council of State, by provisional order, banned ploughing and rejecting them in the Saronic Gulf. These were approved, and when we ask for the necessary checks to be carried out by the PPE for the protection of the marine environment, they say that only the PPA and the 'COSCO' have such competence. In other words, the auditor is also controlled in accordance with the 2016 SYRIZA Government Convention. Thus you are choking the rights to the protection of public health and the environment, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, which you are applying them in return. On the rights, working conditions, terrorism, the concern for the partition, accidents at work at 'COSCO' was described in the hearing by the President of the Piraeus Labour Centre. I am referring to them because through your false fights you are trying to award models for better privatisation when you are co-responsible for what the people and the country are pulling. What's your alibi? You are protecting the public interest, i.e. the 'COSCO' that over the years has broken one record after another profit. Here and for the Practical Proceeds first semester up and continues to build the cruise pier in Piera, and seeks the 4th pier for the increased containers. This profitability builds on the intensity of the exploitation of the port workers and of all the workers in the port that are prevalent contractors - heads count, not people -, lack of health and safety measures that are even more prosperous in a pandemic period, intensified work, employers terrorism, targeting pioneer union workers, while the rights of the Piraeus people for better quality of life, for port services that meet their needs for sea access and free spaces for recreation, for the protection of the environment and the natural landscape are suffocating under the conversion of the port of Piraeus into a monster with containers and cruise ships next to the already heavy populous districts that exist gasolines and a total lack of free space. In addition, SYRIZA noted that it had not carried out the investments it had committed, when it signed the degrading 2016 agreement with it. But it is precisely these investments that crush the rights and needs of the working people's strata. The truth is that even 100% would mean intensification and hard exploitation, cruise platforms in Piera, cassettes next to the port. The port would be turned into a monster by containers and cruise ships and the needs of the people would not be satisfied. Why are you amending the 2016 concession? But you want the criminal clauses not to be imposed on the Chinese monopoly by the delays in implementing compulsory projects and to divest it by 16% of the shares, while it is not entitled and to exempt it from the violations caused by popular reactions and mass mobilisations of unions, trade unions and the coordination of the Piraeus Labour Centre. All that you throw at sea, because it concerns people's needs and interests, and you moved 16% of the shares to 'COSCO', and six days ago you signed, although it did not meet the conditions. By fast track procedures bring the new terms of the new contract. At such speeds you do not move for the restoration of firefightings, which many have lost home and work, they do not have where the head of a bed, not even for rough anti-milling projects in burnt areas, nor for the earthquakes of Crete that begin tomorrow and the rains and are in tents. If a people's household or small and medium-sized family would not meet its financial obligations - from weakness, not from choice - or extensions, agreements, or other opportunities, but from electronic auctions. And if there is mobilisation of a protest, then it is criminalised according to the law of the SYRIZA that the current government applies. That's the bourgeois state. With every opportunity it smashes wages and people's incomes, it launches tax-free, it is the same state that lifts its hands high in front of the accuracy and product revaluations, because that is where the laws of the free economy and the market dominate, that is, the profitability of capital. That is why we have tabled an amendment to abolish VAT and excise duties on electricity, water, telephone and the abolition of HISPIA. Small relief if it passes, but we invite you to vote on it. What is the substance, ultimately, through the ratification of the amendment? That gives new privileges, advantages and too many facilities to "COSCO" for its profitability, and of course it is already the continuation of the contract signed by SYRIZA and you have all voted for it in addition to KKE. It is at the expense of the interests of the country and of the people and it will be the consequences that have already begun and are evident to the pirate people. That is why there is no good and bad contract. It is a strategy that favours the 'COSCO' monopoly. We've been confirmed. In 2016 we voted against and today we will vote against, but we see that with photographic provisions even these irregularities and irregularities are legalised and you tell us that it is not the fault of the Chinese monopoly delays. Then tell us who's to blame? Not that it would change the lives of the pirate people and in the country something, but the one who is charged with time delays has criminal clauses and you do not want to put them in place. You're modifying the times before the investment period, five that were in fifteen years. However, you did not tell us, who will assess the extension time or even partial or total suspensive effect? Who's gonna define it? You give the opportunity to renegotiate the agreement and you also define a mediator. Intermediation time will be considered as a time to inhibition. It won't be calculated. You will be able to replace the first compulsory investment with another project or find a commonly accepted solution and will be under the contractual obligation of the PPA - COSCO and under the contract. This is, in fact, a possibility for you to negotiate a new agreement without having to pass it through the House. Does 'COSCO' want a fourth pier? You'll give it in here, and we won't know anything. You gave the opportunity for the second investment period to begin earlier, but a reasonable question arises. When the first period expires in 15 years, how is it possible for the second government period to reach 15 years? Adopt and add fast track process for non-compulsory investments. The most important thing is that with the criminal clauses you have arranged to relieve the Chinese monopoly with various alibis and excuses. Otherwise you tell us that Noah’s flood would come, that everything would be levelled. Look, the monopoly would never find it again, because it is its way into the European Union and the single market. Also, you ensure that you do not trigger payments of criminal clauses, nor will you lead to a termination of this Convention. It is unacceptable and provocative, since you are guaranteeing that you will not intervene in all infringements of the 'PO-COSCO' by 2022, i.e. there will be no criminal clause. You reward them multiplely. They do what they want and you serve them. It is also said that, after ten to twelve years, criminal clauses may be imposed, but you say that if you do, it will be with every reservation and with very difficulty. The annex that the list of events suspending the first investment period is photographic includes all the irregularities and irregularities that have occurred and there are even penalties. However, you call them suspensions so that there will be an extension of time and the criminal clauses will not be charged. You even get to the point where the work to be done by the PPA - COSCO, such as shipwrecking or the execution of compulsory works in a monument - was and did not have protection measures - and these are to be considered as suspension events in order to have an extension of time. Finally, the ratification of an amendment agreement proposed by the Government of New Democracy, like the previous concession agreement of the PPA of 2016, serves the interests of the monopoly rather than the Greek people. That's why they're rejected. They are condemned and we of course vote against them. Fairly the Piraeus workers trade unions are currently organising a rally against the government's decision to grant an additional 16% of the shares in the PPA to 'COSCO'. A development that is typical and against the needs of the self-employed and the youth of Piraeus. That's why their demands are all for the people. I'm filing it in the Minutes. They demand that the implementation of the 'COSCO' master plan should not go any further. The works of cruise in Piraeus, the expansion of PPC and the pier in Armos do not go any further. As in Piraeus' industrial port zone with the ship building on the Perama coast, which can be a new time bomb in the city. Interventions in abandoned industrial buildings and warehouses do not change the conditions of construction and do not prevent the Piraeus people from accessing the sea. To respect the environment, the historic and cultural heritage of the city, and of course the free spaces are justly asked to be attributed to the people of Piraeus against all the business plans that are burdening the region, increasing the exploitation, leading to new risks to life, work and workers' rights. We are voting against and will not stop along with the pirate people claiming port to serve the people and not to make capital profit. No compromise with this state of exploitation promoted by urban governments and at the service of monopolies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Vassiliardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. "The PPC is working on the PPC," said SYRIZA's rapporteur. Does he not know that 34% of PPC has been transferred from its own party to the Foreign Supreme Court, while 17% of its subsidiary in TIADE in 2012? Did SYRIZA, in 2016, not establish the Supreme Court of Foreigners, who were prerequisites for the third memorandum, which he signed with New Democracy and KINAL? Isn't it a shame to mock the Greeks, say that it's sold out, something that doesn't belong to them, since it has already been granted to debt, a debt that doesn't cease to increase? On the subject now, the port of Piraeus is the largest of Greece, one of the twenty largest of the European Union, in terms of freight traffic, as well as one of the ten largest in Europe in relation to passenger traffic, with eight million passengers in 2016. We will, of course, submit all the tables in the Minutes. It extends to a coastline of over twenty-four kilometres long and to a total area of five thousand acres, next to the urban fabric in Piraeus, with a good transport structure, upgraded by a new metro line and online to the airport. That is why other activities can also be developed there, as the Chinese are planning, that is, a shopping centre, hotels and shipyard. It is therefore more than just a simple business, apart from the strategic importance of the port for the security of our country and for the economy. The port is now managed by the PPA, which has the right to use and exploit it, until 13 February 2052, while through the acquisition of its shares the control of the port has been transferred to the Chinese 'COSCO'. The total turnover of the PPA, its annual turnover, i.e. 132 million in 2020, while in 2007, before the concession, the turnover was 171 million. In 2019, before the pandemic, it was 149 million. Our first question, therefore, was how it was possible to reduce turnover despite the rise in movement from 'COSCO'. However, when the revenues from the concession of the projectors 2 and 3 have been added to the ‘COSCO’ by the PPA, compared with before 2008, especially when there has been a rapid increase in migrating containers. It is reasonable, therefore, to ask whether the registered smuggling from 'COSCO' in the port of Naples which it manages has been taken into account, as we will of course be tabling in the Minutes. However, when OLAF in Greece has imposed a fine of 200 million euros for tax evasion through the port. There is an investigation into illegal imports of undercutting textile products with a loss of customs duties of EUR 202.3 million, as we will, of course, be tabling in the Minutes. We asked more generally whether serious controls were being carried out in Piraeus in 'COSCO' for smuggling, but without getting any answers. From a geopolitical point of view, now, the port of Piraeus is in a very important strategic position, at the crossroads of maritime roads connecting Asia through Suez, Africa and the Middle East with Europe, as well as with the Black Sea. Piraeus also participates in the new Silk Road of China, which has now evolved into geostrategic formation, which includes a hundred forty countries on the road from China to Europe and Latin America, with China promising investments totalling 100 billion dollars. We must note here that the route through the Suez and Greece is by four days shorter than the Atlantic for ships from China. There are, of course, alternative routes being developed between China and Europe, such as China's terrestrial rail link with Germany, over ten to twelve days, as well as North Sea, which, with the melting of ice, will be opened on a stable basis for exploitation by 2030. Finally, the PPA has a ship repair capacity in its own facilities with two fixed tanks and three waterways, a total of forty - five thousand tonnes, compared with a hundred five thousand tonnes of Syros, two hundred twelve thousand tonnes of Elefsina and nineteen thousand tonnes of Scaramaga. Continuing with the contract history, China’s approach to Piraeus started in 2006, while the container station agreement was signed on board 2 and 3, in 2008. The goal was to increase capacity from one and a half million containers to four million seven hundred thousand containers in 2015. The aim is now achieved. In 2011, now, after Greece had been driven to the IMF by PASOK - reminding us that Greece is the first country to go bankrupt with money to the public institutions, from 20 to 40 billion euros, comico-tragic, apparently, according to the IMF - 74% of the PPA was transferred to the GOI while 26% was placed on the stock exchange. Later, in 2016, ‘COSCO’ decided to buy 67% of the shares in the PPA in two instalments, the first to 220,5 million euros for 51% and the second 88 million euros for 16%, provided that investments amounting to 293,8 million are carried out by August 2021. So he signed the contract with SYRIZA, who, after 2015, had bent his head and did what the Germans said, citing memos, prerequisites, etc., without any shame. Although, now, the EUR 130 million would come from European funding, almost half, as is the case with the 'FRAPORT', were invested only at EUR 100 million, because, according to COSCO, they have contributed to the delay in their implementation, which was not, in fact, the responsibility of the public itself. Unfortunately, it is in line with the view of 'COSCO' and the Greek Government, after transferring the agreed 16% PPA to EUR 88 million, despite the fact that the agreement was not complied with, giving it additional prolongation for investment, without the legal payment of clauses of EUR 40 million. This money, of course, will be collected by the TIADE to offset them with our public debt, a debt which continues to increase uncontrolledly, despite the sale and collapse of the living standards of the Greeks with the constant memoirs. In any case, we have stressed that this transfer of shares is a direct breach of duty by the relevant ministers, namely a criminal offence. As a matter of fact, in addition to the damage caused to the public interest, the loss of the clause and the non-recovery of dividends until the investments are carried out, the modification is a reciprocity, which will make use of all those who conduct similar transactions with our State in the future. In this respect, the message that the government sends to Greek citizens and domestic or foreign investors is that, there is no need to respect their contractual obligations towards our state, that the conditions and conditions of the original agreement can change in the process of implementing the investment projects without imposing the agreed criminal clauses on those responsible for the pretext of the suspension events. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. In the present case, the main changes are as follows: Firstly, in paragraphs 1 and 2, there are changes to wording in the preamble, due to the extension of dates, as well as to the definitions. Secondly, with paragraph 3, Article 7 shall be changed, which extends for five years the period for compulsory investment, without changing any of these or the costs, which remains the same, and the second period shall be extended to ten years. In addition, the use of independent mechanics and mediation, in the event of events in which investments occur, is delayed, i.e. investments, as well as the possibility of amending them. It does not specify, however, which criteria will be chosen by the independent engineer mentioned, who assumes serious responsibilities, such as finding suspensions, determining the duration of their suspensive effect, as well as drawing up and submitting a quarterly progress report, without any control at all. It is at least unacceptable. Thirdly, Article 8 of the Convention is amended by paragraph 4 by sharing responsibility for facilitating investment. Fourthly, in paragraph 5, Article 16 is amended, where the State waives clauses under certain conditions. Finally, paragraph 6 refers to the renewal of the guarantee letter and paragraph 8 provides that Annex 7.2 shall be presented with the events of suspension of investments in the first investment period. Furthermore, the non-implementation of investments without payment of the legal clause is not the only source of concern for this contract. I would like to quote some of the problems that have arisen: firstly, the PPA has launched a contractor register in the shipwreck area of Perama, which has created many reactions, in the sense that it is trying to control, who is active there while it is, of course, not part of its competence. Secondly, inadmissible by SYRIZA, a plan for converting the pagoda and two storehouses to hotels, as part of an investment amounting to EUR 110 million, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, while the construction of a shopping centre and four luxurious hotels in Piraeus has been frozen because of the pandemic. This is clearly about tourist investments, which are completely changing the form of the contract, and they will remove cigarettes from the rest of the region, at least as far as the mall is concerned, the mall. If it happens, then at least it will have to change the valuation of the PPA, since it has another value for an abandoned building in the port as a warehouse and another if it is sold to become a hotel. Furthermore, because we want to be constructive as a Greek Solution, in addition to the geopolitical importance of cooperation with China, we believe that we should at least take advantage of it to promote investment by the Chinese, outside tourism - that is to say, tourism - in infrastructure and in production, as China is moving to Central Europe and to the other countries, the Silk Road. Even more, we should strive for China, by this very privileged convention, in general, to contribute to the development of the Piraeus shipping complex, in cooperation with the Eleusina and Scaramaga shipyards for the service of shipping pod, Greek owner and Chinese. In particular, as it is well known, Greece has a huge presence in the maritime sector and a great tradition in the ship repairer, who along with logistics and logistics could be the driving force for the whole maritime service area, as well as for the economy. As we submitted in the Minutes, the EBRD estimates that the above complex of Piraeus can add EUR 18 billion to the economy, while the "ERNST & YOUNG" increases its estimates for the Greek shipping complex, in total, to 25.9 billion with five hundred thousand jobs. As has been said, the Piraeus complex, combined with the upgrading of the railway infrastructure we have made in recent years, could be competitive with other gates of entry of the European Union, such as Rotterdam or Italy, where the Chinese have already made an agreement with Trieste, except for Naples. It is worth noting here that the Dutch complex, with six ports, but mainly that of Rotterdam, has a turnover, a turnover, a turnover, a turnover, a turnover, an annual, EUR 59 billion, in 2019, as we will present in the Minutes. It has 59 billion, when Piraeus has only 149 million euros. It's incomprehensible. In view of the fact that the Greek fleet is much larger than the Dutch fleet, we believe that the Piraeus complex has a very large margin of development, as long as there is finally a government with a vision of these objectives and not simply adjusting agreements to the detriment of Greece and to the benefit of the foreigners concerned. Finally, seeing the unacceptable convention today - which we will certainly vote against - we would like to draw attention to the other ten important ports in our country, which have been awarded to the TIAD, and are also being promoted, despite the fact that they are a strategic chapter for a maritime and island country such as Greece. In addition, there is a great financial irregularity, so that it is not described differently. In particular, the ports, like all the land transferred to the Supreme Court, were brought there without any valuation, which has also been highlighted by the Court of Auditors in the state' accounts. Based on their accounting value - as we will present in the Minutes - exactly as stated in the State Report in 2018, all ten ports are estimated at around EUR 112 million. Only at 112 million of Greece's ten major ports, which is impossible to do, are they profitable, although this sort of underestimation has been seen in many other public fixeds. In any case, they should be properly valued, as should all the public's assets, transferred to the Supreme Court of Foreign Affairs. We must also have their financial data, which we did not have, for example, on the fourteen airports in FRAPORT before the concession - we did not have them - which we have literally given to the Germans with a scandalous - literally scandalous contract - and on their additional funding from our own banks and from our own NSRFs, giving them, recently, 177 million for the pandemic. Isn't it a shame? In conclusion, of course, we are voting against the bill, and we feel that the procedure followed is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. I have to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of a criminal prosecution warrant against a Member. We continue with Mr. Georgios Logiadis from Mera25. We would like to convey our warmest condolences to the loss of his father, the Secretary-General, Mr Varoufakis. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to express my warmest condolences to our President, Yiannis Varoufakis, who today lost his father. Be well to remember him, as well as his mother. As a Member of Parliament, I should like to begin by referring to the recent, major and disastrous earthquakes in the region of Kastelios Heraklion in the municipality where the new international airport is being built. While the seismic stimulation had begun for months in this area, giving many daily earthquakes of about 3.5 rhetoric, there was no preparation all this time for an expected and much greater earthquake. It is also the absence of social structures for the psychological support of citizens. This had to be the primary concern, because what an earthquake needs, whose house has basically collapsed, its most sacred element, is his psychological support and support. And I have not seen anything in any way in this whole municipality about it. On other hygiene issues, toilets and showers are nonexistent, as well as until last night there was a lack of ranch and mattresses, i.e. self-evident things. On the other hand, it is touching and shocking to involve and volunteer citizens and businesses in doing so, or whatever the state has not done. From pure luck, we didn't mourn dead because the earthquake took place at 9:20 in the morning. If it had happened night, we'd have too many burnt-outs and victims. Where had the state been controlled so long, despite the many earthquakes? Nowhere. In this municipality, where Heraklion's new airport is being built, there is only one - I stress, only one civil engineer in the town's town planning. This is the depreciation of the municipalities as a result of the memoranda signed by all three governments of PASOK - KINAL, New Democracy and SYRIZA. It is memorials that impose huge and unbearable primary surpluses which, in order to achieve, amongst other things, the entire public sector is completely subordinated and dismantled. And now the leaders of these parties are coming, for pure and only communication reasons, supposedly, to be able to stand up to the people, those who brought him here in the situation that he is signing the memorandums. All three come with crocodile tears and affliction of intelligence. In conclusion, I would like to stress the following: First, there is the pending judicial decisions of the inhabitants of Kastelli against the company 'TERNA', the national contractor manufacturing the airport, for environmental reasons. Secondly, the seismologist and director of the Athens geodynamic institute, Akis Tselentis, points out to the state and construction company of the new airport the need to upgrade the earthquake shield and not to the one concerning any conventional construction, on the basis of existing earthquake regulations, because the area is adjacent to two active breaches. And what does the state do about these two issues? Absolutely nothing. The President-in-Office took the responsibility, again with his statements, to the citizens. On the first issue, they are pending and judiciary decisions are pending. For the second, no further energy upgrading of the earthquake of the new airport has been done. Now, the current draft law concerns the ratification of an agreement amending the concession contract, which was made on 24 June 2016 between the Greek State and the PPA SA. The PPA, the port of Piraeus, the largest port of the country, has been granted public property to ‘COSCO’. He's been privatized, sold out. The current agreement was made between the co-legislative ministers and the Chinese 'COSCO' where all the entities were ignored, as the President of the Association of Enterprises of the Shipbuilding Industry Mr Vassilis Kanakakis said. This is an agreement of enormous importance, with too many consequences, but it is still coming under secret procedures and - I stress - in secret from Parliament. This convention has been signed by the Greek Government and the 'COSCO' and the House today is only called upon to ratify it or not to ratify it, for nothing else. I note that 'COSCO' in 2016 had promised more than EUR 600 million in the port of Piraeus, half of which were compulsory and the other half optional. But ultimately it is a question of whether to date its investments have exceeded EUR 100 million. In fact, some of them, which have already been completed, have been challenged by the port users in terms of the actual amount of the investment. The more important the importance of the agreement, the faster the procedures. The reason for each of us is even the simplest citizen. We, Mer25 consider the positions of each local society as a cornerstone for every fellow citizen. The Mayor of Piraeus, Mr. Moralis, said that the port extends to four municipalities. All four municipalities opposed the privatisation of the port and the way it was done. The Mayor of Keratini - Drapetsonas, Mr Christos Brittanos, stressed that it is only for consultation and that it is nothing but a consultation on the eyes of our obligation. He also said you didn't hear anything. Mayor Perama, Mr.Ioannis Lagudakis, also opposed the government to transfer an additional 16% of the shares in the PPA to the Chinese 'COSCO', which will now hold 67% of the PPA. This change in concession has been said only for the benefit of 'COSCO' and to the detriment of the public interest. And finally, the Mayor of Salamis, Mr. Panagopoulos at the same wavelength, referred to the protection of the archaeological site where the Battle of Salamis took place from the "COSCO" projects within this archaeological site. The operators also pointed out that you were giving the port authority to the investor, the Chinese 'COSCO', while the State supervision of the port regulator, which has not become aware or recipient of the text of the agreed contract of concession as processed by the relevant ministries with accelerating procedures, should be maintained. RAL was not placed on this agreement. However, you have done the same with the airports, where you have given private individuals, the very sensitive area of airport safety, a bill which Merra25 has also voted against. The safety of airports and ports should be under state control, for national reasons, at the critical strategic geographical point of Greece. These independent authorities, they're only independent. They are purely dependent on each owner, such as the AIA from the Troika, the Civil Aviation Authority from the German ‘FRAPORT’, the Port Regulatory Authority from ‘COSCO’ and goes by saying. State IX, House IX, Mitsotakis S.A. All of this today's agreement, as well as any agreement - a contract of the Supreme Council of the GOI with the individual, to whom the GOI grants public property is subject to the confidentiality clause, which you have all signed in 2016. So the Greek people will never know what happens behind their backs in secret. And because you can still say that it is all the fault of Varoufakis, who, of course, has not signed any of this, no memorandum, no secret agreement, we challenge you all to bring the 2015 bankruptcy file together to the House to find out exactly what happened then. If you don't, you're afraid, you're tempted. Why is that? As a parliamentarian, I would like to point out that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy recently came to Crete and announced the financing of Greek infrastructure projects. Ports as public property have been granted, committed, as we know, to the Supreme Court. So the Greek people, the taxpayer, will pay to upgrade assets that they do not actually own, since they belong to the Supreme Court and then sell them to individuals. That's what's going on. As MERA25, I will not dwell any further on the negative articles of this agreement that we are discussing, whether it is good or bad, obviously handy and unspeakable. Because right from the outset we are basically the only ones who have not signed memos and granted public property to anyone. His private property, ladies and gentlemen, can each of us do whatever he wants. But our public property for which all our ancestors have shed their blood has no right to grant it. It should be stressed that ‘the concession of the public land of the country’ is strictly legal and of a character and means a binding concession of the exclusive use and economic exploitation of the reserved area only by the GOI which has the right to it, namely, it is solely responsible for its unilateral powers to make use of and use the land as it deems to be, without any municipality and any other public authority being bound by it. Therefore, in this case, the concession is a disguised form of mortgage, enslaving the Greek public area. This concession constitutes a quasi-blocking of public property and national sovereignty and refers to an offence of national treason. For us, the only solution is the break, the veto, no. The veto as it is institutionalised by the European Union. So not in today's draft law, which we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Ragussa, has requested the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Following on from what we have said during committee meetings and what our rapporteur, Mr Santorinios, has said today, I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and members of the government, by addressing Mr Stourras and Mr Plakkatakis, telling them that I think that after the meetings of the committees after what we have said, you are absolutely worthy of your destiny. We told you without a sign of criminalisation of the country's political life, take back this "fraud" contract for the Greek State, for the pirate society, for workers, for businesses. But there - in this House today - for the ratification of this 'fraud' convention. It also suits the other thing our people say, 'the bad of your head'. What are we, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's plenary and, above all, of the majority, the facts on which we are today discussing the ratification of an amendment to this convention? A transparent 2016 contract that set a decisive condition for ‘COSCO’ to acquire full control of the port of Piraeus. What was that one and decisive term? It will take place within five years, five years, namely, and not more, eleven compulsory investments. The result? That's disappointing. With whose responsibility is the crucial theme, the tamperiere? Whose responsibility? We have told you that not on the basis of what we are saying, but on the basis of what the reports of independent engineers and other services have certified, the sole responsibility for the vast majority of the investments that have not been made has 'COSCO', 'OP-COSCO' and no one else. Neither public nor God himself nor force violence nor much more citizens. How does that prove? It is demonstrated by all the reports by the independent engineer in any case on the progress of compulsory investments and the responsibility of the PPA - COSCO: "Weak to date to proceed with temporary acceptance", on investment number 2. For investment, compulsory number 3, the independent engineer in any case: ‘The significant delay in the final decision by the PPA’. Number 4: ‘The significant delay of the PPA in the preparation of final tenders’, ‘The delay of the PPA in the evaluation of tenders’, for compulsory investment number 5 and so on. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is there only the independent engineer who certifies this? For the misery you have committed, would you bring to Parliament the allegedly false argument of the responsibility of the citizens for the delays that you have in your own head as if they had been done? On the issues you have said, and Mr Stavros and Mr Plakkatakis, a decision by the Region of Attica on 27 January 2021. Title: ‘The imposition of administrative sanctions on PPA S.A.’. From the region of 2021, in other words from the Patoulis region, where did it decide in January 2021? "In accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of Law 1650/1986 as amended by Article 21 of Law 4014/2011 and in force, we are deciding on the imposition of administrative sanctions of 6 thousand euros (EUR 6,000) in PPA S.A. for infringements of environmental legislation’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does the government claim and how does it deceive the pirate society and the House and the Court of Auditors? He claims that it is not the 'COSCO' to blame. This is not the reason why you can come to present this contract today. However, since we have also informed you of these documents in committee, precisely because we do not want to criminalize the political life of the place and we wanted to prevent you from being definitively and with proof of the fraud you have in committing these criminal offences, then there is no longer any excuse on your part. And what do you call it? You said that in the Convention and said so to the Court of Auditors. In fact, when we gave it to you in committee to prevent the evil you are going to do in Piraeus, in Piraeus 1 and 2, Piraeus, you reacted with a political argument worthy of it - and I will then do so - but also with two proverbial reactions from Mr Plakatakis and one from Mr Stakora in this Chamber yesterday. What did Mr Plakkatakis say, trying to defend in this hefty accusation that you have cheated on the Court of Auditors, that you have deceived society and now you are going to deceive Members as well? It says: Who told you that you - by addressing me - can say that it is the 'COSCO' that is the fault of the 'COSCO'? Such decisions can only be made by the referee court. But if only the arbitration tribunal makes such decisions, then how did you decide that responsibility does not exist in any case on the side of 'COSCO'? The second reaction, which, of course, Mr Plakkatakis, went beyond your reaction, was Mr Stakoura, who said yesterday in a proverbial manner. When he reread the passage from the Court of Auditors' decision, which says what ladies and gentlemen? I repeat now, ladies and gentlemen, because we are in plenary and many colleagues have never heard what the Court of Auditors' decision says. It states: ‘In view of the end of the five-year period referred to above, it has not been completed by PPA SA,’ i.e. by 'COSCO', the implementation of all the above agreed investments, eleven of the number, without the company's fault, writes the decision - 'as the Greek State concludes'. And is the Minister of Finance coming here yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, and what does he say a proverb? He says this is a court judgment. But aren't you embarrassed at all? Aren't you embarrassed at all? A court ruling stating that the State has agreed that it is not the responsibility of the ‘COSCO’, do you characterise it as an assessment of the court? What the Minister for Finance has done in the country must not have a precedent, ladies and gentlemen. If Mr. Santorinier, you have anyone in Rhodes, whoever eats a sentence of ten years doesn't say he's been convicted of by the court. Well, come on, it was an evaluatory court judge. What's going on? Nothing's going on. And is it true what he said beyond that it's proverbial and really reaches the limits of ridiculousness, or is it lies at the same time beyond ridiculousity? It's a lie. Why? Firstly, in Decision 381, what does the Court of Auditors say? Do I repeat what he says in his decision? ‘In this case, the data in the file show the following: In view of the end of the above five-year period, without being completed by PPA S.A., the implementation of all the above-mentioned agreed investments due to external factors (see Opinion).’ There is therefore also an opinion submitted to the Court of Auditors by either the Ministry or the GOI ‘not in the company’s sphere of influence’. And that's evidence of the file says the court ruling. And the proverbary Minister of Finance comes here and says: “Come on, what is this? A judgement of the court’. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you said something else, Mr. Plakatakis. Has the Court of Auditors given its approval in the framework of the pre-contractual audit on the contract currently requested by Members of the New Democracy on their own and isolated? Has he given it to her? He has not given it and you have concealed it from your Members. It has ratified only in the framework of the pre-contractual review the contract between ‘COSCO’ and the GOI. The contract that you are asking today to take the vote of your Members has not been ratified by the Court of Auditors, because when it comes to the matter, but you are so rough, so irresponsible and so inadequate to serve the public interest when we give it to you - we have given it to you in committee - you are not even interested in reading it. What does the Court of Auditors' Decision 382 of the Court of Auditors say about this convention that is currently being ratified by Parliament? ‘For these reasons, it is irresponsible to introduce the document of the Secretary-General for Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance to check the submitted (Protocol No 40416).’ He has unacceptably introduced it and returned it to you and has not agreed to give the agreement under the pre-contractual control. I am tabling the Court of Auditors Decision 382. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not take this seriously and without any excuse after the information we have given you by the committees, you have committed serious criminal offences. And now I would like to go beyond this part and into the political argument with which you have come to this debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some time from my dentistry, Mr. President. What was your main political argument, which you have made on several occasions? That we had two streets. One way is by this convention, fraud that we call it. The other way was to get in trouble, get in court, get in trouble with delays, etc. Is it true there were only two streets? Halima's fairy tales. You're lying. Why? Because there was a third street. And what was that third street? It was simply a friendly way to see the delays, yes, to negotiate an extension perhaps for the implementation of these investments, especially where there could be investment that they did not go ahead, as they did without the fault of 'COSCO'. But what was the third street? Don't give them 16% of shares. That was the third route that could serve the public interest and you did not follow it. You could negotiate extensions, you could negotiate friendlyly and keep 16% for the Greek state. Why is 16% critical for the public? Because, ladies and gentlemen, the 'COSCO' after 2016, after signing the agreement, manifested some very serious expansionist attitudes, harmful to the public interest, the economic and social and the port and the city, which had no foundation in the contract and which was fighting and fighting them all the time. Show the desire and the pursuit to build a shipyard, build a mall, build a fourth pier. It showed total indifference to protect the environment and archaeological sites and, of course, totally indifferent to the conditions of competition, it set up various monopolies. What does it mean to make mall from PPA? Is that how we call it made mall? It means destruction of all small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and workers working in these enterprises of Piraeus and the wider region and of Piraeus II. What does it mean to make a shipyard the 'COSCO' that seeks? It means destruction of the ship repair, it's not like we're going to make a shipyard. It destroys the ship repair, the branch on which the main economy of Piraeus is seated decades now. What does it mean to do fourth pier? It means ending the keracini, whoever lives, that's where he's gonna get out. The world's fortunes will be denounced. It also means that ship repair, which employs thousands of workers, will be destroyed for one more reason. That is why it is absolutely crucial that 16% of the public should be kept in control, because it was the last shield with which society, the government, the parliament, could defend itself against these harmful, injurious expansionary monopolies of 'COSCO'. So by delivering 16%, in fact, you hand over the only and final weapon, nuclear weapon, which the society and the political forces of the country had in its hands. Basically, you hand over our last sovereign right. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the government and, in my humble opinion, fellow Members of the House, at the latest you have a chance, at the latest, to serve the public interest: to withdraw this convention - fraud, to renegotiate with 'COSCO', to see the dates and, in order to bring an agreement that will give them 16% on the basis of the 2016 agreement, to obtain from 'COSCO' legally, Mr Plakatakis: Firstly, it will not claim the construction of a yard. Secondly, to give her 16%, she will commit that she will not claim the fourth pier. Thirdly, that he will not claim the mall construction. With legal commitments that will be made either by the 'COSCO', not by you now, flaming things, that the ministers will come out here and say we will not let one happen, we will not let the other happen. We are talking about the legal commitments of the company in or out of the contract, which will be binding and about the fact that it will not do mall and about the fact that it will not make a shipyard and about the fact that it will not proceed to the fourth pier and that it will respect the archaeological sites, the environment and will cease to set up monopolies. If you want to serve the public interest, this strategy would be followed. You would say: we are in favour of investment. There are mixed responsibilities. We are here to overcome them, to extend them, because we want the investments and what they bring, but, gentlemen of 'COSCO', you will commit to everything that is outside the 2016 Convention and which you seek to stop seeking them. This would in fact serve the public interest. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing with this report - there is absolutely no doubt that, as far as the catastrophic events are concerned from now on in the Municipality of Keratini and the Municipality of Perama with the construction and construction of a fourth pier, with everything that is disastrous about the ship repair, with the possibility that the 'COSCO' might go on to the fourth pier or build a shipyard, with the catastrophic events for the commercial world, for the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and thousands of workers from the construction of malls, for everything that happens at the expense of the archaeological sites of Salamis, Piraeus, but also the environment, will only be the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the ratification of this particular agreement, which literally breaks out the one and only weapon we have in our hands, in order to defend the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr Ragosi. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, will we then join the speaker list?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u75	Immediately afterwards, yes, the list of speakers opens. Of course, in the intervening period, those parliamentary representatives have not spoken. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to ask myself in advance, son, what country we live in. It's unbelievable what happens with the three accomplices of the memorials. The three 'criminal groups' - within introductory words the 'criminal groups', in order not to be mocked, I am referring to their political dimension - are fighting today for what they are voting on. So, what are we talking about today? For the concession of 16% of the Piraeus Port Authority from New Democracy to 'COSCO', that is, to the Chinese, we are not being fooled. However, the essence is that 74% has been given by PASOK in 2011 to the TIAD of strangers - that is the truth - which sold 51% in 2016 on SYRIZA to the Chinese. Hold on a second. I remember George Papandreou on Karamanlis, if I am not mistaken, who went forth himself, Papandreou of PASOK - a life empty is the benches, I don't know, where they have gone, vote, have a conference? - So they took steps themselves, and when they became government, they sold the port! You know, this is the tragicity and you show an arrogant attitude and position, which is really the investment in the short memory of the Greeks. And I'm talking about SYRIZA's sieges and the pasochus. The Government spokesman, Mr. Economou, said to us the day before yesterday: "Tsipras voted to sell the money to the lenders." A statement by your government representative is this. He did it on a channel. I mean, because Tsipras voted... SYRIZA, we should have said those too. Nowadays they come out on the bench and yell, whatever you sell, you do. But they signed it! I mean, they sign, the others sell. They're probably annoyed because people are selling and they didn't sell. What a sense, indeed, of irrationality that I cannot understand! Of course it's not their fault. It is the people who do not understand that SYRIZA, NW and KINAL are the same interior troika that votes together! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is simply one who plays the role of opposition when he is in opposition and when he becomes a government, that plays the role of the government. We're talking about actors, really about actors, and it bothers me, and I call it inviolable. Of course, politics needs the hypocritical cosmos too, but you've gotten over Hollywood's best actress here! Today the SYRIZA people are protesting because the New Democracy is selling. If it were the New Democracy, it would protest because SYRIZA is selling. Well, that's not reasonable. Let's take a look at geopolitical games and geo-economics. Let's get some on the news. What's the matter with the port? Why do the Chinese want the port? Have you ever understood what "Piraeus port" means? None of you ever understood it in here, or you don't want to understand it. The port of Piraeus is the gateway to Europe for Chinese goods. Because until the Chinese make their way to silk, they need a port to carry their goods and a closer point than Piraeus from Suez there is no more, my child. What can we do now? And instead of taking advantage of this Greece as an ace, as an ace to blackmail China if it wants to invest in Greece really and not buy cheaply, we give it for free to make Chinese dudes with monkey products and anything else. What can I say now? I do not know, in other words, at some point, the problem is the surface of positions, opinions, concepts of the geo-economic, geopolitical environments in the world. We have a huge conflict between the United States and China. If you're dealing with America, why do you sell the port to the Chinese? Since you're costing behind American jewelry, why are you selling the port to the Chinese for free? So there is a problem in the Greek-American relations that you see as important and at the same time give the Chinese free, without getting a real investment in the country from China. Where's the ace in our country's sleeve? I could talk hours endless about this big issue, but we are not government anyway. Yannis is buying, he's drinking. You are SYRIZA - New Democracy the same thing. SYRIZA votes about 60% of the New Democracy bills and makes opposition! When you vote 60% of the New Democracy bills and the PASOK 80% of the New Democracy bills, it means we have a good government, a good one, or you can't criticize them. Since the government's good, how do you criticize them? While we vote for a maximum of 35% -40%, but with constructive criticism and proposals. We have something that happened in the morning and we need to analyse it. This morning, the State Department announced indefinitely the prolongation of Greece's defence cooperation - the United States for the bases. For the first time in time, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the American job is confirmed in the worst way. The agreement on the bases was reached each time by one year. Now you as the government of Mr Mitsotakis, New Democracy, commit the country to the next - I do not know how much, five, ten, fifteen - years, indefinitely, for the US bases, without winning anything. You give them bases on Alexandroupolis, Kavala, islands, Souda, you give them everything to the Americans and you get nothing! You're the shame of loser! You're losers! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're not win-win and that makes me angry! And because the fireworks were over and the dark fell for the famous defensive agreement with the French that the first Greek Solution and its president personally pointed out to the Prime Minister of the country to buy Rafale and took... [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] ...which the Greek Solution and the President personally pointed out to the President of the New Democracy to take the French ships that are better and better because our admirals wanted them, he said, "Take them up", but now he comes to tell you the gaps that this story has. We as a Greek Solution learn by reading and reading and learning. You guys in here with fireworks are involved. Other ‘agreement’ with France and other ‘Convention’ or ‘international terms’. Totally different term the ‘agreement’ and completely different term the ‘Convention’. Now listen to the phrase one in the Greek-French Agreement. Article 1: ‘For their full implementation...’. This is ambiguity, and what will be said 'the full implementation of what we have agreed'? We can therefore say in conclusion that there are creative ambiguities within the agreement. It's not clear about the deal, and I'll tell you with real circumstances in a little while. But listen to the worst, because this is where the essence of things comes in. It says that the two countries are cooperating. I understand that. That's the deal. I'll quote it in the Minutes to testify it here for it to exist in history. The agreement does not confirm France's defensive assistance in the event of an attack by a South African country. Because in Article 3 and Article 8, it is clear, explicit, that the commitment of Greece and France to favour NATO first for any involvement, despite the joint agreement between the two parties in France and Greece. In other words, if Turkey, a NATO member country, attacks Greece, does not commit France, while taking about 10 billion from the Greeks, to help defensively. And this is a personal failure of the Prime Minister of the country, who did nothing to bind the French. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's what I was asking him, not to take weapons like an indigenous man without any defensive assistance. There's nowhere. Where NATO is involved, there's a problem. Under cult is the deal, because NATO is a well-established arm. Understood. Don't make fun of the world. The Prime Minister himself at the time when the neo-democrats, trolls, Twitter, and Facebook applauded the great deal of agreement you made and talked about and insisted on differences in maritime zones. In the maritime areas, Prime Minister and Mr Placiotakis, include the kayalitis zone, air and sea. If the gynaecitis zone is included, it is a unilateral exercise of the country's right and you do not negotiate it with anyone. How does the Greek Prime Minister make such statements? You're not negotiating unilateral rights. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Prime Minister spoke of retreats in French at the time we took the ships and we were about to become "Miaulides", "Canarides", to become all Admirals with the French, "Greece - France Alliance", "we will bail against the Turks". At the same time, the Prime Minister on French television is talking about one-sided speeches and, above all, about mutual retreats. And I ask you. Do I get guns to retreat? What am I going to retreat to? The reduced influence invoked by the Turks? Is that where you're going to retreat? And here's another Greek solution justice. We talked and voted against this story about Egypt and Italy. You gave a reduced influence, i.e. reduced national sovereignty to Italians and Egyptians. What do the Turks say now? Based on this agreement you signed, let's make a promise and go to The Hague for reduced Kastelorizo effect. This is called by two words 'national betrayal'. Anyone who understands it understands it. It's called "national betrayal"! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Prime Minister asks for retreats. What's that? Did he tell us? The Turks claim. Where are we going to retreat? Also, everyone's worst. Because you have all the means with you. You're savouring them all, you're writing them all to 'leaving' you. And I say it raw. The Greek Government hides from it, the Prime Minister hides that the illegal Turkish pact between Turkey and Libya has been legitimised by the "window" of the illegal turmoil pact. So the reason for the hypotonic reaction east of Crete in the last few days is due there. In the UN list of entries officially in the UN Bulletin 104221 at the Oceanographic Affairs and Law Department of the Sea and the Legal Affairs Office, the Turkish agreement is officially published. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I will tell you once again that you are liars. You're a liar! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You lie to the Greek people, because you do not defend yourself, because you do nothing. You're lying, unfortunately. And I'm not talking to the MPs. I know that parliamentarians have patriotic feelings, many of them MPs. But, they're afraid of just proportional. If there are elections, the seventies will enter the House. And the rest of what will they do? That's their problem. Their party discipline creates a mental turmoil in their national patriotic feelings. Please don't vote for what the government brings you. They're lying to you. You're committing national crimes. I challenged the Greek Prime Minister here and said to him, "Tell me, do you agree with the statement "Not Greece will mining?" And she didn't answer me. But he went to the UN in the United States and said: "The oil is a controversy of the past century for a good that loses its value." This man, the Greek Prime Minister, has really bad advisers. The Greek Prime Minister cannot say that gas loses its value, which is the transitional natural mineral against carbon dioxide. And I ask him: does he not know the report of the European Centre of Excellence submitted to Deutsche Bank and speak of EUR 300 billion potential profits for the country from the extraction of natural gas? A shock paper. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. The report by the 'DEUTSCHE BANK', by the German bank, is here. Whoever wants to read it. When it gives Greek Prime Minister 300 billions an hour when the Greek people are hungry, while the Greeks have no money, they don't get their pensions, while we don't pay pensions to our pensioners, when they do something like this, emptied of 300 billion plus 270 billion for the lignites - it's about 570 billion euros, money from the Greeks - and throws them at'spirits', then it commits a national crime. Nothing more, nothing less. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm outraged. I'll say it straight away. Maybe it's our ideological difference. You're outdated parties. You operate based on the logic of the 1980s and 1990s, based on the concept of "We belong to the West". This is not a realistic concept, but it is not a political concept. It's a misconception. It is a behavior that comes from a lifelong past between two poles: the Soviet Union and the Americans of the Cold War. This concept of "Western" really belongs to the denial of thought. He denys the thought, undermines the effort to adapt to the real international environment that has changed. There aren't two poles, there's too many poles. Yeah, there are heterogeneous relationships. Strong countries, such as America and Germany, have heterogeneous relations with countries like Greece. Data. But now there is India and China and France. It's not monopoly, it's not bipolar, it's multipolar. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Don't belong to any west. You will be, as the Greek Solution says, where it belongs to the national interest of the country, the national interests of the country, the national interests of the Greeks. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I fear that the main priority of the Greek political system is not the integrity and territorial sovereignty of our country. Unfortunately, I'm saying it. But it is at all costs that the survival of the same ones in ministerial chairs, in immigrant parliamentarians, is at all costs, so that they can be conscientious or politically involved. Politics is not an end in itself, it is not a request for a chair of a Member or a Minister. This separated by the problems of society system must change yesterday. We're the new one, you're the outdated one. We're going to change the whole system, make it new, because the antiquated one belongs to yesterday. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members are not chosen and elected by the Greek people to represent the Greek people. You're wrong. Because you party MPs first become representatives of your parties and then become representatives of the people. You're wrong. The MPs are elected, not to represent Greeks and Greece, but to represent each Greek separately, to represent Greeks and Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] This is the difference of our philosophy and we appeal to each of the Greeks separately: Greek, it's political insanity to insist on the same mistake waiting for another result. Compositely, it's wrong to do exactly the same thing all the time, to vote for the least evil. It's wrong to choose him so he won't come out. Greek, you expect a better result that never comes, because it comes the worst and then dark. That is why we have a reproduction of the vicious political system. So the solution came, the only solution, the Greek solution, the patriotic solution, the Greek solution to the Greeks, which will give way to this dark path. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We therefore ask that 55% of the Greeks who did not vote for people who are disappointed, who are unjustified, who are sad, who are left alone, go on a Sunday, one Sunday to give themselves and their children, and will give them thousands of days, years, better days, happy days for Greek and Greek. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I want to do a little parentheses before I close. I denounce all the parties of the Greek Parliament today because they have never heard the Greek solution. We have told you, ladies and gentlemen of the parties, especially the Left and the False Left: stop going to school! Stop checking the schools! Get the parties out of the schools! Outside the parties, out of the flawless ideologies from the schools! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] School is a place of learning, discipline and education. It's not a party transaction site. It's either primary school, high school, high school, or college, outside parties from the schools. We have seen the tragic effects. What did you do? You reborn from his ashes the palm trees, the Nazis! With bad choices and by sharing party brochures you regenerate the Nazis! It's your fault! You're pouring oil into the fire, gentlemen of the Left! You're doing party proselytism. It incites the snake's egg and Nazism regenerates in our country! Far from Greece oligarchical, authoritarian, fascist, nazi regimes! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You must be ashamed of yourself! Take the parties out of the schools and universities, the Greek Solution has been shouting since the first moment. Shame on you all is getting the Nazis out and greeting Nazis. Good for you! Good for you! You did that, too. They were destroyed by the Greek people and you show them again by the windows. And journalists come out from the morning and refer to some new Nazis. Let's all get serious. No more fun. The parties away from any universities and schools. When the Greek Solution governs - and that day is close - and when the sun of optimism for Greece really rises, the parties will be dismantled by schools and universities! There won't be a single party. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'd like to talk a little bit about the economy. A state, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be viewed as serious, strong and firm, must have basic rules: it must have a GDP strong and strong, balance of trade positive, energy self-sufficiency, food self-sufficiency, red loans of businesses and private individuals inexistently, deficits of minimal and public property. Tell me the state of New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA what it has to be considered a strong and powerful state? You refined Greece, humiliated the Greeks, humiliated this entire nation of the Greeks with the wrong economic choices and continue to make mistakes. The bad news, though, is that you have the means with you. You mislead the world with paid means of millions. The channels have taken 200-300 million so far, now that we're talking. Let the Greek people know. They've taken money so they can melt Mr. Mitsotakis and his ministers and every day I can see a stasis of ministers from morning to night in the channels. How do they do that? There are ten ways of misleading: First way. Reversal of attention or delirium. Expected news presented as news to come after the solution. So, what are you doing? You are stirring up a problem in the media that there is the next day the Minister comes and gives the solution. And we're telling the Minister how handsome the government is! Secondly, it is appropriate to create problems at the same time providing solutions from the Prime Minister himself. I heard that, the Prime Minister gave the solution. Why? This is the communication policy of all North Korean authoritarian states. Understood! In the minds of the voters of the Greek Solution, these do not go through! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Thirdly, you're grading unpleasant news so the mass can hope for. That'll pass, too. It'll pass, and it'll get better. Fourthly, transferring targeted changes to the future. The possibility of accepting this is increasing because the citizen is accustomed to the idea, as was the case with the pandemic. The pandemic - big problem - will pass. We got used to the idea, we'll make the vaccine, we'll make a fifth vaccine, and the sixth vaccine, and the eighth vaccine, forgetting the Prime Minister got bound by a letter that we're done with a vaccine. Now we have both a third and a fourth and a fifth. That's how the New Democracy works. It reminds me, I'll say it directly now, authoritarian regimes. Fifth, speaking to the masses as if they were young children. They feel similarly insignificant, and it is easier to displease them. You're treating the Greek people like a stupid little kid. I know the state better than you do. I know the Minister and the Prime Minister better than you do. The scientist knows better than you do. You'll do what we tell you. The scientist, however, is greedy. When you enter "GENERATION" you see 1 million each, 700 thousand the other, 500 thousand the other, just to do the dirty work yours. Sixth, emphasis on emotion, not logic. This prevents critical thinking. Maintaining society and citizens in ignorance. Masses should not be able to understand. So all this is because you're misled by the paid media to the Greeks. Eighth, manipulation of people's thoughts to convince them that it is modest. PASOK did it in the past. "Together we ate them." You gave the annoying syndrome to the Greeks that he ate with you. The Greek didn't eat them with you. If from 100 euros the Greek man ate 10, the 90s were eaten by your best friends and by SYRIZA and the New Democracy and KINAL. The economic elite of Kolonakis, which shares billions of Greeks there, needs to be dismantled tomorrow morning! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ninth, mutation of resistance to feelings of misconscious conscience. Without any energy, there is no defense. When society is collectively convinced that it is foolish, corrupt and incompetent, so guilty of suffering, it is completely neutralized. That's what you did. You have undermined the resistance of society. You've made the Greek annoying. You've made him the Greek petty crook - you're a crook, you're a crook, you're a thief - and he feels guilty. All of this, along with the tenth which is knowledge of people better than themselves. Here, friends and friends, I'm going to stay a little short of something we're all getting past and I'm closing up, Mr. President. Last night I heard the President of the small supermarket - not the big ones - saying: "The multinational companies that have asylum and immunity in Greece sell 15% more expensive food in Greece than in Germany, France and England. Instead of raising the phone, the Prime Minister himself - because 15% more increased in the supermarket means 40% -50% in the Greek wallet - and looking to find the issue. No similar products can be sold in Greece more precisely by 70% and 80% than in Germany, France, Italy. Put the filth to the end! Put an end to the cartels! Put an end to the multinationals! This can't go on! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Greek is hungry and can't get milk for his child because it's more expensive than Germany. In Germany, milk does 0.70 and 0.80 and 0.90 and it does 1.30 and 1.40 and 1.50, as everyone wants. If we take it from the multinational 15% more expensive is the supermarket telling you than the Germans, won't we put a 30% on? But how would people know about economy? They really break the economic structure of the country. Only five hundred fifty businesses in Greece employ two hundred fifty workers, Minister only. Only five hundred and fifty, not more. 95% employs less than nine. That's what Mr. Hatzidosios says. They kill small and medium-sized enterprises and the Minister comes out and he's glad. "We will not give the small ones loans. They're few. We will give the many." Who are the many? A few are, with more money in the pocket. And it really causes laughter, remembrance, to hear ministers be so ignorant. Statement by the Minister of the New Democracy: “There are workers who want to be free partners. I've met them." Be free partners, so they don't have a contract. Some aliens I imagine from Mars. Second Minister's statement: They're coming out on the channels and they're saying it. ‘Absorbing tax-reducing revaluations and contributions’. What about the poor guy who doesn't pay taxes or the one who doesn't have to pay the insurance contribution? What about the unemployed? A declaration by the Minister, the lenders' 'pad': 'We talked about non-funding small businesses and closure'. Christ and God bless you! Minister in the vertebral column of the Greek economy, in small and medium-sized enterprises, spoke, he says, for not funding them. Instead of financing small and medium-sized enterprises, incentivising them to work, taking nine, ten, eleven, fifteen workers, to have an economy, their best friends, the fifty-five oligars! If he does not notice the five hundred oligarchs, who will be noticed by the New Democracy, as will the other parties involved with the fewer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u77	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u78	Two more minutes, Mr President, please. So I say this: The President of the Greek Solution has never met with any lyric masters, with any shipowners, with any canalarchs. Let the rest of the parties in this House say that they have never met and had no coffee, nor have they eaten with them. And I'll never do it! It is incomprehensible what is happening in Greek society. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To conclude, there is also a fourth statement, Minister. Minister: "There are no big differences between Greece and the European Union." Minister said that we have no disputes with the European Union. Has man ever been to Europe? Has it come out to see how Europeans live and how Greeks live? Fifthly, 'Our public debt has only increased as a percentage of GDP'. Well, that's what he learns, guys? Let Starios have them do them a seminar. It says that our public debt has only increased as a percentage of GDP. Hasn't he seen that we lost 70 billion? He doesn't understand it? People don't understand? Minister: 'The government's successful economic policy leads to price increases'. Where have you seen this written? What financial book? Tell me about it. So the country - and I close - is sinking into debts, deficits. The government refers to triumphs and is a government that reminds of the Titanic. So, before the iceberg conflict, all the good guys were in first place, you know, like the ministers here, drinking champagne with the master, making jokes, smiling, saying theirs and they didn't realize they were immersed. So is the government. And in the next election this government will sink. That's why the media are inviolable and, whenever needed, they fly a survey. Because the intubation needs good oxygen, oxygen, so there can be polls and parrots, journalists mocking them all day long. In conclusion, I will say that you have made Greece the most expensive country in Europe. We were telling you about storing oil or buying oil a year and a half ago. I said it here. Here! I said it! Now the oil is scoring. If you did the self-evident thing and bought oil earlier, along with natural gas and storage, we'd be gainful. But you're so naive, you're so ignorant, you're so incompetent that you don't know what entrepreneurship means. Because "operation" means that in difficult times I prepare, so that when the easiest moments come, I can win.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u80	This is how the administration should be exercised. More accurate current in Europe, more expensive web in Europe, more expensive mobile in Europe, the slowest internet in Europe, more expensive clothes and shoes, more expensive all kinds of food, more expensive 10 basic shopping in the supermarket. You're expensive. You cost Greeks very expensive as an administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u81	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u82	You are a government of servants, of the oligarchs, of the economist elite. You look at your pocket and your friends' pocket and not Greek's pocket. We demand, we shout, we fish: First the Greeks, first Greece, a four-year period and we will change everything. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We will, in fact, re-establish a Greek state, a Greek state, a Greek state, a state that will have Greeks, who will be protected from the very state that the state of New Democracy has currently trapped him and led him to poverty and poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u83	Good. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u84	Be well, Mr President, and thank you for the harassment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u85	We are now entering the circle of speakers with a natural presence. The first is Mr Yiannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr. Tryph Alexiadis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before entering the bill, I would like to ask the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group to cease violating the Parliament's Rules of Procedure in a habitual, serial and professional manner, because it is another thing that there should be a tolerance of two, three minutes and another 15 minutes instead of talking twenty-nine. This is an insult to the honourable Members who have been listening to him for so long. But I shall also refer to the question of the Greek-French Agreement, because, unfortunately, he has quoted false facts. I am referring to Article 2 - in words - of the agreement, which reads as follows: 'The parties shall provide each other with assistance and assistance with all appropriate means at their disposal and, if necessary, using armed force, if they find together that an armed attack is taking place against the territory of either of the two, in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.' This, ladies and gentlemen, is a classic clause of mutual defence assistance. And, of course, nowhere is there any option, no heresy and nowhere is predicted that if there is aggression from Turkey, there will be no corresponding mutual assistance from France. It will therefore be good when we talk in particular about issues of national security, foreign policy, not to mislead the Greek people. As regards the bill, ladies and gentlemen, I think that most in this Chamber we will agree that we want to implement all the necessary, compulsory investments provided for by Law 4406/2016, which was voted on by the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks Government. The New Democracy's proliferation over time has a positive attitude to this issue and as a government - don't forget that Kostas Karamanlis' government has come this great investment in our country - and, of course, also SYRIZA, I imagine, as a government that voted for the law, wants the mutual and the necessary obligations, if you like, to go ahead with this agreement. Where do we disagree? In essence, we disagree in the right way in order for these investments to be implemented as soon as possible and, of course, in accordance with the provisions of the existing convention. The Qualified Opposition, through its rapporteur, considers that criminal liability and criminal clauses should be charged and, to the extent, that they have not been charged - the parliamentary representative said so too - has already made a judicial decision to violate duty and to the extent that they have not been imputed to the public. Indeed, it has been said by the rapporteur for the Opposition and by my colleague - if I remember correctly - Mr Dritsa - that he said so directly - that 'COSCO' deliberately delayed investments, betting on a more favourable future government, which will change the terms of the contract to the most favourable one. But let's assume that even the government charges criminal clauses. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, really think that this will go faster and the investments will be completed? The answer, of course, is 'no' for both formal and substantive reasons. In the formal part, the Convention itself sets out specific conditions for the imposition of criminal clauses. Their enforcement presupposes that their untimely implementation depends on events under the control of the PPA. Can you prove, ladies and gentlemen, that this happened? Can the independent engineer prove it? It has already been mentioned by previous speakers. That's not his jurisdiction. The independent engineer can only see the rate of realisation of investments and not the reason why they have not been implemented. Can he finally prove it to the Greek government, that is, the other counterparty?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u87	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u88	I'll tell you, Mr. Comrade. You know very well that in a rule of law, whoever decides on the disputes between the two parties is only the court and, of course, not one of the two counterparties. And when the court decides, it obviously imposes any criminal clauses. The real question, however, is whether we need to get there and whether in this way real obstacles are overcome in the realisation of investment, which, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, is the real interest of the Greek public and Greek society. I think that this question comes from the government's legislative initiative. Our legal culture is well aware that it has too many ways of guaranteeing the good performance of a contract. And, of course, it is not always the most effective to impose criminal clauses. When, for example, you provide in the new contract that if, firstly, compulsory investments are not implemented at least 98% of the total budget within five years of the transfer of shares and, secondly, when this happens with the responsibility of the PPA, the ownership of the shares is returned to the HSE, then, of course, we have set a very strong clause. But we are also going to the essential reasons for this convention. Over the past twenty years, all the governments - including, of course, SYRIZA - have chosen and supported - with which, perhaps, individual different approaches - a strategic alliance with economic and geopolitical implications: that of Greece and China, mainly through the development of the port of Piraeus and its conversion into a port of Europe for the goods of Asia. The port of Piraeus today offers a shorter journey by at least five days for the consignments coming from Suez, in relation to Rotterdam, which is the main gateway to Europe. Piraeus is the most rapidly growing port of the Mediterranean and may, subject to conditions, threaten the sovereignty of the ports of northern Europe in terms of the entry of goods. Do we, ladies and gentlemen, wish to see this development as a nation? Do we want Piraeus to become the main gateway to Asia's goods to Europe over the next ten years? Have we considered what it means to the economy of the country, to freight transport, to the development of the railway, to the supply chain? Are we aware of what this means in terms of the country's geopolitical upgrading? If so, we should really believe in this strategic option, the strategic alliance with the country of China, an alliance that cannot be built on inexorable complaints, conspiracy approaches and choice solutions that will magically solve all the problems. Of course, it cannot be built on oblivious transformations of colleagues who say otherwise as opposition, but who do when they come to the government and of course change their mind when they come back to the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, especially for keeping time. Mr Trypho Alexiadis has the floor, and then the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy will take the floor. Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing something which we will neither hear on radio nor on television, nor will we read on newspapers, but today what we are talking about in the House is, in fact, a pirate resalto at the port of Piraeus, a pirate resalto which has not only on the part of pirate allies, but also has some who want to be activated in this area. Mr Yoyakas, as I said yesterday, your congratulations are good and today you are here! You defended the government's bill for two days. Two New Democracy MPs from the Piraeus region are currently in the Chamber. The others are absent from the Chamber. I don't know if everyone's gonna talk. Two days have elapsed since the discussion in committee. We didn't hear their locations. Some of them did not ask the Piraeus authorities a question, for whom they are so burning, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for all of this. And instead, Mr Yoyakas, today you're in beautiful fairy tales, you're here and you're fighting a policy that others should have given. However, as far as I can see from the list of speakers, not even all the Members of the New Democracy I and II of Piraeus have been written today. Why is that? We're waiting to hear them. We have also given them a last chance with the request for a roll-call vote because there is the next day. There may not be a political next day for some in Piraeus, but there will be forced traffic and there is the next day for the Piraeus society and the citizens of Piraeus. We all understand the reason because we understand that those who do not agree on the pirate resalto, those who do not agree on the 'COSCO' and other economic cycles, on what they want to do in business, in Piraeus, in port, in the city, in the city, have a cost, while those who agree to these plans and are part of this logic have a political or economic benefit. They have a benefit, which in various ways is proven and recorded. Like I said before, what we're talking about here today is not in newspapers, magazines, site, TVs! Not even radios and televisions based in the Piraeus area do not dedicate at all a few minutes or anything else. Slow silence or, to say more folk, slut! Munga from praised journalists, economic analysts, etc., for good reasons. Because, in fact, on the occasion of this bill, the debate is being opened by some of SYRIZA's offspring, for the alleged responsibilities of SYRIZA, I recall what I said yesterday, namely that the country's history was not started when SYRIZA became a government. There's a history in this country. SYRIZA had to manage very difficult assumptions, as well as the 'COSCO Convention' that other governments made. So, don't some people move our fingers! And because some people want to discuss this issue, we challenge them. As I see the Minister of Finance, as we challenge him many times - but refuses to do so yet - to have a debate on fiscal policy issues and to reveal the overtaxation of a New Democracy - PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy in the country and not what the propaganda says, so we invite them and whenever they want to have a debate at Parliament or elsewhere about what is happening in Piraeus. Because I grew up there, I live there with my family, my friends, my friends, my companions, because I worked for two years in the ship repair zone in Perama, I have the right to denounce this position. In fact, I would like to stress something else here. For the first time, the Greek Government abandons the practice it had so far, until yesterday, that it was all Greek citizens' fault. The Greek government had nothing to do with it. They were the Greek citizens for the pandemic, in fact, everything. Your Chief went to uncomfortable people whose property and homes have been destroyed, and he blamed them even for how they built their homes! That's where you've arrived. It's all the citizens' fault! Of course, it is not all because when the time comes for 'COSCO', that is where you discover the responsibilities of the Greek public! What you are doing with this bill, which is not ending either today or tomorrow, is a heavy political problem. It will also be politically and in other ways that you will find them in front of you. I challenged you yesterday to tell us whether there is a mayor or vice-president - not all SYRIZA people are, but they are reasonable people and understand that they have to walk up in Piraeus - who recognize that with responsibilities the Greek government has delayed investment. Not even one! Not even a mayor or a deputy mayor recognized that. You do it. Why are you doing this? Because you have a specific political direction from your leadership and you serve economic interests rather than the public interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I asked you yesterday to tell me from the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Shipping if there is any agency that asked you to do what you're illustrating in the bill. And I asked you if there was any service to provide us with the relevant document, because that's how the bills start. Some address or department suggests something, the process goes ahead, and it becomes a bill. So there is no such document, because it is a political decision. You have not provided us with any such documents. And we don't. Friendly site in New Democracy on 30-7-2021, when I denounced you for the first time in this House for a breach of duty, it says that the conflict with 'COSCO' was closed, despite the fact that they did not make investments of EUR 293 million. It says below, "After the transaction and on the basis of the agreement...", etc. I'm presenting this to you for the Minutes, so you can understand what your people even say. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You feared dialogue with society, with the region, with the municipalities, with the productive bodies, because you know you are wrong. But that's not enough. I want to ask you a question, just like I did yesterday. About how the bill started, we said it. It was a political decision and you have taken responsibility for what follows. But I ask the Minister of Finance. I do not ask the seven New Democracy I and II MPs, for many of them are not even in the Hall. I hope they come and talk later. So I ask the Minister of Finance: yesterday, two bodies officially submitted to us, has it been recorded in the Minutes of the House, a complaint about overrated, will you investigate this issue with the competent authorities? Because if this has been done, it is certainly a tax offence and, if it goes beyond a limit, it is also a criminal offence. I therefore look forward to the answer from you on these issues. Finally, Mr President, thank you for the tolerance, because we are talking about today, we have tabled an amendment which, Mr Staikoura, Minister, we expect your answer. An amendment which favours, in particular, the middle class, poorly populated strata for reductions in excise duty on energy products. So give an answer if you accept this amendment on the basis of which the whole country, small and medium-sized enterprises, competitiveness, tourism, the whole of the country will benefit or insist on a policy that benefits the holders and holders. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u93	He has the floor with the Minister of Finance. He asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u94	In time he will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u95	Why are you protesting, I didn't get it. There's a rule, everyone's breaking him for a few minutes or more. I didn't see you complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u96	He does it systematically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u97	The Minister of Finance is present here. What's the problem? Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need a minute. I will not answer the questions about tax policy. It is very easy to say see your tax statement this year and two years ago and then come to discuss. I'm not going to answer your flight, it's common, in 2016 to 2021. But I will answer one point. You said that we have changed tactics here and in this bill we claim that it is not the citizens' fault. Find them between you two. The rapporteur said yesterday 'you are doing something vulgar, you are responsible for the citizens'. Find them between you two and then move the finger to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u99	The Minister has the floor, Mr Yiannis Pakisotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in parliamentary life there are some bills that constitute time-consuming milestones, which are assessed not only on the basis of their quality legislative elements, but are judged by the way in which critical policies and economic policies are recorded in them. I firmly believe that the Step of the House gives the opportunity to develop and compose positions and opinions in the common interest, which often go beyond the draft of a law. Many times the real risk of a legislative initiative lies outside the narrow limits of a text law, spreads and affects a much wider range of social and economic actions that ultimately concerns the country itself. The draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy for the ratification of the agreement to amend it from 24-6-2016 concessions between the Greek State and the "Piraeus Port Authority S.A.", which we are today called upon to vote, is undoubtedly among these bills, which reveal the responsibility that the elected parties must have and not only vis-à-vis the Greek people and the future of Greece in general. It is a bill whose legislative object is to amend the 2016 PPA S.A. concession contract, but no one doubts that the essential object is finally identified in the governance model that we wish to have as a vehicle to serve the public interest in the best possible way. So, ladies and gentlemen, the questions raised today at the National Representation can be summarised as follows: Do we want growth in this place? Do we want sound investments with equal, transparent and clear burdens, rights and obligations for the public and the investor? What kind of message do we want to send to the investment community? Do we want to say yes to investment and then abandon them on the dark turbulences and blurred paths of questioning? Because the case of the Piraeus Port Authority has a long history, let me take a brief historical regression and immediately thereafter place myself on the content of the amendments to the original contract. In 1999, with Law 2688 the PPA was converted into a public limited company, which will lead to three years later, in 2002, the signing of the first concession contract between PPA SA and the Greek State, according to which the Greek State granted for for forty years the exclusive right to use, exploit the land, buildings and facilities of the port area of Piraeus. In 2003, PPA S.A. is admitted to the common stock exchange with 25.5% while in 2008 Kostas Karamanlis the Greek State's concession to PPA S.A. extends to fifty years. As early as 2009, the Chinese company ‘COSCO’ begins the lease of part of the port from ‘PA SA’ for EUR 100 million per year. In 2014 and with SYRIZA located in the squares, the TIAD begins the procedures for the disposal of the Greek State's participation in PPA SA. But in 2016 with SYRIZA here in the Parliament and in the government headquarters in the midst of grief and tears, the concession contract between the Greek State and PPA SA was amended for the purposes of a partial sale of 67% of the shares of the Greek State in "COSCO", 51% directly and the remaining 16% after a five-year period, indeed on condition that the first compulsory investments were completed. In August 2021 the first five years have ended since SYRIZA proceeded with the signing of the contract. In this five-year period, PPA SA had a contractual obligation to have completed eleven compulsory investments, including the expansion of the passenger port, the construction of the new oil pier, the improvement of infrastructure in the ship repair zone and the extension of the automobile station. During the debate yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade I tabled the report of the independent engineer, which includes the projects, the rate of completion thereof and the degree of compatibility as well. What is proven by this report? Firstly, the rate of completion of projects in the first five years - the first five years consists of three years of governance of SYRIZA and two years of governance of New Democracy, of which one and a half years in a pandemic and lockdown - is therefore 33.9%. This figure corresponds to about EUR 100 million, in fact EUR 99.6 million, of the total EUR 293.8 million of the first compulsory investment. Secondly, on the other hand, and I stress its essential importance, the compatible track is very close to 90%, to be exact, 89.85%. The first conclusion, therefore, is that the agreements of the first five years have not been complied with for various reasons why I shall refer to them. However, the intentions of the PPA are undeniably mentioned by the development of the port, which is confirmed by projects and not simply words. So the reasons for the delay are many and complex and obviously, in the event of a dispute between the two sides, they would judge what the courts were and whether each would be due to the fault of either side or both. I note that for the compulsory investment relating to the extension of the passenger station, which accounts for 46.4% of all compulsory investments - authorisation granted by you - the delay is due to a number of suspension applications, cancellation applications in the SGM. and provisional provisions. Obviously, every citizen or body has the legal right to appeal to justice. However, it is true that these judicial obstacles prevent the implementation of about half the volume of compulsory investments. This also applies to the master plan, which should have been approved within 90 days of its submission, finally approved by the Government of New Democracy just two months after taking over the country's governance. At the same time, because the assessments of the independent engineer were heard, with the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth reports of the independent engineer on compulsory investment '03, 04, 5, 3, 07, 10 and 11b', the delay was due to the Greek State, since the adoption of a decision approving environmental conditions had not yet proceeded, which was finally made on 11 December 2020. These investments account for 19.9% of all compulsory investments. It is therefore clear that a legal dispute would have an extremely dubious effect, since the PPA would have made claims. The most important thing, however, is that the judicial dispute would automatically mean stopping investment with enormous damage to the Greek economy, with enormous damage to the institutions and local society, with enormous damage to Greece's relations with a strong third country, with enormous damage to the investment climate, at a time when, after the pandemic, attracting foreign investments is an important condition for medium-term growth. Obviously, the judicial conflict, the arbitration, with an unknown ending after years not only would it not provide a solution, but it would create a huge problem. This absolutely problematic for the reasons I've already analysed perspective is actually proposing by SYRIZA. It was stated in the most glaring way, both during the Committee on Production and Trade, today in plenary, that you are 'convening the Convention'. - that SYRIZA himself signed - "Take the criminal clauses, the PPA is to blame, five years has done nothing".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u101	We said, 'Due to the Convention!'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u102	In fact, SYRIZA has even arrived at the point of launching legally unfounded threats that if we do not do so, there will be criminal sanctions for violation of duty and infidelity. But let's look more carefully at SYRIZA's choice. Be careful, I told you in committee, but the criminal clause goes down, another chapter is the termination of the contract, another chapter, another chapter, another which will actually be called upon to pay for the fragments of such a choice and economical, but also strategically. In order for there to be a criminal clause, the liability of the non-implementation of the projects should be borne by the PPA. In the contract you brought in 2016, it is written in paragraph 16.5. Did you forget? So SYRIZA comes in, and actually wears the judge's cloak, judging and condemning. I think that at some point the Party of Officers should distinguish between the three distinct powers of the Constitution. He was confused in his own government, still confusing them today. The contract expressly provides that it is responsible for deciding who is responsible for the arbitration court. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is there a certain decision? Will the result of arbitration be for the benefit of the Greek state and the public interest? Are you aware of the consequences? Arbitration for months or time, court disputes after years. What about the investment? The investment destroyed, that's the result. The attack on the country's international credibility, don't you take it into account? The blow to the port, to the municipalities - which you are so tired of today - to the users, to society, are you taking this into account? The negative impact and messages on foreigners, but also Greek investors, are you taking it into consideration? Not only will you attract foreign and Greek investors, you will expel with your own policy and those who are in Greece today. Ladies and gentlemen, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy have managed to upgrade the country's investment status as well, and this is something that responds to the markets. The confidence that Greece has gained was labored. SYRIZA Choice is a devastating choice. On the contrary, we in good faith negotiated with the investor and brought before the National Representation the amendment of the concession contract, which achieves two main objectives, firstly, the completion of the investments and, secondly, the smooth implementation of the contract. Moreover, the amendments are limited to what is strictly necessary in order to achieve their objectives and not to reverse the contractual balance resulting from them. At the same time, they confirm the state's intention of healthy cooperation with the private initiative, demonstrate strong signs of writing the pro-investor climate that the country emits, and above all, prevent the risks of abnormal development of our contractual relationship with the PPA, prevent uncertainty and possible adverse economic consequences and ensure successful completion of investments. This is what the responsible administrations around the globe do, and the responsible governments also ensure that a large and important strategic investment and interests on the part of the Greek public are realised. In particular, there is an extension of up to five years for the complete completion of the first compulsory investments of EUR 293,8 million by the Piraeus Port Authority. We are convinced and look forward to implementation before the end of the five-year period. But there is also the possibility of extending this five-year period - not beyond five years - if events occur beyond and outside reasonable control of the PPA. Such events shall be fully and restrictively recorded and agreed by the Parties. For example, such events are, among other things, judicial decisions that cause partial or total suspension of investment, discovery of antiquities and shipwrecks in the construction areas. Since, however, we have to realise that the investments provided for in the concession agreement are one of the pillars of the modification of two other changes, which will systemicize its completion, firstly, the possibility of starting up the second compulsory investments before the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the concession agreement on the basis of their interoperability with the first compulsory investments, provided that this is possible on the basis of the progress made and, secondly, that non-compulsory investments will now be able to make use of the accelerated procedure - fast-track - which is provided for in the concession agreement on the recovery and licensing of compulsory investments. That will also, by analogy, contribute to the progress of implementation - inevitably - and to the avoidance of complications that may arise in their completion. Therefore, concisely: up to five years of extension for the implementation of the first compulsory investments, an extension of up to another five years, if events occur which are strictly recorded that are outside the sphere of influence of the PPA and provide for the simultaneous implementation of the first, second and non-compulsory investments. In addition to this, 16% of the shares in HICP are transferred compared to the sum of 88 million euros, which directly contribute to state funds. It is worth noting that if you look at the financial data in recent years, the dividends collected by the Greek State from the PPA each year are on average 4 to 5 million euros. Consequently, the amount directly collected is the total dividend of 16 to 17 years. However, this agreement was accompanied by agreements to safeguard the interests of the investor and stimulate the investor to minimise delays and to complete the projects as quickly as possible. In this context, a further EUR 29 million guarantee is added to the existing EUR 15 million guarantee letter as an incentive for the concessionaire to complete the works and ensure the public. This amount corresponds to one third of the value of the unregulated first compulsory investments, minus the amounts co-financed. This incentive, as you can see, is reinforced as the guarantee is reduced as long as the projects are completed annually, but in any case the reduction may not exceed 10% of the value of the additional guarantee letter. More importantly, however, it is the introduction of the diluent herein that in case the first compulsory investments are not implemented at least 98% of their total budget and 95% of the budget of each of the first compulsory investment, within the five years of the 10% transfer and in any event within a maximum period of 10 years with the benefit of 'COSCO' or the PLN, the ownership of the shares returns to the TDI and the TIPD returns the price of the shares to 'COSCO'. For this purpose, the shares are placed under escrow by a systemic Greek credit institution to ensure the repayment of the securities without the need to claim them in the event of the dilution. At the same time, however, they take advantage of letters of guarantee. At the same time, the ‘COSCO’ issues a new guarantee letter in favour of the HSED which, however, can be transferred to the Greek State for an amount corresponding to the total value of the unregulated first compulsory investments at the time the solvent suspension is filled. In any case, however, and I stress it, the obligation of the PPA by 'COSCO' to complete the first compulsory investments is maintained. The question was raised and the parties agreed that there is a need to monitor the progress of projects on a periodic basis. This establishes the quarterly examination and reporting of the independent engineer by independent crisis in line with the best practice and the development of investments, so that the necessary feedback is in place and overcome any problems that may arise in time and time. The independent engineer in addition to this shall be responsible for the obligation and responsibility of his quarterly report to include a reference to the possible occurrence of any event of suspension and the estimated duration of that event. This report is obviously updated every three months in accordance with the new data to be generated. We therefore consider this process to be both rapid and efficient. Last pretext for protecting the interests of the public is the right to veto, the veto. With the transfer of 16% of the shares in the PPA, the reduction in the share of the HIPS also coincides with the number of members of the board that it determines. This, ladies and gentlemen, would also be done with the original contract, signed by you in 2016. The differentiation, however, which we introduced into the shareholders' agreement as a result of this amendment, is that TSE will now have the right - veto in terms of both the strategic decisions and the compliance with the PPA's obligations on projects and compulsory investments. For example, there is a veto in favour of the State in the event of a possible increase in share capital for the purpose of reducing the proportion of HICP in the PPA. This defends the remaining participation of HICP in the PPA’s equity capital, seeks to maintain the operational and economic adequacy of the PPA with a view to completing the first compulsory investments and at the same time strengthens the influence of HICP when taking decisions relating to the implementation of the first compulsory investments. Therefore, while the shareholders' agreement would otherwise reduce the participation of the Greek State in one member of the board of directors, the remaining member of the board of directors would also result in increased rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond in particular to the objections made by the Objection on the existence of allegedly secret agreements that do not come to ratification or are not submitted, such as the share sale agreement or the shareholder agreement. But did the 2016 shareholder agreement, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, come to Parliament? Was he then submitted to the National Representation? Did the contract for the good execution guarantee letter, amended concession contract in 2016, come to Parliament? Did the government then sign a confidentiality clause with Article 27 and Article 10 of the Shares Agreement and the 2016 Share Contract respectively? Does SYRIZA come back and tell us that he was never asked for? So if it had been requested, the two contracts then could you make them public? Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment you have before you, as in 2016 as it is today linked to the purchasing agreements and the agreement of the shareholders which, as I told you in committee, are private documents rather than public documents. In fact, the concession contract has two parties. The Greek State and PPA S.A. and this is because the property of the port belongs to the Greek state and all investments are made is the property of the Greek State. I want you to understand that because you have a different view of the use of ports. That is why both the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Minister present are signatories. That is why it comes to be ratified in the Greek Parliament. The agreement on the sale of the shares of PPA SA, including the dissolved sect, the veto rights and the shareholders' agreement including the powers of the member appointed by the GOI and the additional guarantee letter has signatures of the GOI and COSCO. SYRIZA, however, probably intentionally hides that international practice is that these private agreements remain confidential, and indeed the confidentiality clause in both contracts was agreed, ladies and gentlemen, for days of yours. Our reference to these agreements is made first of all in the light of respect for confidentiality, but also in the light of the documentation that the public interest, as it is our duty, is protected at every step of the agreements. In other words, the guarantees given by PPA SA. - COSCO' are addressed to the Greek State and reflectively to the GOI. Both of these contracts were approved by the Court of Auditors. With regard to the reasons behind the need to amend, the Court of Auditors has decided - as the Opposition quite unfounded - that there was a fault of the Greek State, since such a matter was never a matter of substance, nor could it be a matter of Court of Auditors' competence. Let us add that neither indirectly can the Greek State be held responsible for this because of the reference to the Court of Auditors' decision of the lack of fault on the other side. The fact that there is no fault of the PPA does not automatically mean that there is a fault of the Greek State, as the rapporteur of Minority claimed. This is a sensible leap which has a sound legal basis and is clearly disorientative. Therefore, because of this uncertainty, the parties would undoubtedly have led to arbitration with doubtful outcomes and certain delays and burdens for the Greek State. What did Mr Ragus also say to us? I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has put into it. What does the Court of Auditors say about the current amendment to the Convention? That inadmissible is introduced for a pre-contractual legal review since neither the original draft contract concluded on 13 February 2002 nor the subsequent amendments in the years 2008 and 2016 which did not pass the pre-contractual legality check. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the attempt to criminalise political life is dead and in any case cannot be an alibi to SYRIZA's populism. To conclude, I would like to close with two thoughts. It's easy to rhetoric of the complaint. It's easy to blame the breach of duty and infidelity. But you do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the notion of violating duty and infidelity. A breach of duty is the freezing of the investment. Infidelity in the country is the destruction of the investment environment that we have been trying and building since the first day. Failure of a Member State to fulfil its obligations — Failure to transpose, within the prescribed period, Council Directive 92/81/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of It is unfaithful that the government puts investment at risk, without taking into account the possibility that the investment-related industries will find difficulties from the shipyard - which you so much care about - to the tugs that assist the projects, from ship repair to the cruise touristic footprint. Do you really understand the substance of your proposal? The use of SYRIZA's proposal is a major lack of responsibility and ultimately constitutes an act of non-service to the interests of the public. Solving the dispute through the agreement of the parties to ratification by the National Representation and the establishment of a trust relationship is undoubtedly a choice of responsibility. Mr President, I end up and thank you for your tolerance. The Government has negotiated with determination and measure and the amendment to the Convention has succeeded in serving the double objective, implementing the investment and safeguarding the interests of the State. You also confessed yesterday: you do not want the investment. You don't want investments in the ports. Those who may not have wanted it, but were forced - your declarations were made - to proceed with the signing of the Convention in 2016, trying once again to strengthen it. For Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and for the entire government the investment in the port of Piraeus is of key importance for the city, the local society, the national economy, the geostrategic position of our country in the wider region. With the amendment of the Convention, we ensure its evolution, we safeguard our interests, we safeguard the benefits for the local society. We respond to zeroing with work. In danger, we respond with sure moves. We respond responsibly to populism. That's why citizens trust the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis. That is why our country is an investment destination and our economy is on a steady path to development. That is why Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is going forward. Thank you very much for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA welcoming a request for a roll-call vote. Once again, the responsibility of the New Democracy and the populism of the SYRIZA will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. The reason for two minutes is the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Ragussis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u104	Two minutes is enough to answer those words that are poverty. Mr Placiotakis, I honestly heard you for half an hour I don't know what else the National Representation would hear if the legal representative of 'COSCO' had taken up this step. I really don't know what else they'd say. Nothing more than what you said, you spoke not as Minister of the Greek Government. And I ask you directly once again on behalf of all the Members who have asked you quite clearly about your colleagues, those who respect, let us, I mean the Members of the New Democracy. Is there a compulsory investment that has not been carried out and is it because of COSCO, yes or no, Mr Plakkatakis? Say now. Is there? Is there a mandatory investment for which ‘COSCO’ is responsible? Why don't you answer? Why are you avoiding? Why did you go to the Court of Auditors and say falsely that 'COSCO' is not due? So you deceived the Court of Auditors and led it to the decision that you led it. The question you will inevitably be asked to answer, Mr Plakkatakis, whether here or in society, is what I did to you a moment ago and which you will keep up with. And since you spoke of what is a violation of duty and infidelity, a breach of duty and infidelity, Mr Plakkatakis, it is not to apply the Greek public contract, it is not to impose the clause that has given you the responsibility to enforce the Greek Parliament on someone who has breached its commitments to be fair - beyond all others - to all the companies in the country, to all investors who do their job, as they have agreed with the Greek State. Failure of duty and infidelity, Mr. Plackotakis, is to let it become a mall in Piraeus from 'COSCO', it is to let it be a shipyard from 'COSCO' to Piraeus and destroy the ship repair. Failure of duty and infidelity is to let the quantum pier in Keratsini and destroy the Keratsini, it is to let the archaeological sites and the environment be destroyed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u105	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u106	I'll give a brief answer, but Mr. Ragus doesn't follow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u107	To the question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u108	Sure. Who is responsible, I'm not gonna decide. They'll decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u109	You're covering for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u110	Will you let me finish? Mr. Ragosi, you're young in Piraeus. You're not watching me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr Ragosisi, I gave you the floor. He didn't interrupt you. Let him answer now. I will also tell you, if you will, then legally how this dissolved cult works. In fact, it's a retreat that works for the public, but whatever.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u112	I did not ask you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u113	The one who decides who is to blame for the arbitration and then the court disputes. What don't you understand? But what you have to answer is this: what do you want? Will the investment stop? Say it clearly. "We want to stop the investment, we do not want investors in the country, we want to tax citizens and share allowances." I was challenged once again by Mr. Raguss. As it is cut off for the ship repair zone, what will happen and what will happen with the investments in the area more widely, I said yesterday, Mr Ragosi. The new revised master plan approved by the Government of New Democracy does not include the authorisation to set up a shipyard. What don't you understand? I have said this very well on many occasions in the House. However, as a government, Mr Ragosi, we are interested in the investment going ahead. We are interested in safeguarding the interests of the Greek State and in this ratification of an amendment to a contract, we are doing both. But do you know what you achieved with your own intervention? Not only do you not create incentives for attracting investment by foreigners but also Greek investors, but with your own attitude those who are currently operating in our country will also leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Ragossi, listen. We never finish. It is a different legal approach. Solvent suspensions when activated dissolve the contract from the outset. As has been said by the Minister, it is the concept of a withdrawal of the public and the benefits so far remain in favour of the public. That's the point. I read it carefully. I read every piece of legislation. That's what I'm saying. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Plackotakis, I am against this investment populism for who doesn't want the investment, etc. We want legality. We want competition, we want transparency, we want equal conditions for all investors in our country. We don't want Greece Banana. First of all, that. Two. What, Mr President, did Mr Plakatakis say a moment ago? 'I', he says, 'I won't tell you if 'COSCO' is responsible. In your speech, Mr. Plakyotakis, do you know how many times you said that the Greek State has a responsibility? How dare you come here and say that it has the responsibility of the Greek State and to hesitate to say that 'COSCO' is responsible? Then it is your fault when we tell you that you are not speaking, that you are not posted as government ministers, but as legal representatives of the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u118	Just a minute, too, Minister. And please stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u119	Mr Ragussis systematically at all the meetings and during the Committee on Production and Trade, and today he systematically distorts my positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u120	What are you doing? You said things we never said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u121	I understand the difficult position you are in today. You were forced to ratify the 2016 concession. You don't believe in investment. Say it clearly. What's your position? Do you want the implementation of education to go ahead?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u122	We do, you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u123	Are you cut for local society and local entrepreneurship? What did the agencies say yesterday? Entities want to go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u124	You are only in favour of 'COSCO', not for investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u125	Well, confess it. You're not in favour of investment. I've answered all your positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u126	You didn't answer anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u127	And what I mentioned was the assessments of the independent engineer. I've never made a judgment on who's to blame. That is why I said because there is this blur, because it is the 'COSCO', which is why we have proceeded to a friendly solution in order to ensure the interests of the Greek State but also to proceed with the implementation of the investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u128	Good. That's the Minister's place. Mr. Apostle Panos of the Change Movement has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Ioannis Tragakis from New Democracy. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u129	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on how unauthorised a bill, such as today, is to be submitted to the House under fast track procedures. As I cannot say once again that our prolongation, the Change Movement, has been in favour of granting the activities of the port of Piraeus, but without the sale of the majority package of shares, so that there is an effective institutional framework for ensuring healthy competition, monitoring, compliance with the conditions of concessions and, of course, to ensure the protection of the natural environment. We have been and continue to be in favour of investment that will lead to the creation of infrastructure projects that our country so much needs and which will create new jobs, always ensuring the already existing, as well as the quality of life of the inhabitants. Already the amendment of the concession signed in June 2016 between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority by the previous government was problematic, as an extra area was granted to the ‘COSCO’ and even a high archaeological region. I would also like to remind colleagues from the Officerial Representation that by its ratification of 24-06-2016 amendment and codification of the concession agreement between the Greek State and the PPA, the issue of delays in the implementation of specific investments after 51% of the organisation's shares were transferred to 'COSCO' has been settled. At the moment, however, we have a new ratification of a convention before us. Therefore, instead of discussing the serious damage caused by the PPA counterparty to the legitimate interests of the public without having realised its contractual obligations with investments, we deliver the insurance of defective sects for the transfer of the additional 16% of the shares in PPA S.A. which should be delivered when the obligations are completed. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is the possibility of imposing the planned financial clauses of EUR tens of million and you ask us not to take advantage of our legitimate right to negotiate whether or not better terms are at least to ensure that they are implemented as soon as possible. The regulation amending the existing concessions unilaterally in favour of the interests of the contractor and without any profit for the Greek State is justified. Thus, with this amendment, the Greek State delivers any few negotiating weapons, such as the transfer of 16% of the shares in the PPA, without even guaranteeing the investments that have been due for the last five years by COSCO. Minister, the contractor has already ignored, and with your tolerance, any criminal clauses laid down in the existing contract. So why not ignore them in the future that will already have multiplied its profits and further strengthened its dominant monopoly position? The Greek government's retreat attitude is unrealistic and we are deeply saddened. This Convention conveys responsibility for the fact that investment in the Greek State has not been carried out for five years and a few days ago the majority rapporteur has transferred responsibility to the citizens who are protesting about a work they disagree with. We even heard them raise the strong concerns of the Committee on Production and Trade yesterday in the process of hearing the bodies. I do not want to be further extended to Annex 7.2 and the table of events prior to the investment period. I will also not go any further into a contract that favours any company's expanding addresses, which affects the legitimate national interests and citizens' rights. So, as our attitude was clear and in the ratification of the investment agreement between the "ELENIKI FRYSOS" where you legislated in favour of a company and we voted against the contract, as in that contract we tried to understand how environmental control would be effective by hiring an independent environmental auditor from the company, so in this contract we are trying to believe that it is considered and that it will be the qualified independent engineer who will be housed in the PPA offices and paid by him. To conclude, I would like to say that the specific text negotiated by the Government, which amends the existing regulation, does not take into account and everything that had been preceded or actually ensures the public interest in terms of its rights and revenue. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, "CYPHELLI" Programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, nursery and childcare stations, provisions to promote assumption and adoption, "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons" and other provisions. Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. We are patiently here at ten o'clock this morning, despite what Mr Alexiadis said. We were here all along. Let me make a comment because the President of the Greek Solution has referred to me. In the decades I have been here, I have seen many small parties, denounced small parties. The complaint has never benefited. None of these parties have survived politically. It must take this very seriously into account when it is simply denouncing and threatening. In fact, he threatened the Prime Minister himself. He should take this seriously into account for the subsequent course of his party. Referring to the Members of the minority who have said that we are absent, I will say that we were present and are not present now. I personally have been present since 2002, since the beginning of the 'COSCO' case. In time, the New Democracy was in favour of investment. Long time. He never changed course. Others changed course, hypocritical, completely hypocritical. And all their denounced speech, their hypocritical speech hides their embarrassment in what they said in 2016. And we have to say the main of all. Then, in 2016, they did not put the dissolved cult, which is in favour of the public, and the President correctly mentioned it. They didn't bring anything about the dilutive sect. The most important weapon we have in our hands is the diluent sect in this case. And I'm going to ask: did Cosco do something for Piraeus? Yeah, he did. I'll say it straight away. The six hundred thousand containers reached eight million with a view to ten, going eleven. And not to mention the IOB report, which my fellow Members have not taken into account. IOBE's report says that within a decade the Greek State will collect directly or immediately 858 million from this investment. Do they have any objections to that? They also did not read the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which is expressly mentioned in the report that the agreement and the confidentiality clause were followed - keep this, read the report carefully - all the agreements that have been made. All the agreements that have been made. All of them! Even for the roads, for the railroads. All agreements, the House's Scientific Service said. I would also like to refer to the bill now, apart from the dissolution that is a very important issue. I think that very important issue, too, is the benefits that the Greek public gains from this contractual arrangement. In addition to the 88 million other than those which will be invested, they are entitled to these five years of extension provided for in the Convention, the plan which they had to formalise and implement. You will say 'Integration has not been done on certain issues'. Here, Minister, I want your understanding and your attention. You have correctly mentioned the 293 million, etc.. You said that the extension of the passenger port - for the cruise, that is - is 136 million, is almost half. My question is to the Civic Opposition: Is it in favour of the cruise? Is it in favor of becoming cruise docks? Did they ask the cruise people? Did they ask the shipping workers about the cruise? Piraeus had actually emerged at a cruise center. We want the cruise. We're pursuing the cruise. The other issue they raised is an issue that we have resolved and dealt with over time. And the fact that there is not going to be a ship repair from 'COSCO' is not going to be done. Even the Prime Minister has referred to this issue on pier 4, as well as the Minister on several occasions. That is the political decision. Here we heard the unprecedented fact that their laws are recommended by the Directors-General and the Directors of the Ministries. If that's possible! That's what they heard here. These are in the authoritarian regimes. In democracy, their laws are brought by the responsible political leadership. No one else. But, Minister, I want to make a report. 'COSCO' was doing all right? Oh, no. Of course not. Of the 55 million - this is Mr Collis' report from the 'HILL INTERNATIONAL' which is the independent engineer - for the improvement of the shipbuilding zone infrastructure, including the waterway tanks, at least 25 million went to the waterway tanks. Here I denounce 'COSCO' that he has done almost no work within the zone. Almost no play. We who walk the zone, see that the conditions are the same as they used to be. What about the worst? There's no power. You know they can't get the ships that use the pier? All such mechanisms must be used, which must bear construction costs. So you realise, Minister, that here they must be forced to create the preconditions. What can pressure them? What you said. What can pressure them? The criminal clauses. How can criminal clauses force them? As long as the percentages of compatible projects go as far as the criminal clauses are concerned. So they themselves have an economic incentive to move on with these issues. There was an intervention in the committee by the bodies in which I took a position which spoke of non-compulsory investments. Here, Minister, we should all be very careful about non-compulsory investments. In other words, for those who are not in the first place compulsory investments. There was a fear that perhaps non-compulsory investments could get in more. The insurance policy that for non-compulsory investments is addressed to the Director-General - he is making the proposal, the Director-General - has also denounced us that we are assigned to the Director-General, which should be in charge. Oh, no. Non-compulsory investments are not reported. The original plan will be the one to be applied up to antenna. That's the reality. So in order to continue with the investments which everyone has mentioned, Mr Minister, it is an opportunity to take a look at three investments. First of all, it is the use of the shipyards. We must make full use of the Scaramaga shipyards through the new investor. There are water tanks in the Scaramaga shipyards, which are up to five hundred thousand tonnes, which will give us the right to make repairs to large ships. We should also see the Elefsina shipyards in a negotiation, but as you know from all ship repairers, from Schistos Industrial Park there is the initiative, the proposal, the hope that the shipyards will work to get the Greek shipowners to the Greek shipyards and not to go to the Turkish coast for repairs. And you know that we have the best labor-dynamic staff that exists in the repair. You realize that even in Korea they take workers from Greece to do the repairs and engage in our professionals, who go to all of these places. I would therefore like to take a look at this and on an issue raised by the President of the 'BIPAS', Mr Polychronopoulos. They call for an extension, Mr President, to contact the church so that these people who have invested there, about 450 million private capital and have customers from all over the world, can expand their activities. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Panagiota Dunia has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the first region of Piraeus and our islands, I am particularly interested in the development of my city and the best possible use of its port, namely the largest port in our country. The same interest is undeniably shared by the New Democracy as a whole, which has demonstrated since the beginning of the country's governance by ensuring that it creates a friendly environment for investment and entrepreneurship and creates a framework for addressing the obstacles that may arise in the realisation of the investments concerned. The latter was considered necessary, as the delays in the implementation of the investment projects in addition to their significant economic costs are averting Greece's international image as a place of attraction for investment. In order to avoid such multi-faceted damage, we are now called upon to ratify the agreement to amend the concession agreement between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority, signed in the summer of 2016. As we all remember, based on the initial assessments, this project was to be completed in about two and a half years from the signing of the concession. The progress made in the project has, however, been considerably delayed due to the repeated interruptions in work and, as a result, the modification of the provisions of the Convention to become a one-way route. The content of the amending agreement came after an intensive negotiation between the Greek State, the Private Property Development Fund of the State and the ‘COSCO’. The negotiation between these parties was necessary in order to prevent the risk of further delays and to avoid an extension of uncertainty in the event that the two parties resorted to the arbitral resolution of their disputes. This is because, in such a case, the Greek State would be faced with unbearable economic consequences due to the failure to implement the first compulsory investments, while accepting 'COSCO' compensation as a result of the delay. However, let us look more specifically at what the amended Convention provides for. It settles the issue of delays in the implementation of certain investments following the transfer of 51% of the organisation's shares to 'COSCO'. At the same time, the road opens for transferring an additional 16% of the shares in the PPA from the State's Private Property Responsibility Fund to 'COSCO' for a 88 million euro price. The amended provisions are still extended for five years after the transfer of the additional 16% of shares over the period for the completion of the compulsory investments in the first period. This period may be extended up to another five years, but only for specific exceptional reasons. Of course, because the concession agreement provides for 16% to be granted before the first compulsory investment is completed, special provision is made for the protection of the interests of the Greek State. In order to protect our interests, therefore, the transfer of this 16% is subject to the dissolution of the first compulsory investments due to 'COSCO' or to the PPA over the next five years or within the next 10 years if reasons outside the control of the PPA and 'COSCO' arise and a suspension period is given. The dissolution means that the transfer of the shares takes place immediately, but the previous situation is automatically reversed and the first condition is restored if the first compulsory investments are not implemented. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if, within this maximum period of time, the investments are not carried out to the extent that they are determined and therefore the 'COSCO' or the PPA is responsible, then the share rate is automatically returned to the HSE. At the same time, however, the contractual obligation to complete all the first compulsory investments which will be outstanding until then. As a second safety net now, the amendment to the original agreement introduces the obligation to lodge an additional guarantee letter of 'COSCO' in favour of the HICP for the transfer of 16% of the shares of EUR 29 million. In the event that the investments are not implemented during the first periods and at the forecasted rates, the guarantee letter falls to the detriment of Cosco and for the benefit of the GDR, with the responsibility of more than 90% of the PPA and of Cosco. I would remind you that this guarantee letter is added to the EUR 15 million guarantee letter, which has already been granted in favour of the Greek State under the initial concession contract. At the same time, the amended Convention provides for suspension of the period of implementation of the first compulsory investments. The suspension will only be given when there are reasons outside the sphere of influence of the PPA and of the 'COSCO', so-called suspension events relating to already authorised projects of the first compulsory investment. Monitoring of a suspension event, as well as assessment and assessment of its impact on the implementation of investments, will be certified by an independent engineer who will report on it in order to resolve any disagreements. Finally, the amended agreement shows an increase in the role of HICP in the decision-making of the PPA. In particular, there is provision for a veto of the GOI in decisions relating to the completion of the first compulsory investments and in decisions leading to a weakening of the position of the GOI in the PPA as a result of a reduction in the participation of the Fund in the company’s equity capital. Ladies and gentlemen, as we can all understand the amendments to the initial concession agreement between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority, they are limited to what is strictly necessary and do not in any way overthrow the balance of the original text. They are aiming at the quickest possible completion of the compulsory investment programme in a mutually beneficial way for all the parties involved and are essential to safeguard the interests of the Greek State and the unfeasible continuation of an ambitious investment programme in the largest port of the country, in our Piraeus for the greatest possible use of which we care and fight against all New Democracy MPs not with crowns and complaints, as our colleague, Mr Alexiadis, has unfortunately done, trying to target him for reasons of impressive and micro-political reasons both me and the other Members of the Piraeus Region, but essentially through actions and moves that take our city forward, which give Piraeus the impetus and the place that he deserves, by turning him into a attraction pole and a model for tourist and business development. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Constantine Hetas has the floor. Mr. Heta, because your Chief spoke too, you'll have less time with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Plakkatakis, ladies and gentlemen, I have lived in this Chamber for the theatre of irrationality. I saw that nice show you set up before. After your speech, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman took the fire and you answered. You know, the worst thing is, if you believe what you're doing is much more dangerous. If there's a confession that it's a nice theatrical performance, say we're participating, we also have free viewing from here and fine. But if you believe it, it's really creepy. Why? Because you don't have any field of controversy. This is the problem of New Democracy and SYRIZA in particular. For the Change Movement I don't know, he has his own issues, he's not here whenever he comes, he can find them. They bring, you sign. The state keeps on doing everything. These political wrists have no reason to confront them. What do they say? Where to fight? What do they say to you after they brought them in? And just for the sight, there's a nice theatre set in here and they're bringing what they bring and you vote for it and they won't vote for it. But did you bring them? It's crazy. So, if the world understands and we see controversy unreasonable and stirred, what can I really say? Tell me, Mr Placiotakis, a country, a European country - I am not talking about either New Democracy or anyone - who has sold water, electricity, gas, airports, trains, ports and telecommunications. Tell me one! One who's sold it all, all of it! This is Greece, Greece has done it. Greece has done so, the government of the three parties that ruled and destroyed it and brought it here. And you have the courage of the politician all of you and you come in here today and we have a different view, since you are the same! Tell me what to talk about the bill today. Tell me really. What can we say? What value do they have for you, for all of you - if they have any value - fundamental concepts and values? For there are these words "thematic concepts and values" to protect the public interest, to defend the rights of the Greek people, to exploit the Greek property, for the good of the country, for the good of the Greeks. Do they have any value for some of you, for your government, where do you invest? Where do you invest? Where they invested. Where did they invest? Because for you the word "investment" has a different meaning. Investment is a sale. It's just, clearly. The Memorandum Obligations, the pimps of the past that have loaded us and we need to be handlers now. We don't rule. We're working on it. That's what you're doing. You have been ruling for two years - and above - and your priority is to satisfy what has been brought about by foreigners, the interests of foreigners, third parties, lenders, banks, impunity, all that you have voted in here and of course also give the benefits to immigrants, to illegal people who come, all that. Because it's all European orders. Oh, Greece is not cut off! You've been talking about investment for so long. You have been talking so long about privatizations, about the enormous benefits that our country will have from them. But the truth is different and you know it very well, that you serve interests that no one has to do with the Greek State, with the Greek interest. At least not to waste our time. Bring them, vote all together hand - hand and don't set here fights politicians make for the eyes of the world. There must be substance here too. And the essence of the matter, Mr Plakkatakis, Minister, who, on your face today, sees the government, are the political parties, the political forces have a serious say with proposals. And we feel very pleased, not because we have acceptance from the world, not only this, but because we are a voice of reason that all the Greek proposals - and I will number them now, to stay in the Minutes of this House once again - have been implemented. Because, Mr Plakkatakis and the gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are right. We were right to everything. We were right that we were the first and our Chief called the Prime Minister and told him about the Rafale and you took them. It is a great vindication for us and we are a party with substantial opposition and proposals. We have been entitled to the freshness we have fought not to take the American soups last minute, but to take the Belhara or Belaras - as you would say - French. We have been entitled to 'Greek-French alliance'. They still echo the words of the President of the Greek Solution in here: "Greece - France alliance". But be careful now. On the one hand we agree - since we have proposed it - but what we say is right. You don't do it all right. You're making mistakes, omissions. You know, the devil hides in the finest letters and in the contracts and in the banks when you go to the deals when you sign. In the finest letters! The President of the Greek Solution told you a moment ago that he spoke here. What did he tell you about this deal? What does Greece gain? Be careful, we're in favor. Again, we proposed Belharra, the Greek Solution. We proposed the Rafale, the Greek Solution. We were in favour of "Greek-French alliance", the Greek solution. But we note this: what does the agreement say in it? That France will never turn against NATO's state. So? So? Who's our enemy? Turkey. Dolls the time, if anything happens, what will France say? "NATO Party, Turkey, I wash my hands." Understand? Yes, but. The finest letters. We were yelling about the wall in Evros. I'm on it. We went after you made a fence, not a wall, but at least you realized the necessity to do so. We've been yelling all along. You have so-called closed centers for illegal, but in residential areas and have to go to uninhabited islands. We're telling you. You'll go back to our talk. Slow down. You'll see that you'll drive to The great mistake we have voted against: EEZ, which you voted for and you signed and agreed, a reduced influence. It is the EEZ voted by the Greek Parliament and the New Democracy except for the Greek Solution with Egypt and Italy. Because that's a crime, Mr. Plakatakis. It's your ministry like that. It's a crime, the reduced influence on our islands. Our own country must sign and give a reduced, Mr President, influence to our islands and to the west, with the agreement with Italy, but also with Egypt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And there are now the Turks, which Turkey has committed to an area from Kastelorizo to the Cypriot EEZ with Navtex, enclosed in Kastelorizo, which extends within the Cypriot EEZ. Cyprus has reacted. We radio silence, nothing. And where is Turkey going, Mr. Brutsi? Here, in this agreement with Egypt. And what does it say? "On the basis of the agreements you made with Egypt and Italy, with the partial influence of your islands, we will also go to our agreement." We're fucked! That's what we were yelling at. That's why we didn't, and we didn't sign and we didn't agree with you. And what else do we say? And you have to do it and you'll do it again. We hope you will also hear us here: Single defence doctrine with Cyprus, EEZ with Cyprus, twelve maritime miles, maritime zones and fisheries protection. I'll see you around. Will you do it? Do it! We are entitled to everything and we are proud of it, for our work, our work, our proposals, our morality and the outcome of our work. No one can come out and say otherwise, and we're very pleased. We have also been entitled to other health issues. From day one, the most serious, the clearest attitude: not to compulsoryity, yes to democracy. What else did we say? Lockdown's wrong. Turns out. What else did we say? Pharmaceuticals. Turns out. The whole Department of Health is gone, Minister. The whole Ministry of Health who handled the pandemic a year and a half passed away and the ministers left and the secretaries left and the Pharisees left. And that's a confession of defeat and failure. You're driving the world crazy and I'm closing, Mr. President. We had a meeting the other day, Mr President, with the people of EKAV. Probably people have gone to everyone. However, the drama we saw people fifty, fifty-five, sixty-five years old crying like young children because after thirty years of service the crews on EKAB, who have saved lives, are suspended because they have not been vaccinated and have not been paid and have not to feed their children, is truly embarrassing for Greece, for our democracy, for our philosophy as a country and for your Government. It's embarrassing, really embarrassing. Every day we have the terrorists parade from the channels. Get them the journalists on the payroll. The other guy's out today, and what did he say? "Do not retire the invaders"! Well, is that possible? Are we out of our minds? Are we out of your mind? Have we completely fooled? "Do not retire the invaders"! Hey, parrot, he's out and he said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u136	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President, but it is really crazy. I close it and we'll say it every time. Remove the indiscriminate from doctors to convince everyone about the vaccine. And because the summer leaves, the tourists are leaving, the lockdown is coming. Now we remembered the red in towns again - summer was all open - now that Agios Dimitris is approaching, now that the parades are approaching, now that all this is approaching. You'll be closing on Christmas. You'll close it all again. That's a great policy. Mr President, everything has a limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u138	Be well. Thank you. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, thank you. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a reference to the Minister for Finance. This draft law, the ratification of an agreement on the use and exploitation of certain countries of assets within the Port of Piraeus between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority, a contract that the relevant Minister of Finance will clearly sign. At the moment I come from a meeting - and I address the Minister of Finance - he may not be present, but I imagine he is watching - with fired cleaners from the Ministry of Finance, who have been working for eighteen and twenty years and are now on the way and in the chambers of the courts to claim self-proof, the right to work. Let Mr Stakoras be serious about this matter. I think for seventy people it's not that big a problem to give a solution. At the same time, this draft law actually gives rise to and is conferred on private individuals. You as government, Minister - you represent the government at the moment, I am speaking more generally - loyal to your neoliberal ideas continue unsatisfactory, as if something were after you, to divest the public property, the property of the Greek people. Since 2019 you have been in the government with the people's vote - clearly no one disputes this - you have shown a adorable zeal in diving and selling. What can we say? Should we talk about energy issues? Can we talk about the issues of the TEN? Can we talk about the "infrastructure"? All this recently. And the last, of course, the divestment of PPC, the largest energy company in the country, in essence and the privatisation of PPC. You consider the market, the market solves everything, according to your own logic. In fact, the former Minister for the Environment had said that liberalisation of energy and competition would drop prices. And we come here today and see exactly the opposite. The electricity prices are rising. Neither the Government nor the competent bodies, either RAE, either the Competition Committee or anything, take measures, in addition to 20%, which increased in September '19 the current and based on the fact that we are champions of accurate energy in Europe. Well, who are you serving after all? These are very serious issues and we must not go far enough and people do not get over them and the trade unions do not get over them. In fact, I was informed that there was also one action on the part of the competent financial prosecutor on the PPC issue this morning. On the other hand, bring a new memorandum to the country when the country is out of memory. And, as I said personally, Mr Mitsotakis' memorandum is being implemented at the moment. I was calling it election. "It's all because of SYRIZA, because you don't have any arguments. The same is true of this contract with PPA and COSCO: "SYRIZA again is to blame" for what he had done in '16 and so on. But what do you vote on this draft law? For delays in the execution of compulsory investments, the Greek State is responsible for the Greek State and not the company itself. This is your central argument, in order to amend the terms of the contract, to ensure that works of compulsory investment are carried out properly, as well as that they are carried out. You say this clearly in the preamble to the Convention: everything that evades the competence of 'COSCO', the reasons why it has not been able to implement its investments. So the Greek State is responsible for the fact that no investment has been made for five years or is it the public's fault? Let's say that. We know that 'COSCO' to get 16% of the additional shares in the PPA had to have made some compulsory investments. Of what 'COSCO' itself had to contribute in order to carry out these investments, it has only contributed 38% to the end of the five-year investment period. Is the PPA or COSCO not responsible for not making compulsory investments? More than forty days an investor has smashed the contract with the Greek State and no criminal clause is being activated. While the period of implementation of the first compulsory investments has expired since the first days of August 1921, the Greek Government, despite the possibility of granting it and giving it the 1916 Parliamentary Convention, has neither activated criminal clauses nor made use of the guarantee letter of EUR 15,000. Instead, you decide to remove the investor from his obligations and cause damage to the State as well. For you it always makes sense for the public, i.e. we all, the Greek people, the citizens, to compensate companies and never to pay. What is this development and the model you're proposing? What message with this move do you give investors internationally? "Come here, whatever you want done in Greece, does everyone do what they want?" This is a very dangerous one - let me say - a message that you are giving to international markets. For ten years we will have a port which we have given in order to make it better, and there will not be even the minimum level of service provided. What about environmental studies and their implementation? What about the serious pollution problems in the port? What about noise, a serious environmental pollutant, which we must not underestimate? What about the traffic at the port? Indeed, we, as SYRIZA, received in 2016 a contract that gave everything to the PPA and changed it. We put in compulsory investments, which we are talking about today. We put clauses on the implementation of compulsory investments. We provided for 16% of the share capital to be granted after the completion of contracts. We gave space to fertilisers, passage, local government. We have ensured that the public's interests are safeguarded. We have secured labour rights. It was recognised that the public nature of the coastline was recognized and we also had three public bodies to control the contract. It is no coincidence that the local government and the second meeting of the Committee on the draft law were negative, the local administration of the wider region and the mayor of Piraeus, etc. In order to avoid misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of investment, but we are in favour of investment with rules, in particular, of ensuring the public interest and sustainability in local communities, of ensuring the right to action, operation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, of living and breathing people, as is to be done at the port today. But you're giving it all to the PPA. Anybody who doesn't agrees will put a lock on it. In this regard, Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development said that small and medium-sized enterprises will 'finish' if they do not do what he thinks reasonable. Today, the port is in danger of your policy. Piraeus is in danger. I would even say, Minister, that there is a total risk of what has been left in this country since Mr Mitsotakis' government has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although today's bill, in our opinion, is a typical draft law in the sense of assessing the amendment of a contract - that is our view - always with a denominator of safeguarding the public interest, strong oppositions and different approaches have arisen, particularly from the SYRIZA side, on issues that now raise this legislation on other key political issues: That's it. Are we in favour of investment? Yes or no? And how do we mean that? Second. Is the public interest guaranteed through this investment? Yeah, and if so, how? Or if not, how? Thirdly, to make a calm assessment, because we owe it to all that has been heard, if the state has chosen to privatise the port of Piraeus since 1999. In the historical course after twenty-two years and in its transition to 'COSCO', did the Greek State benefit or not, Greek workers, the labour market, public revenues? That is what I think now needs to be answered, and at the end of the procedure we must all, calmly, capture the facts with figures and facts. I start with the historic route - the Minister said it, and I will be briefer - because it is worthy of such a debate to highlight the historical course of things. In 1999, ladies and gentlemen, with Law 2688 the Piraeus Port Authority became an anonymous company. 2002 was the first signature of a concession contract by the Greek State for forty years at the Piraeus Port Authority as an anonymous company now. In 2003, Piraeus Port Authority S.A. enters the stock market. That's a great time. In 2008, the Government of Constantine Karamanlis, New Democracy, proceeded with the concession for fifty years from forty to the Piraeus Port Agency. In 2009, "COSCO" leases parts of the Piraeus Port Company. In 2014, the HICP has the assets in the PPA S.A... In 2016 on SYRIZA, a concession contract of 51% is made. And 2021 is what we are discussing today the contested bill by amending the concession agreement. This is the historic route. A question arises. In all these twenty-two years what political body was consistent and reliable in ideological, worthy of faith and who were the occasional ones, as we tell them on the islands of winds that went wherever and when the wave was a part of them? Answer me. The most reliable political body has always been New Democracy. At all these times, the New Democracy, either as a republic or as a opposition, was always in favour. Mr. Santorinier, 2016, for your day, the New Democracy was here in the House and voted for the concession you brought to the House. The New Democracy at PASOK then, in 2009, when the transfer of the buildings and real estate of PPA SA was made to 'COSCO', they were here and firmly reliable and consistently voted in favour. The paradox now. Whenever the New Democracy was a government and brought changes, like what is happening today, the whole system was across. What does that show, ladies and gentlemen? It shows that we are a political body that is consistently and reliable, regardless of whether we are government or opposition, we do not function micro-groups, but we always look high, the national interest. And the national interest was this whole historic route, a historic route that crossed all the parties, which, when it was government support and when it was opposition, was across, with the exception of New Democracy. So the first conclusion to be drawn is that this party called the New Democracy - today at the wheel of the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping is Giannis Placiotakis - with credibility and consistency, doing what we believe in ideological and worthwhile. We believe in investment, we believe in private initiative, and we prove it once again today. Second one. Let us see some calm elements that are now necessary, because 'COSCO' has been obscured and with what has been heard here all this time shows that it is a monstrous thing, which undermines the public interest, devours the interests of workers, creates unemployment, is responsible for many things. So let us see some elements - my financial capacity gives me the opportunity to move forward and see some of them - which you will hear in the House for the first time. And I'm explaining. From 2016 to 2020 is the time the data will be captured. In the five-year period the average is stable at about three thousand three thousand workers at the Piraeus Port Agency and the Pireaus container section. Midwives, three thousand three hundred workers work for five years. Every year we have this employment. It's not a negligible event. Payroll on an annual basis for these workers is average EUR 120 million per annum. Make a division simple to see that the wages that exist here are much higher than the wages that exist in the labour market more widely in the country. Third element. The total salary paid for payroll over these five years exceeds 0.5 billion. It's 527.627.000 euros and something else. Fourth element. The taxes and duties paid over these five years exceed 77 million. It's 77,061,959 euros. The insurance contributions, the income of the insurance funds for the pensions of workers who come for the benefit of the public are 74,788,000 and the payments to the municipalities - were the municipalities that have been uprooted against 'COSCO' - over EUR 22 million over the last five years. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means that the choice of the Greek state, of the parties over time and of SYRIZA, which you chose to support, to grant 51% of us who defend not only today, but also over time, reliable and consistently the particular investment, was correct. The Greek state has chosen correctly since 1999, consistently, with these specific results, for private initiative. Will you tell me, could it be better? Possibly, if all these years were to have been a different approach to economics. But because you can't always speak for the theory, you compare what was and what was brought about by this investment. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the elements which testify to us for a proper choice of our state and our prolongation, of the New Democracy, which has been stable when and whenever it has been provoked, it has voted 'yes' positively in favour of this investment. We are now going to the specific issue of safeguarding the public interest or not. Opinions were heard that ‘COSCO’, the company, the group, did not proceed to the contractual obligations of EUR 293,7 million. That's a reality. He didn't move on. What should we say in this case? We had to assess why he didn't move on. Should we go and axe and say stop the investment and everything I read before they blow up in the air? Is that how the states work? We need to evaluate the reasons for the failure to implement this programme agreement. Before we go to the causes, however, I will repeat what the political system as a whole accepted as reliable, the "independent engineer". The "independent engineer" - the figures are here recorded - states that the company's contractual obligation was in fact EUR 293,7 million. The Minister said so too, everyone said so. No one's questioning it. Of these, 33.89% of investments have been made, i.e. about 100 million have been made. What's missing? There's 89.85% missing. Question. Has the 'COSCO' group done anything about this? No, he did. He's compromised it. They may not have been implemented on the basis of the facts that prevented them from being implemented, but have compromised, suggesting, on the one hand, the intention and on the other, that this money will actually fall as an investment in the Greek economy. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that does not hide the evil, the hypothon, as you said, the secret, behind this procedure, but indeed the facts that prevented this from being implemented. Is this the first time we've seen here, when we're talking about bills or when we're out, the difficulties of bureaucracy, the problems, the judicial struggles that keep a lot from evolving? Are we from elsewhere? Aren't we aware of the Greek reality? What happened in practice? Quite simply, dozens of actions, reaching the Council of State, from municipalities and citizens against any move, environmental study, investment. These are inhibitors. Of course, it is not just 'COSCO'. Dozens of businesses in our country suffer from this when and whenever they want to put an investment forward and move it forward. I'm not saying they don't have the right. Of course they have the right. But now, let me read a few things about the causes of suspension or non-progression in a faster way of investing. Firstly, compulsory investment of around 46.4 % of compulsory investment has been suspended on the basis of court decisions for more than two and a half years. This fact is undeniable outside the control of PPA SA. It therefore escapes the possibility of the company itself being consistent with what it has signed, not with its own responsibility. Secondly, compulsory investments 3, 4, 7, 10 and 11b could not be implemented until December 2020, due to delays by the Greek State in environmental licensing. These investments account for an additional 19.9% of compulsory investment. Thirdly, from the above -1 and 2 - the total percentage of projects that could not be carried out, for reasons which did not belong to the liability of the PPA up to the beginning of 2021, is 66.3%. Fourthly, on the basis of the report by the independent engineer, the amount of the investments of the Piraeus Port Authority from 2016 to December 2020 amounts to EUR 59,2 million, not taking into account the investment costs incurred for the compulsory investment 0.1 which corresponds to 20,1 % of the total investments and the remaining 33,7 % that was in the control of the PPA to implement. That's the reality. Are we indifferent? Do we close our eyes and say 'that's what you did, your responsibility'? I am not going to remove that there may also be evidence that 'COSCO' itself has made. However, with these elements that I described just before, which are undeniable, it is confirmed that it was without the responsibility of the company, which indicated its intention through the elements of the independent engineer - there was the will, the intention - to move forward and has been prevented. What do we have to do? Stop the investment? Can we stop the evidence that I described before? I see Mr Santorinios saying, 'Of course not'. I'm glad, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u142	But who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u143	16% was the problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u144	Did someone say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u145	...the contractual obligation to grant 16%? I say this very well, Mr Santorinier. Because I see you in front of me, that's what I'm saying. On the same side, I think we are, as far as the public interest is concerned. It's just that you now, and for the sake of micro-economics, you have to say something else. That makes sense. Did the 16% concession under this contract come up? Oh, no. It's 88,000 euros - isn't it, Minister? - revenues from the Treasury with the grant of 16%. It prejudges the 5,000,000 dividend, said by Mr. Raguss, as a loss of the Greek state. It's precedent. So we have a clear road ahead of us, but it's hard. All things go on in our homeland with difficulties, like investments. We know. But, Minister, we must keep this in mind. Nothing is absolutely consecrated in the private sector as well. Everyone wants control of the state. The State must be there to control, observe, fine, control contractual obligations. This is the role of both the Ministry of Shipping and the Government - of each government - of the ministers and the appointed state. This is a state's obligation, as the state's obligation is to open roads to investment. Because whether we want it or not, the only way that can change Greece, the only way that can improve the standard of living of the Greeks, the only way to create jobs that can create well-paid is the way to investment and private initiative, which we must trust them and give them room to exist, to have oxygen, always under the control of legality, because this is also the security for the future for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u148	Oh, you're a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u149	I ask for the floor for a minute on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Raguss...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u151	My name has been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Raguss has spoken. He's spent all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, it has distorted my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u154	There's no staff. Mr. Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u155	He's twisted my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u156	But is there any staff? If we do this job now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u157	A statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Raguss has...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u159	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm not asking any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u160	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Brutsi - and I am not addressing you above all - there has been a huge distortion. Nobody! - and especially myself, because I have mainly taken the burden of the Civic Opposition to place me on the bill, it has not been said to stop the investment. We simply say that the investment must continue, the contract is strong and there is a specific way of determining how the investment will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u162	This is not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u163	Therefore, do not count on us to stop the investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President, very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is clear that we have a two-world conflict. This is not a simple debate on a public contract which must be ratified in the first place, or why it must for formal reasons go through the House. This debate we are having - and I think it also appeared from the evidence presented by our parliamentary representative Mr Brutsis so enthusiasticly, but also from the controversy we have heard all these days and heard in committee - shows that we have two worlds in front of us. We have the world of growth, of work, of prosperity, of the benefit of all, and on the other hand we have the world of misery, of regression, of tolerance and of downloading all downwards. This must be clear and the Greek people must listen to it, because with these choices they will go to the elections, these choices will have to be made, between these two worlds will have to choose and vote. I would like to say that these are not just words, because they are proven by numbers. When six hundred thousands of boxes were moved in 2009 from the PPA, in 2018 4,9 million and in 2019, all five, when the port of Piraeus manages to catch all targets and to be the first in reality - to fight first with Valencia - in the Mediterranean and fifth in Europe and we have achieved such major goals, when in 2009 we had damages to 128,000 turmoil - damage to the PPA, for the first time in its history - and in 2018 we had 133,000 turmoil - about him -42,000 profits, we understand that this is a very successful story. That's exactly the story, I said before, that's where it's crashing. These two pictures of 2009. Of course, I use the latest evidence before the pandemic, because obviously, in the pandemic, things change considerably. But our country has already turned on the machines for after the pandemic and we'll see again catch those kinds of numbers. So you say 'no', ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, because you do not want to see growth, because you fear that this development which reaches the pockets of the Greek people is the one that will exclude your ability to claim its vote, just as we have seen with your opposition to the opening up of tourism all this time. You saw the disasters to the right and to the left, and our country ended up being a global'success story', when Europe is the most developed continent that regained tourism and Greece is the first recovery country in Europe. However, we also have a conflict, ladies and gentlemen, not only between these two worlds. We have a conflict between two SYRIZAs. We have the SYRIZA of Opposition Against the government's SYRIZA. In the past, we had an internal and external KIC, now we have SYRIZA Opposition - SYRIZA government. Me personally, I'm dizzy with the fucking boobs. Since that investment was announced to the government, you have been against this investment, with occupations, closures, etc., so that this investment is not made. Of course, when you were running in 2016, you brought a contract to the House, because we had the Prime Minister's meeting with the President of China, and this matter had to be resolved, otherwise there could not be a high-level visit and meeting. So, we've had the phenomenon of bread - you're in favour of it. Now, again. How many times are you going to dance this pentosal? I remember that the markets would dance pentosal, eventually SYRIZA dances pentosal with these positions, which it changes. Perhaps, therefore, the pressure with these changes will also explain the sloppyness of this contract, which you had at the time. We now have to heal this sloppiness with the bill, which is brought by the Ministry of Shipping and, of course, by the Ministry of Finance. So you say 'no', because you cannot decide what you want. Do you want to rule, or do you want to be permanent in opposition? Do you also think you can say the opposite of what you say when you are opposition when you are government and the Greek people believe you? Decide what you want or separate yourself. Go on the one hand and the opposition on the other, so that we can see who they are and how many are on each side, so that you can have a common line. Ladies and gentlemen, however, let us say a few words in brief on the subject of the convention itself. A lot has been heard about why we are here today, because the government is forced to come to amend this convention. Others speak of delays due to judicial intervention, others say of the coronary that delayed things. There have been too many reasons. So I will tell you that we are here because of the roughness of the previous convention, which had no mechanism for monitoring delays and that we are coming five years later, without having seen any progress reports from the independent engineer every three months, as provided for by this convention, so that we can prevent problems and do not have to come to treat them in this House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's why we're here. We're here by the mistakes of your own government failure in the previous contract. We're here because the previous contract went from white to black. Go from 'all is going well, honey - milk and move on' to 'go straight to arbitration', that is to say, a confrontational process in the end and did not provide for any gradual upsurge in the initial discussion of the settlement and the rest of the stages provided for in this convention. This convention that we are voting on today is the guarantee that we will not have to vote again. Of course, there are things that cannot be predicted. There are judicial decisions. There's a coronary. There is also a global crisis, which has brought up the supply chain. Do you realize that we're watching Great Britain not having fuel? We are seeing shortcomings in the shelves of many countries. There's really a turbulence. Also, another such turmoil that we cannot anticipate now can occur in the coming years and need to be given some specific and partial extension. And that is what this convention provides for, so that we do not have to come here every three or a little. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So here we are not talking about a contractor, who is new, new, new, and now came to our country. 'COSCO' has made more than EUR 600 million of investment. We know he can make the investments. We know he's going to make these investments. We know they've already begun. We therefore come here to give the necessary time to ensure that all the problems of the past which were not naturally in the control of the Greek public in many cases, of course, nor 'COSCO', are healed. Finally - do I close with this - is this extension process and the fact that we give the shares and get the best price? Of course, it is the best possible one, because at the moment what is happening is that the money is going to the HICP and these shares go into escrow and will automatically come back to the HIDE if the investments are not completed automatically, without arbitration and without any other way. So I conclude by saying that this is where we came to cure the weaknesses and contradictions of SYRIZA Opposition and SYRIZA government. The Greek Government ensures the interests of the Greek State with this convention. Indeed, not only does it ensure, but it ensures that development comes to every household in a region that is very vulnerable and needs such growth, for which, otherwise, you are only cut off. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u166	The next speaker is Mr Ioannis Michael Loverdos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today does not only concern a contract between the Greek public and the 'COSCO'. For me, it's much more important and important. It is about the very nature and functioning of our economy and our society in Greece. You know, this bill is an opportunity for the huge differences that separate our own ideologically and politically, New Democracy, which currently has the majority of the Greek people on its side and the groups of Anti-Population. It is characteristic that all opposition parties have objected to the 'COSCO' investment, not now, but for many years now. I don't forget what even PASOK was saying at Giorgos Papandreou or even SYRIZA. Mr Dritsa will speak shortly, which will remind us that as Minister for Commercial Shipping he was against 'COSCO', but he also had to be in favour of it. It's a completely different approach. We are in favour of private investment. We are in favour of the free market. We are in favour of not placing the Greek State at an excessive cost, at the expense of our children and future generations. That is what we have all done - poorly, poorly - for forty years and undermining the future of our country. That's why we went bankrupt ten years ago. This had to change and change slowly, not easily. It's hard to change, because there's a lot of resistance. You see, statism and populism are powerful and not just for the Left. Is that right? There are also right-wings who are state-run and populist. But since the issue of 'COSCO' is very interesting, it is interesting that while investors come from a country that is supposed to be socialist, socialists are against it. Anyway, it's against any foreign or domestic investment or private sector. They don't want private investment in Greece. What can we do? I totally understand that. It's another angle, it's another philosophy, another ideology, completely different things. However, I would remind you, because I have heard a lot of and absurdly that it has been said - let us say - by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Ragonis that 'COSCO' will be a shipyard and will undermine the shipbuilding zone of Perama. Do you know who undermined Perama's ship repair zone and effectively destroyed it? The left with the constant, inviting, unprovoked and funny strikes that caused all that. Do you know who led to the destruction of the shipyards, which we cannot yet save and fight for years to save the shipyards of Elefsina, Scaramaga, Syros? All those statemen who charged the shipyards at an excessive cost! Imagine that for the first time the Elefsina shipyard, which had been taken back then, in the 1980s-1990s -- if you remember well, the Peratikos family. Then they murdered people. That's where we arrived, they murdered an investor. Anyway. Then there were more administrative staff in the shipyard than the workers, the workers who made the ships and there was even a regularity allowance, that is, that you go every day to work. You were getting an allowance for going to work. This state we had built. Not to tell you what was going on in the PPA for many years, which had arrived at some port workers taking more than the President of the Ice Bay took. This was the truth to the detriment of the state as a whole, to the detriment of the national economy and to the detriment of future generations. This truth, which we feel has happened badly, we want to change it. We want to make a country realistic, living from what it is making and not from credit. We want to make a country productive and competitive so that we have a product that comes out and sells it out. We want a country that is the gateway to the European Union and that is what we will achieve by becoming a great port, as it is and should be Piraeus. We will not let 'COSCO' do what she wants in any way. After all, the Minister, Mr. Plakkatakis, and the representatives of the New Democracy have explained to you in detail that, contrary to the bill, what is being voted today is being protected and is not being undermined by the interests of the Greek State. But you have a different approach. I listened very well to the rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Santorinio, whom I very much appreciate, saying "we had to sign the 2016 Convention". That says everything, 'committed', they did not because they wanted it, because others - I suppose he meant the lenders - had to sign it. We don't have to make this law. This law was brought by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with Minister Giannis Pakisotakis, in order to protect the interests of the Greek State and to proceed with the investment in "COSCO" in the best possible way, so that the port of Piraeus is the gateway to the European Union and is a port that will make us all proud and strong for a better future for our country and the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u168	The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Markopoulos from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard before Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis, who is with Mr Symmarlene, the only two Members of Parliament who are currently on the side of SYRIZA in the Chamber - SYRIZA is being cut off for this important bill and a fundamental agreement! - to invoke - and indeed - that he is resident of Piraeus and as Piraeus knows the zone. I too am Piraeus, as you know very well, Mr Alexiadis, and so I am sorry to say so. I heard before Mr Santorinios, I heard Mr Ragosi, I heard you say, "you have raised a fourth pier, you have raised a matter for the shipyards, for the construction of a shipyard at “COSCO”". Did you read this contract at all? Did you read the bill? Have you read what we're talking about today? You're out of the question! Nobody's talking about a shipyard. The red line has been set by the Minister himself clearly. No one talks about a fourth pier. As far as Keracini is concerned, I heard these tears. You know this style, "The Drapter no longer has life", the Second Piraeus has taken it back, it has not taken it forward. I've heard that the containers will be there and the world will be afflicted and watched by the containers. Is this a matter that has been raised today? Unless, Minister, if we are discussing something else, we have something else, and we have not been informed, because I think we have taken all the documents. So you're out of the question. Yesterday morning at the competent Parliamentary Committee on Production and Trade we had a very fruitful, very interesting and honest debate. We have heard all the opinions, heard truths. We have heard - to admit it, because we have said that today, Mr Alexiadis, piracy - problems. It's not all pomegranate at the port, we'll agree. It never was. In life things are not always pomegranate. On the other hand, however, we should also be honest, we should also see the overall footprint of this investor. Also, I'm gonna tell you not to play insurgents and don't make the Chinese, since you want to go talk a little bit about the investor. You know, you are today finding what you were running for in 2016 to prevent. Go on - I remember - Mr. Tsipras in China and speed up, arrogantly, to make this agreement you. Don't make us the Chinese and don't lie to us! Do you know what you did to 'COSCO'? You've had your birthday! You had a Dragon there saying something to do, and in the end he was always picking him up on Maximus. That is why I will repeat it for the third time: 'The Chinese' to us here 'You will not do them'! Did you legislate in 2016 under procedures - express, and you play it here, honorers? So 'COSCO', ladies and gentlemen, to explain ourselves, because we live in Piraeus every day, is a reality. It is a reality which is judged and which is here. Since it is true, this reality is called upon to manage it. It's not easy, it's complicated. He's an investor with another philosophy, like all investors. Anyone who comes to Greece doesn't have the Greek mentality. Here, then, the Minister and his staff are giving a battle and keep a balance, as is done all over the planet and all the investments. This contract is not extended to the foot. It is a trading product, as always - I will repeat - all over the planet. There's been a consultation. It's a discussion. It is clear that the break with a large investor with a global footprint is not an option. I heard Mr. Santorinios too - if I'm not mistaken - saying, "we...", he also lifted his hands. So the break is not an option. I did not hear any of the institutional pirates say so yesterday, nor did you. You want a break? Tell us. A country that wants more investors can therefore not send contradictory messages. Of course, because you are also a force which constantly invokes the worker in your equation - I will go to the other equation - it must be taken into account for the thousands of workers working in the port and the jobs have been increased. He has to get into the equation, because they're working, too. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I also say this for the New Democracy colleagues - it is not a white cheque. We've shown and we'll see it again if necessary that we're here to negotiate and negotiate hard with the investor. And if you want, the 'COSCO' must listen more to the port. As an investor, he must bend over user issues, see infrastructure, speed up investment, - and why not - better relations with local society and professionals. No one is above criticism, and the New Democracy and the Ministry are always in the public interest. We therefore need to improve the level of integration of investment. The 'COSCO' must become more social and, to say it differently, become more piracy. But that is not a small thing, which has occurred in recent years in our port. There has been an increase in the number of jobs. Piraeus is a competitive port at a pan-European level. There's been an increase in container handling. Greece is now a hub - to say my English too - a centre in terms of trafficking. Let us not reduce these successes, because we do not reduce the investor, we reduce those who work on the investor and the investor working Greeks. But this does not take away the right, as a pirate society, to seek the best, to seek respect. So get away from unnecessary crowns. We are moving on to a convention which will allow the development of the port and the continuation of investment in the country. They are not affected - I repeat - the red lines which society and local entrepreneurship have long been putting in place. There is respect for this bill for the concerns of ship repair and the people of Keratini and Perama. Don't work for the world of the Second Piraeus, don't work for the worker. He knows very well and as Mr Yannis Loverdou said very well, you have troubled him with your ideas. The ship repair zone has been squeezed and responsible - I will say that - and the KIC, except for the Left as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me one or two minutes, like everyone else, Mr. President. Do not trouble the port again with unnecessary mobilizations. You've troubled it. The second Piracy of these actions has been diluted. Is there an intent to run the investments faster? Yeah. Would you like some things to be done faster? Clearly. Are we drinking as a government for this? Obviously. However, let us not annul an overall effort with populism. Let's not be distracted. Whoever has, at the bottom of the scripture, suggest something different, say it. Tell us, Mr. Santorinier, to leave the 'COSCO'? I look forward to your reply with interest and sincerely say so. You suggest the SYRIZA ruptures and court struggles, you who signed everything. The complaint when you are opposition is easy, but not a complaint about what you were promoting as a government. Let's get this straight. So the government - as Giannis Plakkatakis clearly said - is giving up to five years to implement compulsory investments with the possibility of suspension, only for certain specific cases. Why do you change that? Why are you saying something that doesn't exist? Only for excellent reasons will it be done. The road will open to 88m euros in the state funds and to complete things. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say more about the port of Piraeus, because we live every day. For this agreement, our government and the Minister negotiated intensively, hard, completely. Arbitration may sound heroic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Marcopoulou, please complete. We gave you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u171	I'll be done. Other colleagues have taken more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u172	Please. You can't set your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u173	I know I gave you a little bit of a KIC...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u174	Your time will not be determined by you. Please finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u175	I'm done, I'm done. That is why we support this bill, because it is operational. Obviously, we don't give anywhere, and that must be understood from all sides. However, we cannot choose nebulous and populist solutions that lead to nowhere, as they have previously led the ship repair zone to nowhere, Mr President, from the JRC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u176	Please close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u177	You're unacceptable. Your attitude is clear because I referred to your party. He can't stand the truths of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u178	The next speaker is Mr Maravegias Konstantinos from New Democracy, then Mr. Stamenitis Dionysios and then Mr. Scandalidis Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. I would ask all the speakers very much for their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is working intensively to make use of the country's large commercial and tourist ports. The tools in this effort are the agreements with international partners to grant ports such as Piraeus, the amendment of the agreement, which we are debating today, of course. Of course, Greece, Mr. Minister, it's not just Athens. So Piraeus is not the only big port in the country. In Magnesia we have the largest port of Central Greece in Volos, at the same time being one of the largest ports of the southern Balkans. This fact is a valuable comparative advantage for our country, which we must exploit. Yesterday's strategic agreement between Greece and France also creates new data for the wider marine area, the responsibility of which is our country. This is a very great national success, which will have the effect of extending the Greek limits of liability to air and sea. Our new defence capabilities will enable us to secure conditions of peaceful and constructive coexistence with all our neighbours, even those who have not cooperated with the European Union sincerely. A new era is now rising for the eastern landlocked with unobstructed transit trade, with security for the networked interconnectors of energy resources and coastal areas of different countries in the region. Greece is thus preparing for this future by extending the maritime transport routes which pass through our country. A key pillar of this policy is the strengthening of our port infrastructure by attracting foreign investments and facilitating their implementation. In this respect, the amended provisions we are discussing extend by five years from the transfer of 16% of the share capital the period of completion of the first compulsory investment PPA agreed in 2016. I would stress that this time facility does not rebut any of the other consequences of compulsoryity. On the contrary, it also puts new safeguards in order to develop the port infrastructure of Piraeus, not only to become a reality, but also to be accompanied by the next phase of compulsory investment and before the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the amended concession agreement. Minister, we are talking - quite rightly - about works at the port of Piraeus, but as I said before, we must say a few words about other projects in other major ports, such as the city, which I have the honour of representing. A characteristic example is the LPG storage unit, which took a few days ago the first approval by the Energy Regulatory Authority, an investment estimated at USD 400 million and will be a unit of 100 thousand cubic metres capacity for the regasification of liquefied natural gas in Magnesia. This installation will be accompanied by electricity generation and a combined capacity of 300 MW, which will undoubtedly enhance the energy security of the region. The important element of funding, of course, other than obvious, is time. This is a parameter, which, until recently, we did not do very well. However, as the strategic agreement reached yesterday by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis with France, our country can now move flexibly and especially quickly on the international scene, take initiatives and align foreign interests with its own, move confidently, placing Greece in the position it deserves on the international stage. In the same spirit, the rapid use of rapid developments, which we see in the global economy too, must move on as far as the timing of investment is concerned, because it is not enough to motivate or simplify authorisations. It's important when we do all this. So the port of Volos does not only have a future. It also has a very lively present in a series of projects, which are already being done to improve equipment and infrastructure. As soon as yesterday, the transfer of the scrap activity was also part of the ESDP, a 2.9m euros budget project that makes the PPA an environmentally responsible partner of local society, reducing the impact of its move to the city. In the direction of maximising the existing capacity of the port, the recent acquisition of a new self-propelled crane of 125 tonnes of the largest available port Volos, costing 3m euros, as well as last year's supply of a unique container stacking vehicle, investments that change the data in port equipment Volos. In conclusion, I would like to refer to an issue of topicality, because of the Recovery Fund and not just. This is the time-limit for connecting the port to the railway network of the country, which, of course, does not only concern the Ministry of Shipping but also the Ministry of Infrastructure. The port of Volos, although the country's third largest trading port, has so far not exploited all its interconnecting capabilities with both Volos BEPEs and industrial concentration in Almyros. There are many extroverted production companies looking for new markets for their products from processed metals as processed agricultural products. Also, in the wider central Greece, there are the industrial areas of Larissa, Karditsa and Lamia, as well as several production units outside industrial areas, which use PPA services and, of course, would also benefit from rail access to Volos port. Therefore, Minister, the full connection with the national rail and road network as well as the airport of Nea Anchialos, which covers all of Greece, must remain our main objective, because not only will it reduce the cost of transporting products and raw materials for the productive forces of Thessaly, but will also create new prospects for the OLAF, as the main commercial port of central Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Mr Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we were government from 2015 to 2019 you accused us of taxing what it is walking and flying, of neglecting, of course, that many of the measures of governance of that period were coercive products to hit on the left and threaten the neoliberal model of the European Union. I would remind you, however, that we, with this policy and the compromises, have taken the country out of the memorials, regulated the public debt, left the funds of the country with a very high stock, the financial pillow of EUR 37 billion, which guaranteed us at the time of the pandemic high credibility and low-priced lending, that is, we guaranteed the public interest of both the country and the citizens. On the contrary, for two years now, without budgetary compelling, without stability pacts, which impose a narrow corset on the countries of the European Union, what are you doing? You are privatising and handing over to the dark and opaque interests of everything that ensures the public interest, energy networks, such as gas and electricity, infrastructure, social services and what remains under public control in that country, with the last clear example of PPC, while you do not guarantee either what is hard negotiations we have managed to ensure on the better contracts that you have been able to sign, such as 'COSCO', which we are debating today. What is being done today is an unbelief, since you are dismissing fundamental rights of the public interest, without the conditions of the contract being fulfilled, i.e. unsuccessful obligations for certain investments, which must have been carried out at specific time limits and have not been made, nor are you, of course, claiming any clauses which in these cases are foreseen when signs of the signed conventions are unsuccessful. Our rapporteur, the Parliamentary spokesman and all the SYRIZA speakers - a Progressive Alliance that preceded, analysed and documented with sufficient and complete evidence of infidelity. I would just briefly like to repeat some of the things that are making an eye on the most reliable and objective observer. The revised 2016 Convention provided for investments of 294 million from the PPA in critical sectors for the economy, such as road connections, projections, construction projects to assist ship repair within five years of the entry into force of the Convention. According to the data we have had to date, the final tradition, which was to take place on 11 August 2021, did not take place in at least two thirds - from what was recorded as well - with what we had left and ensured by the revised convention, what we had achieved in terms of the share capital of the PPA to remain in the Greek State as a guarantee for 'COSCO' to carry out the compulsory investments in the short term. So we managed to make the crucial change from selling 67% to being at 51%. We have also guaranteed the small and medium-sized enterprises involved in the operation of the PPA. Third, the public service’s nature for the ferry was recognised, as the PPA cannot increase the port fees and in general the tariffs for the ferry, without the agreement of the Ministry of Shipping. Fourthly, we have ensured, at work, the possibility of transferring the PPA workers and also, in the ratification law of the convention, a written commitment that the new property will comply with all the requirements of the applicable laws and regulations. Finally - I say the main points, because there are others - we have established the public principle of ports according to the standards of European port policy, where the phenomenon of concessions prevails over privatization. You will have heard about port services and autorita del porto,+ - as we call it in our neighbour Italy, in order to institutionalise the provision of port services and to protect the public interest. Since you are eminent Europeanists, you decided within one night to abolish the public authority of ports, leaving the surveillance of public services in the port on the air. You have degraded RAL and ESAL and turned them into narrow governmental organs. Now, what are you doing with today's contract? Under Article 1, the Government is responsible for the fact that the Greek State is responsible for the delays in compulsory investment and that the PPA S.A. is not liable at all. This misleading argument now goes on to amend the terms of the contract in order to ensure that compulsory investment works are carried out. This act, the taking over of liability by the Greek State, constitutes an abusive act by the Government and constitutes an infringement of duty. ‘COSCO’ is trying to lay down responsibilities for delays in the realisation of investments either to the Greek public or to the judicial citizens. But all the speakers have shown you, our own, the previous speakers, that there is no responsibility for the approval of environmental studies or for the authorisations of public services. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a minute. In addition, extensions are given in the times that the PPA has to deliver on the projects of compulsory investment. The second most scandalous amendment, which passes through this convention: the New Democracy abolishes the possibility of imposing criminal clauses so far not achieving the minimum level of service for another year by turning the tolerance period from the three years provided for in the original contract into six years. For the next period - listen - listen - criminal clauses will only be paid if the PPA does not show that it has taken all measures to achieve the minimum level of work. Of course, it is not described in whom and how it will prove that. It is therefore a complete dismissal of the legitimate rights of the Greek State and its resignation from elementary safeguards. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, why do you ask yourself why a major part of the Greek people now calls you, instead of a government of the New Democracy, "Government of a public limited company" in order to resolve and serve the most powerful private interests of domestic and foreign? So you're wondering. One last. What are you going to do, Mr Staikora - you are not here - with the amendment we have tabled on reducing fuel consumption tax? Will you vote for it or will you reject it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u182	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of 26-7-2021 amendment and replacement of it by 3-6-2019 individual Donation Convention for Project VI of 6-9-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Customs Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health and its annexes and other urgent provisions for the treatment of Coronovirus Pandemic COVID -19". We will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to change the climate of the debate a little and to see, on the occasion of the Greek-French agreement, the big picture and to link it to what has been said in the region, the Chinese strategy and this agreement. It is clear that major changes and reallocations of political power are currently under way at global level. It is no coincidence that the Pacific Agreement of the notorious 'AUKUS', which carries the centre of gravity from Europe to Central and Eastern Asia and from the Atlantic to the Pacific, is directed towards the modern confrontation of the West with China. It is also a strategy, which has been designed since the 1990s in the United States. There have been many writings about this from brains that draw this strategy. There is no justification for European illusion, when all of a sudden France loses a great economic price, a great sales price, and we find that Europe has not moved forward in its single defence policy and its single foreign policy, so that it can be a player in this global confrontation on the new map that is trying to build. All of a sudden, with the political changes that are taking place in Europe, it is clear that the issues will be raised. I hope, not at the rate so far, that is, in two years' time we will discuss the changes that need to be made to the European Union, and from now on we are opening the debate and we will once get the European Parliament and the European institutions to make a decision. I do not judge the Greek-French agreement at the economic level, with which we may have disagreements. In my opinion, it is a positive development, since it strengthens the deterrent power of the country and, above all, once it consolidates the mutual assistance agreement. It is a critical aspect of the national strategy to strengthen the country's deterrent capacity. The five-year defence cooperation agreement with the United States will be signed tomorrow. This means that Greece makes the choice of developing its deterrent force at a critical moment and after the problems that have arisen in recent years and the exacerbation of the external threat, as well as the interests that conflict in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is clear that the country must pursue its geostrategic upgrading in the region and not only concerns strengthening its deterrent force, but a comprehensive renegotiation of its role in its alliances. I believe that this objective is the modern Greek objective for the next few years, which should bring together the political forces of the country in the development of a new multilateral national strategy, not only with active diplomacy and the development of deterrent power, but also with wider aggressive initiatives that relate to the role of Greece and the European Union and the Eastern Mediterranean. The role of China in the region has been strategically determined for too long. It wants to see China's entry bridge on the economic and commercial level and infrastructure to Europe. I think it is a consistent strategy for its own interests, and we need to see it in the context of a multi-dimensional policy, but with clear awareness of the relationships that currently exist in the region. Where are the questions raised? I'll get an example. In recent years, two trips have been made by Greek Prime Ministers in Washington, in my opinion, without political and economic exchanges. The negotiating method brought the new defence agreement, which will be signed shortly, to widen bases and new bases in the country. Greece is a consistent ally, but it should also benefit from politically, not simple declarations for the wider regions and how good we are with international law, but also our interests, which are at stake. It should also have financial compensation, such as an investment of added value in the war industry, technological development and so on. In other words, in investments that have not only a market relationship between us and the Americans, but also a wider one for the productive restructuring of the country and the opportunities that are being opened before us. Other countries negotiate and have such benefits as Turkey, for example. So this way of negotiating in my opinion is incomplete. I'm coming to this. This, unfortunately, shows, once again, a conservative government to be retreat and to be unable to defend the public interest, because it is clear that the agreements are signed to be implemented. There are usually arrangements in this House which, in fact, prevent the country's self-evident right to demand that the economic conditions and consequences be applied to the failure to fulfil the agreed conditions. This is not the first time that the 'COSCO' case is about such a negotiation. The same was done with the airport, the same was done with the Attica Road, from earlier procedures, which, in essence, prevented resources that the country had to collect and development options that it could implement in order to continue a heterogeneous agreement. To avoid misunderstanding, 'COSCO' is welcome, but it should be consistent with its obligations. I'll tell you something wider. Today China has a huge growth rate in relation to the West. Whether we are talking about the product of the European Union or the United States is a huge growth rate. It cannot, with this clear superpower and power, respond to essential small investments, which must be made, on the basis of the agreements. This is about negotiation. Let me also say something more 'extremist'. I am unable - and this concerns all governments, not only today - to understand, even though Chinese products are welcome everywhere and have flooded Europe and our country, that, in the centre of Athens, a substantial ghetto can be made, duty-free in the presence and input of products and under the vigilante eyes of the Greek authorities to trade without any type of control. We give the image of a country that is subordinate, which in the name of influencing resources inside it, gives land and water. Giving land and water today does not help Greece to gain the strength needed to play its role in the wider region and its economic and development role. So I think - and here the rapporteur has told us very thoroughly about the agreement, which we cannot vote on - that we must stop being so humiliated and that we cannot actually say - indirectly or indirectly, it does not matter - that the 'COSCO' is right, that the agreement has not been implemented and that the investments that have to be made have not been made. This does not help nor honor the country. I think it is time to discuss very seriously what will happen from now on in the region, in a climate of consensus for Greece to have the strategy needed for the coming years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We shall now give the floor to Mr Dionysio Stamenitis, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before my position begins, I too should like to send my wishes to our fellow citizens in Crete, who were hit by a very strong seismic phenomenon, and today we have had a repetition of the phenomenon, and to condone our family and fellow citizens, who have lost their lives. Yesterday, however, was also a very important day for our country, a historic day for Greece and France. They deserve congratulations to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the ministers. Greece has steadily increased its role as a guarantor of stability and security in the regions of the Eastern Mediterranean over the last two years. And this is a product of coordinated and organised work, which we see will work. Coming now to the subject of today's debate, which is to amend the concession contract on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus, between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority, I will initially focus on its objective, which is to ensure the smooth execution of the contract and the settlement of the issue of the delay of the compulsory investments in the first period. Amendments necessary to avoid a future risk, in addition to delays and uncertainty, which would result in the Contracting Parties resorting to the Western resolution of their disputes by the amended contracts. No one disagrees that in such a case the Greek State would be faced with adverse economic consequences due to the failure to implement the first compulsory investments and would be faced with compensation for 'COSCO' due to the delay. Moreover, as is clear from the text and as the Ministers responsible have pointed out, these amendments focus on and are limited to what is strictly necessary for the circumstances, so as not to reverse its contractual balance resulting from the amended conventions. What do we have in a few words? We have ensured investment in combination with safeguarding the interests of the Greek public and, by extension, the Greek citizens. Personally, I will not dwell on the details of the contract. They have been adequately analysed by both the ministers and the majority rapporteur. Let me comment on the political aspect of the debate, which is taking place on the occasion of this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear these days of fellow SYRIZA Members' position, and indeed, former Ministers, who are obviously trying to justify their choice in 2016, so that today they can make the known sterile opposition. I can tell them that once again this is our difference with SYRIZA. We in the New Democracy believe in investment. That is why we can be effective, always for the benefit of the Greek public and Greek citizens. SYRIZA on the other hand does not believe in investment nor does he, however, have an alternative proposal for the development of the economy and the welfare of society. No alternative that can be read with the current challenges, respond to them and ultimately be able to pay off. Your period of governance was a black page in this area too, of investments. You have, as you say, had to proceed in 2006 with an agreement which you have never actually supported in practice. Of course, you have proved that you too recognise the country's progress and development as appropriate. That is why, instead of coming here today, but also in the past few days, at committee meetings and denounced, tried and levelled everything, blame the ministers with heavy characterisations, it would be good to see whether and how you can be useful in counter-population. But you are caught in your ideas, which, together with your inefficiency, make you detrimental to the interests of the country. We proved it to be a government that failed miserably. What to learn from your things first? Should we remember the 'TRAINOSE' you gave it for 50m euros, while the offer to the Government of Samaras was at least 300, or should we remember the well-known issue that has now arisen in the management of PPC? Subject for which you are now tearing your clothes as supposedly protectors of the public interest. After reaching the edge of the cliff, which you received with profits of EUR 90 million, you are now coming to blame us for a sale. In other words, you see a sale in the capital increase and in the multiplication of PPC's share. While you saw it all well when in 2019 with your own operations, PPC's costs were eight and nine times more revenues and stock exchange value was under 300 million of the billions that were in 2014. Not to mention the figures and figures. You know them very well, regardless of whether or not today as an Opposition you appear to have come to the country two years ago. Dear and dear colleagues, the Greek people in the elections on 7 July 2019 trusted with their vote on the New Democracy for the governance of the country, giving a clear command to bring the Greek economy back to development, to alleviate social injustices and to work so that we can finally overcome the sufferings of the past. In order to achieve these objectives, one of the main roads that we must follow is to attract foreign investment, but also to ensure a successful development and implementation of existing investments. That is what we believe in the New Democracy. That is what the government has done so far, despite the difficulties and external crises, we have done very well. Improving the economic climate in Greece, the figures for growth in the economy, which reached 16.2% in the second quarter of the year, lending at zero rates, and the estimate for growth at 5.9% in 2021, which is expected to be higher, are inconsistent elements that justify the policy mix, followed by the current government, which defends the entire New Democracy Parliament and the entire Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the convention we are calling today to ratify ensures that large investment is made in the port of Piraeus, an investment that is crucial to the country and local society through the creation of thousands of jobs, as well as the overall recovery of the region's image. It is an investment that is important for the economy of the country, and finally, an investment of particular strategic importance, as it improves the geostrategic position in our wider region. So this is the big question today. Are we with such an investment? Do we want it to be completed? Are we in the public interest? Do we want Greece a strong country? We in the New Democracy respond 'yes'. Unfortunately, you in SYRIZA respond 'no'. That is why we are voting for this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u186	Now Mr. Kalamatianos Dionysius has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today we are discussing another bill that you grant the property of the Greek people. Now that we have no economic strangulation, now that we have no memoirs, since we came out of them in August 2018, now that the government has a pan-European budgetary relaxation, it decides and chooses and moves forward in urban privatizations to serve great business interests. It sells power generation to PPC, sells DEDDI networks, IPTO and the natural gas network, PPC. It obviously does not choose to strengthen the public and its tools to formulate and implement development policies. It is obvious that it does not work for the public interest and the large social majority. It acts in the interests of the few, the interest of those who want to protect the public property at a low price. And I come to the bill. Because a lot has been heard, I will repeat some facts in order to understand the context. It is clear and given that anyone who really wants to see the truth that in 2016, in fiscal suffocation and at the expense of the commitments that your governments had committed the country, SYRIZA managed to negotiate and bring an amended agreement between Greek public and “COSCO”, an agreement that benefits the social and public interest. I would point out, for example, that the implementation of investments of EUR 294 million from the PPA to critical sectors of the economy, including ship repair, has been ensured. In order to ensure the realisation of these investments and the company's obligations, we managed to maintain an additional 16% share capital of the PPA in the Greek State. The previous government, your government, was committed to selling 67% of the PPA. We managed to keep 16% of this percentage in the public for five years and then transfer it under conditions. This means that the Greek State has continued for at least five years to collect EUR 5 million a year for a port that you committed for the total and direct sale. We managed to ensure the exclusion and concession of important spaces for local society and economy, for municipalities, for local administration, for the Municipality of Piraeus, for Keratini, for Drapetsonas, for Perama and for Salamis. We managed to secure spaces and buildings, such as the Port Guard School building. We were able to ensure that port ships were made in the port of Piraeus which had been using for decades, otherwise there was a risk that the port rent would be paid to beam its vessels. In addition, we have guaranteed workers' working rights. The public nature of the ferry was recognised and the investor could not increase tariffs unreasonably and profitably. And what do you guys do now? You grant this 16% and you cause serious harm to the interests of the public, to the interests of the residents of Piraeus, to the interests of all Greek citizens and businesses. You have heard what the operators, the representatives of entrepreneurship and local government stand against these methods, but you continue to be indifferent. And you do this when the PPA has not implemented the contractual obligations for the compulsory investments that should have been completed by 11-8-2021. You are well aware that, under the contract, you had to charge criminal clauses, to discount the guarantee letter on the part of the non-enforcement of the contract, to transfer the outstanding of these compulsory investments to the second investment period. Instead of doing all of this, which is of course provided for in the contract, you go and hand over 16% of the share capital, and you know that in order to do so the company had to have realised a set of compulsory investments, and you know that until now the company has only contributed 38% of what it had to contribute by the end of the investment period of five years in order to make these compulsory investments. So while it has not done all of this, you and the contract admit that it is not the company's responsibility or that we do not have all these compulsory investments for five years. You did so before the Court of Auditors, as described in its decision. In other words, you will adopt the company's claims. And then you say that you are protecting the public interest, that you are caring and fighting for it, while in fact you have adopted the company's claims, and you say that it will go to arbitration, and you yourself have admitted these claims in advance. And you do this while you know that there is the report of the independent engineer who describes the company's compulsory investments. When you know that this report shows that the burden of responsibility for their failure to implement them has been borne by the company. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that with this bill you are giving everything to the PPA and making it powerful. You could maintain the percentage you grant, extend the contract, force the company to implement its contractual obligations. You don't do that. You are blocking the big public weapon to force the company to make the investments it owes, you are blocking the big gun that has the public to force the company to respect the quality of life of the residents and our cultural heritage, you are blocking the great weapon we have to protect Piraeus, its residents, commercial businesses and ship repairs that are operating there. We are interested in defending the public interest and we have proved it. We are interested in the survival of businesses and households. That is why we also propose, with amendment, that excise duties be reduced to basic goods. You are selling everything that has been left as a key strategic tool in the hands of the public for the exercise of development and investment policy, privatising everything. Follow this agenda that is failed and obsolete. You have taken a country full of funds and you will hand over a country which is pierced by particular private interests. Citizens will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. We shall now give the floor to Mr Ioannis Andrianos from the New Democracy. Mr Boutsikakis will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, my colleague, the citizens will respond because they know and will vote for the New Democracy again, since today's debate is on the day of the signing of the Greek strategic partnership agreement on defence and security cooperation. This is therefore a historic agreement, which is coming to confirm the strong partnership and alliance between the two countries, but also to confirm that Greece and France have the will and the ability to take the lead on the path we need for our continent towards European strategic autonomy, which certainly does not replace but complement and strengthen the transatlantic alliance. At a time when huge geopolitical changes are taking place, our country, with serious preparation, is constantly increasing its position in the wider region, substantially strengthening its deterrent capacity and shaping broad alliances on the basis of international law and common interests to those who seek to exploit this global upheaval at the expense of Greece, of course, and of international legality. The New Democracy under Kyriakos Mitsotakis once again demonstrates that it is the political power of the major national choices, the political power that can serve consistently, strategicly and effectively the interests of the country and society. And on this point, as we speak of strategic policy, a policy which is directly related to the strategies followed by our country, I would like to point out the following: When the Government of New Democracy and Kostas Karamanlis promoted the strategic relationship between Greece and China, which as a key axis had the investment of 'COSCO' in the port of Piraeus, it then found the whole opposition to it. The same happened in 2014 when this effort was continued by the government with a trunk of New Democracy and Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. All possible ways were therefore in place to cancel this investment, with opposition parties leaders taking part in demonstrations. Of course, since both PASOK and SYRIZA took over the country's governance, they have not in practice questioned the correctness of this strategic option, with the culmination of signing the contract in 2016 by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. We must first of all, since they have heard about the same criticisms made in the committee again, and then we must remember and remember the dimension between opposition practice and the choices of the same political forces when they were at the wheel of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the convention we are about to ratify answers a real issue. Since 2016 there have been delays in the implementation of the first compulsory investments. In the last two years, the Government of New Democracy has taken concrete steps to make better progress in this area. The development master plan was approved for port management. The environmental impact study has been approved. The SWEDEN was designated as the starting point for the strategic environmental impact assessment, which was submitted for approval. At the same time, a number of judgments are pending including applications for suspension, appeals, applications for suspension after rejection of actions, applications for annulment against the tender, interventions, applications for annulment against the authorisation, provisional order applications, applications for interim measures and so on. Of course, under no circumstances do I question the constitutionally guaranteed right of recourse to justice. However, I would stress that the delay in adopting this kind of decision is, according to the relevant international indicators, a problem with regard to our country's attractiveness in foreign investments. The new agreement is therefore the result of the two parties' conscious choice to make use of the possibility of a friendly settlement, avoiding the time-consuming involvement in arbitration. For this purpose, a five-year extension is set for the execution of compulsory investments and the specific events that suspend their implementation are identified. At the same time, it ensures the right to veto the TSED by its member represented in the PPA administration, while the State receives 88 million from the transfer of 16% of the shares in TDIDE to 'COSCO', in conjunction with the additional guarantee letter of EUR 15 million paid by 'COSCO' to the HIAD and the provision of a 16% refund to the HIAD, in the event of failure to implement the mandatory investments with the fault of 'COSCO' or PPA, fully and effectively guaranteeing the interests of the public as well as the strategic importance of this great investment. This is, in short, a reasonable and necessary arrangement, necessary and on the basis of the content of the 2016 contractual text that ensures the development of the port and the wider region, preventing a long period of uncertainty and judicial disputes that would lead to a certain ending, but also seriously undermined the further efforts to attract major investment in our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr Andriano, and the consistency in time. We will now give the floor to Mr Boutsikokakis Christoforo from the New Democracy. As we said before, Mr Karathanasopoulos, a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, will be followed by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras. Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is forming a state which is on its way to tomorrow, a state which is on its way to the future, a state which is serving the citizen, supports labour, promotes entrepreneurship, investment and development. In the first two years of governance we have restored our country's credibility internationally. With the new investment laws we simplified procedures, encouraged the development of business activity, with the aim of creating new jobs, restoring the national economy and ultimately the better life of all Greeks. Thanks to these policies, we have gained market confidence, and we are already a pole of flagship investments. As you know, in November 2019 we signed sixteen new agreements to attract new investments and capital from China, which did not come as SYRIZA was in the government. In the context of these agreements, therefore, all parties have committed themselves to overcoming the obstacles to the implementation of the 'COSCO' investment programme for the port of Piraeus, and in addition we have launched a new round of projects. However, signing agreements has no value on its own, if they are left on paper only, as happened in 2016 with the governance of SYRIZA. The signing of agreements must be accompanied by ongoing initiatives for their overall and uninterrupted implementation. The delay in implementing your own agreement is now coming us and we face it, because together with the agreements that we later signed, our aim is to move forward and complete this colossal investment. Instead of wondering, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are not here either from the First or from the Second Piraeus, as are we, who were here in the Chamber or by teleconferencing and attending your talks, it would be nice to tell us what you were doing about these investments. We know very well that you do not want any great work to be done in the country, you do not want any development and obviously neither the welfare of the country. As you have shown while you were in the government, your policy is a poor people who will live only with benefits. I have heard - if you will allow me - Mrs Agathopoulos to say on television that they will, Minister, make the major investments that our Government is promoting. I mean, instead of going forward to the place, they'll take him 50 years back. But that ends here. The economy is recovering, the living level of the Greeks is rising and you are definitely in the past. The history of the future will only remember you as an example, with the referendums, bank closures, capital controls, the attempt to manipulate the media, the licenses and the following fiasco and the country's slander in the European Union and internationally. So today we are dealing with the issue of delaying the first compulsory investments in the port, provided for in the 2016 concession agreement. If the parties appealed for arbitration, the Greek State would be in danger of suffering adverse economic consequences after a multi-year struggle. The projects would be further delayed, while the overall implementation of the master plan would be called into question. Just to avoid the risk of the investment project being compromised, we proceeded to intensive negotiations and reached solutions that best ensure the interests of the Greek public. Solutions are fully in line with national and European legislation. Solutions which ensure that there are no further delays and uncertainty. You are complaining about the transfer of 16% of the PPA's share capital. But this has been agreed by you since 2016, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And if it is before compulsory investment is completed, this is to avoid unnecessary recourse to arbitration. But what do we gain from this? We win a lot of things, and this is important: EUR 87 million are transferred to the TDI, we ensure that the projects are accelerated and completed by 'COSCO', and if the projects are not completed within five years, the shares are returned to the Greek State. They are returning automatically, because we have ensured that by then they will be escrowded so that the TIAD does not have to go into the process to claim them. But we don't just live in them. The contract provides that even with such a development, 'COSCO' retains the obligation to complete projects that have not yet been carried out. In addition, ‘COSCO’ is subject to an additional guarantee letter of EUR 29 million. Finally, we are strengthening the influence of HICP on the board of directors with the right to veto in the decision-making process. It is therefore clear, even for the most illusory, that we are ensuring the implementation of the investment project by protecting the interests of the public and of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are voting on today demonstrates the Government's commitment to promoting investment. It demonstrates its ability to solve problems which are expected to arise in the implementation of such a large investment project. The completion of the projects will not only upgrade the port of Piraeus, but overall Piraeus and the quality of life of the Piraeus themselves. The economic development of Piraeus, its evolution in an international shipping mall will play a key role in the overall development of the country's national economy. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start by commenting on the most politically innovative - to use an expression not so much charged - an argument which has been heard by some Members of the New Democracy that today, because of this bill, two worlds conflict: the world of the New Democracy Government and the world of SYRIZA. Your story's good, but there's no dragon. This logic of the two worlds that collide, New Democracy and SYRIZA serves SYRIZA and you know it very well. Pour "water on the mill" of SYRIZA, support SYRIZA by giving him features that he does not have and never had. Why are you doing this? Why would you want to support SYRIZA with "nails and teeth"? To strengthen the other pole of the system, so that the bipolar system can be formed and the popular discontent between "Skyla and Harybdis" is entangled. But it is a fairy tale that has been played so many times more than it does not find a response to the world, because it knows exactly what it is, not only the words, but the works of today's government and the previous government of SYRIZA. Really, are there two worlds, Mr. Ministers, or are you in agreement with the strategic choices and the New Democracy and SYRIZA, but also the KINAL? More specifically, in relation to the ports, do you agree with all these parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL, with the European Union's policy, with the single European port policy? Of course you agree. There is no objection from either of you. No asterisk, no footnote. In addition, with regard to SYRIZA, his coalition in 2008 had voted for the single port policy in the European Union. What does this single European ports policy put in place? The liberalisation of port operations. In other words, the State monopolies - the ports were public monopolies - and private companies could enter ports so that new areas of profitability can be created for monopolies. Why is he doing this? To facilitate who? The creation of the European transport network, so that there is a unified Euro-Union market to be transported much easier, without obstacles, without delay, without excessive costing the goods of the multinationals of the European Union abroad, but also to import raw materials from abroad. So this single port policy with the liberalisation of port operations served and shielded the competitiveness of business groups and their profitability and had nothing to do with the upgrading of ports and the fulfilment of popular needs, because that was the strategic option, the strategic importance of the ports for the creation of the trans-European networks. Second. Do you agree or not with all three parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, that Greece must become a transit hub in the wider region? And so the infrastructures, the existing and the future that will be created, must faithfully serve this objective. So, what target? On the one hand, the trans-European networks and, on the other, the question of the geostrategic upgrading of the ruling class in our country in the wider region. And that's what you agree with. So you do not have different strategic choices or how these will be implemented. Where does the geostrategic upgrading case lead to the wider area, with the respective infrastructures in ports, airports and railways? It leads, of course, to the deeper involvement of our country in geopolitical competitions, but also to the bazaars that are taking place between the major imperialist centres. On the one hand, the United States and China and, on the other hand, the United States and Russia have very strong competitions that are taking place in the region. The United States with China on the issue of international trade and the control of China's policy on the new "Mexico Road" and, at the same time, Russia on Russia's surrounding, the deterrence of Russia's energy relationship with the European Union and the military degradation and restriction of Russia. In this context, Greece participates actively. The new agreement, which was signed with France, on which you celebrate, the new strategic partnership between Greece and France and the market of the three frigates and potential corvena, serves precisely the implementation of the designs of the Euro-Atlantic Axis and its imperialist designs. After all, the agreement is not a coincidence that it speaks clearly about strengthening the single European defence policy, as well as NATO in the wider region. So it photographs the new aggressive plans, the new imperialist interventions in the Eastern Mediterranean, North Africa, the Middle East. From this point of view, the super-weapon armaments programmes which the government has undertaken with the support of other parties have nothing to do with the defence needs of our country, but which openly serve these imperialist designs. That is why it is no coincidence that it is an agreement that the United States of America has come to welcome, while stressing that the partnership between Greece and the United States is further promoted with the vague existence of the US bases in Greece. So our country is turned into a premier of imperialist interventions in the region, but also to a magnet of attracting retaliation. These choices are not related to the immunisation of our country's sovereign rights, they do not serve the people's needs, but on the contrary they increase much more the risks to the people in the region. This strong competition between large imperialist centres is reflected in the case of port control, as strategic infrastructure. Is it accidental that since the 'COSCO', the Chinese company, put foot in the port of Piraeus, taking the majority package of shares in the PPA, American pressures are most severe in order to limit the development of 'COSCO' in Piraeus, so as not to take the Thriass that the 'COSCO' claimed as a freight centre, to ban access to the shipyards in the region, why did the American companies want to take the 6th Fleet? Is it accidental for the ELTH, who has spent time in an operation of interests Savvidis, to remain and maintain as a port of service for the military infrastructure of the United States and the transport of troops from the port of Thessaloniki to the United States? Is it accidental that the US hawk in our region, namely Ambassador Piat, considers the port of Alexandroupolis as the territory of the United States and frequently visits it, not only for strategic reasons, but also for energy reasons and that it also wants Kavala? We are not talking about Souda, which is an American port on substance, or about the interest of companies from both the United States and Israel entering the port of Volos. If all of this is true - and it is true - because no one disputes them - then we understand very well how much these competitions have to do with them, these very strong contradictions which are unfolding to control the ports, with the need to satisfy the transport needs of our people or even the productive needs of our country. They are as close as "the spectacular to the retsinola". Because, as our people say, "when the buffalo falls, the frogs run away." Of course, we have very many examples of what it means to privatise both in the energy and telecommunications sector and in a number of other sectors, as in the ports. Who is privatising the ports? It's at the expense of the workers. Work relationships are overthrown, no hours, no contract workers, reductions in wages, their trade union rights, and the persecution of pioneer trade unionists. Privatisation is at the expense of professionals active in work and sectors serving port needs. The economic activity is concentrated within the port, within the company that controls the port, as took place in Piraeus, so it leads to a concentration of economic activity. And of course, any privatisation is for the benefit of business groups. What public interest are you talking about? You do not know that the urban state sells very cheaply to business groups and buys expensively from business groups. These are the time-consuming scandal and the source of corruption, because this is how the urban state plays its role as guardian of the interests of monopolies and not, of course, of the people's needs. So, as you defended the public interest with the Greek, so the Government of New Democracy defends the public interest with the Port Authority of Piraeus. You have given it all to the current government and the previous governments and SYRIZA together in meeting the needs of business groups. You are giving it all over today's contract, which you are bringing here. You are not standing there and you are not even concerned about matters relating to the protection of public health, nor about matters relating to the protection of our archaeological heritage. All of you, even public health and archaeological heritage, submit them to the name of the profitability of their business groups and investment projects. So, from this whole process, it is clear that privatisation is at the expense of satisfying the people's needs and effectively downgrading the quality of life of the people's strata. From another parameter, the liberation of privatisation, Mr President, it is confirmed that growth in capitalism was, is, is and will be bloody for the workers and the people, regardless of who is a driver every time in the government. Because capitalist growth on the altar of capitalist profit and the strengthening of capitalist profit sacrifices the satisfaction of popular needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of denunciation. All of these in New Democracy who referred to the two poles at the same time envied the market anti-communism of Mr Velopoulos, which we heard from this Step today, that it was the party's fault for the incidents in schools and the action of the parties and that it was not the existence of Golden Dawn in schools. It acquiescites the Golden Dawn and its action, while at the same time targeting the activities of the neo-liberal organizations and parties. Not all of them in general. Of course he knows very well. It is once again in the arguments with the Golden Dawn. The permanent motto of the Golden Dawn was "away the parties from the schools". Mr. Velopoulos has the same slogan. Is it random, anyway? No, because they have allergies. What's allergy to? They have an allergy to the need for students to be informed by the parties and the youth organizations. You give them the right to vote, but do you forbid them from being informed of the high school students? That's very nice. And it's not just an information issue. Above all, what scares them and causes them allergy is the pioneering activity of the communists within pupils to develop the apprenticeship movement, to defend public health within schools, to upgrade public education. That terrifies them. And it is no coincidence that exactly this pioneering action was targeted by the Members of the New Democracy for the Perama zone. Who's to blame for the downgrading of the Perama zone? The communists, the trade unions that kick out of business. Isn't that what Golden Dawn said? And not only did the Golden Dawn say about the Perama zone throw the communists out, but they also did the violent, criminal energy to the trade unions in Perama. Did you forget that? Is it really because of workers' struggles to protect their rights and dignity in the workplace, to protect, to protect, to sanitary and insurance measures, to reduce the shipbuilding area? This is a slander, because you all know very well who is to blame for the degradation of the Perama zone. It is clearly the cost of logging, because it has found exactly other areas, other places where it can, at much lower cost, serve and support profitability both in terms of repair and ship building. Do you not know that Greek shipowners are repairing their ships to ship repair areas in Turkey, despite being opponents, supposed, and well? Of course, because that is how they serve their interests. From this point of view, as a whole and in general terms, companies in our country have closed down not from the workers' struggles, but precisely because the businessmen have found them elsewhere or other fields that would make them even greater profits. And from this point of view, Mr President, I should like to end by saying that this dispute, which we are seeing today, is an illusory dispute, because it is foreign to the people. So we say clearly that today what must be expressed by the workers at the port of Piraeus, by the professionals of Piraeus, from the popular layers inside Piraeus, is the opposition to the privatisation itself, but also to the violent anti-grass and anti-grassroots effects it has on it. And on this basis, we are also giving the port the battle to protect workers' rights, to upgrade the worker's position, to health and safety measures, to protect workers' trade union rights within the port, to ensure the working hours, against the intensification of work. On this basis, as a JRC, we have also tabled a specific amendment, which shows the true enemy, that, in the truth and deterioration of the standard of living of the people's strata, it is not generally and indefinitely a government option, but the overall attack which is unfolding. And from this point of view, we do not ask for temporary measures to limit the phenomenon of accuracy, but for measures to relieve people's incomes through the abolition of indirect taxes, VAT on fuel, energy, telecommunications, water...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u194	In Evia...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u195	And HIS FAMILY in the houses. From this point of view, we are clearly saying, Mr Minister - we are making a proposal to you - that: do you want to compensate for the loss of revenue that you have? Sure. Tax the business groups, tax the big real estate, get the big wealth. Remove NATO expenditure and NATO equipment. Immediately - you will save 5 billion of this abolition. This is Rhodes, behold, and fuck it as a challenge. They are therefore, Minister, the two conflicting worlds: the world between the one who serves the interests of the working class, that is, the world of workers, the world of the ruling class and capital. That is, fundamentally, the rotting capitalism of capitalism conflicts with the socialism that is the bright future, but also the hope of humanity. And on this road we call on the people to go through the counterattack, setting the one who is truly responsible, that is, the system which you defend with nails and teeth, the needs of capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u196	We shall now give the floor to Mr Stavoura, the Minister of Finance and the Members will follow. Konsolas, Spankis, Dritsa and Ammanatidis. This is the fourth after the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, today there are two worlds and two political concepts. A political concept is expressed by the Government of New Democracy. It is the perception of consistency and responsibility, as reflected by time support for a major investment in the port of Piraeus, both as government and opposition in 2008, 2014, 2016, 2021. The other perception is expressed by the Visual Opposition, SYRIZA, the perception of inconsistencies and irresponsibility, as reflected by its obedient transformations in the course of time. Others support as a Civic Opposition in 2014 and 2021 and others signed as government in 2016, of course with soul pain! And with courage today I saw - I did not have the chance to be here - SYRIZA's rapporteur, 15 minutes after a huge cubism he did again, to move the finger to the government majority without a hint. How much more hypocrisy? Finally, the SYRIZA clock indicators are back today in 2014. Inclined in the past they are politically expressing regression and horror. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2016, when the Piraeus Port Convention was ratified, there have been significant delays in the implementation of the first compulsory investments. I'll repeat it. The Minister said so too. By June 2019, within a period of three years - and it is not, Mr Colleague, the PSE, that is what your government has done to avoid the investment, there are several members of your government here today, who did not want the investment - had invested 51 000 euros. On the contrary, in the summer of 2019-2021, investments amounting to EUR 48,000 have been carried out, and so we total EUR 99,000,000 said by the Minister. The most important thing, however, is what happened in the period 2019-2021 that had not been done in the past. As I said yesterday, the Port Development Plan, the master plan, was approved by the Committee on the Planning and Development. It was formulated by the Opposition - mainly by the Qualified Opposition - that the approval of the master plan - which was, of course, delayed by the SYRIZA for two years - was not necessary and therefore the delay is not significant. But you should have known if you were in favour of investment - but only investments you did not want and you do not want, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population - that submitting a master plan and approving it is an international practice dictated by Union law too. The environmental impact study has also been adopted for the last two years, which is an essential prerequisite for the authorisation of projects and then for their implementation. It is noted that this study was approved thirty-nine months after its submission in 2017 and this completion is credited to the ongoing efforts made by the present Government, otherwise it is very likely still pending. We should also not forget the recurring events of the SYRIZA government, which originally called for separate environmental impact studies for certain compulsory investments and when they were submitted they turned a hundred and eighty degrees, cubism, and now they demanded a single study, causing confusion and inconsistencies in the entire realisation of investments. Finally, under Law 4635/2019 the ICT was defined as a starting point for planning the strategic environmental impact assessment of the TBR, which was submitted to the competent authorities for approval. Of course, the coordinated actions of the present government are not just exhausted in these matters. However, I prefer - and I said yesterday - that we focus on this from now on and not in the past. Besides, I'm placed for it. The Parties have therefore considered that a friendly settlement of the matter is appropriate in order to avoid timely involvement in arbitration. The result of the negotiations is this Agreement, as well as the amendment of the contracts between SWR and COSCO, in particular the SWR and the shareholders agreement, approved by the Court of Auditors. On the grounds that led to the amendment by the Court of Auditors, as the Opposition claims, there was allegedly a fault of the Greek public. Such a matter has never been or could not be a matter for the Court of Auditors. Let us add that neither indirectly can the Greek State be held responsible for this because of the reference to the Court of Auditors' decision of the lack of fault on the other side. The fact that there is no dueness of the PPA does not mean that there is a fault of the Greek State, as some have wrongly claimed. This is a step, which has a sound legal basis and is clearly disorientative. Due to this uncertainty the parties would undoubtedly lead to arbitration with doubtful outcome, unwanted additional delays, unavoidable disruption of contractual relations and unambiguous economic consequences. One more thing. The amendments we bring to the House are the absolutely essential and are on the tracks of the conventional text that was passed in 2016. This confirms that the Court of Auditors has exclusive competence in the context of pre-contractual audits. The Court of Auditors therefore argues that the amendments are not material, that the extension of the time-limit of the investment period does not substantially alter the main subject-matter of the agreement, that there is no change in the economic scope of the existing contracts, that the physical object of the initial contracts is not extended, since the conditions that were amended in the original contracts, and that there is no desire of the parties to renegotiate substantial terms of the amended contracts with a view to distorting competition, but that amendments relating to the implementation of the existing contracts, and that the acquirer of the shares does not gain any advantage that would significantly alter the economic balance of the contract, since the granting to him of the remaining 16% of the shares, on the one hand, was for the time to take place, on the other hand, and that the lifting of the deferral suspensions is compensated by the introduction of a dissolution of the agreed, reversed sale and transfer of the express share-s of two additional guarantees. That's what he says, to clarify the truth. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to ensure its smooth implementation, in particular the full implementation of the projects of compulsory investments with a fundamental objective of sustainable development of the Piraeus port. Note that the amendments have arisen by exploiting the experience of the development of the contractual position and relationship signed, otherwise with ‘soul pain’, by the then SYRIZA Government over the last five years and started by correcting or supplementing the procedures, with the aim of having a clear, objective and ex ante framework for implementing the contractual obligations. What are the main parts of the agreement? Firstly, a five-year extension is granted for the execution of compulsory investments. In this context, the projections of the contract relating to minimum levels of services are reshaped, as these levels are in line with the progress of compulsory investments. Secondly, at the same time, specific events are identified that inhibit the implementation of compulsory investments. This is an analytical, exhaustive list of events outside the control sphere of the PPA, which relate to already licensed projects of compulsory investments which may result in partial or total suspension in the course of their implementation. These events had a starting point on issues that were actually raised, but were not limited to addressing them. On the contrary, they aim to resolve any relevant ratios outside the control sphere of the PPA, which could impede the progress of projects at the expense of investment and public interest in the medium to long term. In order to monitor easily the assistance and influence of a suspension event in the implementation of compulsory investments, a quarterly reference is to be made by an independent engineer. It should be noted at this point that the independent engineer, unfoundedly supported by the Opposition, fulfils all the guarantees of objectivity and impartiality. In particular, the contract that has not been amended in this respect is as signed with ‘soul pain’ by SYRIZA in 2016, implements international practice and provides for an imprecise mechanism for the selection, performance and payment of the remuneration of the independent engineer. I refer to Article 27 of the Convention which is maintained unchanged and continues after the amendment to set a high level of provision of services by that person. At the same time, to resolve any disagreements in the implementation of compulsory investments due to the suspension event, a phased consultation, friendly settlement and arbitration between the Greek State and the PPA are provided for. In this way, the gap that existed in the previous contract that was passed with "soul pain" in 2016 and emerged from its execution, while the underlying contractual relations are exempted from subjective interpretations and crises and are safely and objectively equipped. The possibility of suspension is also limited in time, with a maximum time limit of five years. In addition, it should be noted that in order to replace a project, in the event of an established implementation weakness, the PPA will not act unilaterally, but rather it should consult the Greek State in order to find the best solution. The implementation of the projects will therefore always be under the control and close supervision of the Greek State. In the end, even the replacement of a project will be done to ensure the public interest, which is of general interest to the investment. Thirdly, the transfer of the shares, i.e. 16%, from the HICP to 'COSCO' takes place under the dissolution of the non-implementation of compulsory investments. The public either collects the price of shares of EUR 87 million, while the obligation of the PPA to complete compulsory investments remains strong and even clearer and clearer. Fourthly, ‘COSCO’ pays an additional guarantee letter to the GOI, in addition to the initial letter, already issued by the PPA for the amount of EUR 15 million, corresponding to one third of the value of the irrevocable compulsory investments, at the rate of PPA participation in the financing of them, minus public co-financing. The value of the irrecoverable compulsory investment, as indicated above, is estimated at EUR 87 million. One third of this amount is therefore estimated at EUR 29 million. The additional guarantee letter falls to the detriment of COSCO in the case of assistance, whether exclusively or more than 90%, because of ‘COSCO’ or the PPA as regards non-completion of the compulsory investment. These provisions provide for a strong safeguard mechanism in relation to the development of the contractual relationship and avoid any disturbance in relations between the parties in the event of the initiation of arbitration proceedings. After all, let us not forget from the point of view of Officer Opposition, which so superficially and opportunely approaches the issue, that such a disruption would also negatively affect the relations of the parties. Otherwise it will be the practice of Greek public counterparties to refrain from fulfilling their contractual obligations during an ongoing procedure or arbitration procedure, except as the Minister said, if that is what you want in the end. Fifth, in the period pending the completion of the dissolved sect, the rights of veto of the GOI are extended. The SGEI is granted a veto right by one member of the board representing the SGEI to the PPA administration - this has not changed since the 2016 Convention and the Parties Agreement - regarding the decision-making that results in the dilution of the participation of the SGEI or related to the faithful respect by the PPA of its obligations to fulfil compulsory investments under the concession agreement. Sixth, in the event that the compulsory investments are not implemented within the deadline set by the modification due to the ‘COSCO’ or the PPA, the ownership of the shares, i.e. 16%, returns to the HICP and the HICP returns the price to the ‘COSCO’. However, the obligation of the PPA to complete the compulsory investments without a time limit is maintained. At the same time, the ‘COSCO’ issues a new guarantee letter in favour of the HSED, but may be transferred to the Greek State for an amount corresponding to the total value of the unsecured compulsory investments at the time the diluent is filled. If the compulsory investment without liability of ‘COSCO’ or the PPA is not implemented, the obligation of the PPA to complete them shall be maintained and the ‘COSCO’ shall issue a new guarantee letter in favour of the HSE, but may be transferred to the Greek State for an amount corresponding to the total value of the unregulated compulsory investment, at the time of the expiry of the five-year period not completed, or - only in this case - over the period of not more than 10 years, including suspension events. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, taking advantage, as I said earlier, of the knowledge and experience gained in practice from the performance of the contract, identifying the gaps and unresolved points of the existing contract, which make it difficult and affect its smooth implementation, seeking to capture an objective and ex antely defined framework, without any interpretative gaps, with no questionable points, with the aim of fully fulfilling the contractual obligations and upgrading the port and respecting the contractual balance and the legal basis of the existing contract, 2016, they made concerted and limited amendments, which make this Convention operational. This restores the risk of long-term arbitration disputes of uncertain outcome, of the port's position in a peculiar situation of hostage and disruption of contractual relations and of a clear roadmap for the implementation and completion of contractual obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u198	All right, thanks to the Minister. Mr. Ragossi, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u199	Yes, Mr President, just a moment, please. Mr Stavoura, please listen to two points. The first is because the shelve with which you were placed and ironed too many times, about the "soul pain" etc., I do not know with how much soul pain which government was forced to take what decisions during the memoranda. But I know, Mr Stavoura, and all the Greek people know that all the so-called governments of the Memorandum were indeed forced to do things beyond their will, which were imposed by the troika because, Mr Staikora, the bankruptcy you and your resignation caused this country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So he wants a great deal of courage, Mr Stavoura, to come here with this tomb and iron, because you are the perpetrators of the country's bankruptcy, you are the responsible ones who forced a lot of governments and, of course, the Greek people to suffer the suffering of the memorials. The second point, Mr Staikora, is that you are worse than Mr Plakkatakis. You came here to mention the public's responsibilities for the failure to carry out the investments of 'COSCO' and you did not have the courage, courage and openness to mention a responsibility for 'COSCO'. So Mr Stavoura, you too are worthy, but this time not the legal representative, but the economic representative of 'COSCO'. Otherwise this position is not explained here by a Greek Finance Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u200	Good, Mr. Ragosi. Mr Minister, you have the floor for a brief answer in a minute, but do not take it now, so that we can continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u201	Twenty minutes he has spoken, Mr President, not to abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u202	Let the Minister answer. Please, come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Ragossi, I assume you've forgotten you're from a transfer from somewhere else. I suppose you have forgotten that you have served governments that have put the country in the memorandum and I suppose you have forgotten what the roots of the problem are, which are coming many decades ago. But let's put this aside. It doesn't interest you, especially when you're translating. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Second of all, I didn't have a shoulder. I was clearly placed and said that there are two worlds, the world expressed by the New Democracy and the most consistent world in 2008, in 2014, as Opposition and in 2021 supported this investment. You in 2014 as SYRIZA said "no", in 2016 with soul pain you voted again in 2021 as Opposition you say "no" and move the finger. After such cubism, move the finger. And one last thing. You said that I and Mr Plakatakis represented the interests of 'COSCO'. Maybe you didn't listen well to the agencies yesterday. You know what two of them said? That in 2016 from committee to plenary all legislative improvements made the contract better for 'COSCO'! And you're talking about us? You served the interests of 'COSCO' in 2016 proven not by us, but by the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u204	Good. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy today that this debate is taking place. The truth is, it makes me personally uneasy to listen to 'you and me'. We're all together at this juncture. At this juncture, the country is extremely excited and, above all, its citizens following this Prime Minister's agreement with the French ally. Today's meeting of the National Representation coincides with and is held on the eve of this leading diplomatic and defence agreement for our country, perhaps of the biggest strategic agreement on geopolitical footprint that has been achieved on very important terms. An important agreement that has been distinguished in recent years. It illustrates the future of the country with regard to geostrategics and issues relating to national security. It is important that the text of this strategic agreement between Greek and French democracy was made public and everyone has access to it - I stress - the citizens. The voices heard by the Qualified Opposition that aspects of the agreement have not been made known and celebrated by the Prime Minister and the Government are not correct. It is therefore well known that these parameters that have been discussed and made public and that no one can nullify and question this clear wording of Article 2 on mutual defence. That is what we have to stand on today, because this point unites us, I imagine, and nobody disagrees, ladies and gentlemen. This agreement was signed by the Prime Minister and the Government of New Democracy. And those who do not like to refer to this, it is undeniable that it has potential but also dynamic elements and the signature of the eleven million citizens of this country who are perceived in terms of national unity, national interest, this important agreement that - as I said - is a powerful geopolitical footprint. It aims at peace, stability, the sovereignty of the rules of international law in the wider Mediterranean region, not only but also a new architecture of the potential security system within which our country operates. The awkward reaction of the Officerial Response is not enough to employ the citizens of the country. After all, it has had and has had a weakness in understanding the geopolitical field and the truth is, to come back to the bill, that we need to find points of unity. The Minister of Finance made a clear clarification of the terms of the Greek State, Piraeus Port Authority, with 'COSCO'. I would like to focus on Mr Yoyakas' suggestion that very clearly highlights the principles of this agreement, the additional concession agreement for the use of Piraeus Port Authority sites by the investor. On this occasion I would like to congratulate the Minister, Giannis Pakisotakis, and his colleagues because they really worked very systematically. Because we're not talking about another port. Citizens in the country focus on the port of Piraeus that they themselves have exploited. And over the last few years, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy have agreed that we shall proceed to the strategic agreement with 'COSCO'. No one disputes that. However, I listened carefully to the objections raised about the bill and the new convention for the Piraeus Port Authority. In order to formulate a political and political position, it must be credible and I imagine that Uncle Dritsa and Mr Santorinios had already made a point of recognizing, Minister, in your efforts to get the debate here today. Unless you disagree, Minister, about something different, say it here. Let me withdraw from our collective memory and remind you that SYRIZA as a opposition had described as a sale the Piraeus Port Authority’s share-sharing contract as 'COSCO'. In January 2015 he even announced the cancellation of the contract by his oral ministers. Who doesn't remember that? In the government's programming statements, Mr Dritsas as Minister - you know my appreciation, Minister - he said that we ourselves announced our commitment to stop privatising the PPA and guaranteeing the public character of the ports of the country. I don't want to testify in the Minutes. This is what all Greek citizens know. What has changed since, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, what is different today? What has finally happened does not have to repeat it. The 51% concession contract to 'COSCO' was signed with the participation of Mr Pitsirla himself, who was then president of the HIADE, if you remember well. In its contract, the ‘COSCO’ paid EUR 280,5 million, while the concession contract provided for an additional price of EUR 88 million for the acquisition of an additional 16% share capital, provided that the terms of the agreement relating to the completion of the first-year programme have been met. Mr Stavros said so very clearly. I would like to add that the entry of 'COSCO' as an investor in the port of Piraeus was a strategic choice of the government of the then Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis in 2008. You heard Mr. Andrianos earlier who mentioned what was happening at the time in Greek society and what contractions we had from the parties of the Officerial Response then. I don't have to repeat them. A strategic choice at the time when she was also fought by those who later put one signature behind the other in these conventions. That is why Mr Stavros referred to Mr Ragosi, so that we do not forget. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is whether this strategic option has been improved in public interest. In 2008, the port of Piraeus was in the thirty-seventh place of ranking as regards the handling of containers. And - listen - in 2020 the port of Piraeus is in the fourth place of the ranking after five million four hundred thirty-seven containers were moved and at the same time increased the revenues of the PPA. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that it is positive and only those who have ideas do not recognise it. The new agreement to be voted on today in Parliament addresses the question of intrinsic difficulties in implementing the investments that should have been made. And those who have served in government positions know what red tape means and those who are MPs know from the citizens what it is that red tape. And that is why it is extended by five years after the transfer of 16% of the share capital, a period necessary to complete the investments provided for in the original agreement. At the same time, the interests of the Greek State are fully safeguarded, since if the planned investments do not take place within the five-year period under the responsibility of COSCO or PPA, then the shares transferred to CoSCO will return to the HSE. In fact, the transfer of shares corresponding to 16% beyond the price of 88 million euros is accompanied by an additional guarantee letter of EUR 29 million, which corresponds to one third of the amount of investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the document on the bill we are debating today came from the government, from both Ministers, from the rapporteur and from the majority of the Members present today. It's a chance to move forward. And as I said in my introduction, we can all do it together. I urge you to vote in favour of the bill so that you do not find yourself in a difficult position with your history, where the mismatch of words and works has emerged today in the House as well. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u206	Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is becoming a strong country. And after signing the agreement between Greece and France on strategic partnership in defence and security, it becomes a force not only for the Mediterranean, but a force of stability in the wider region and, of course, a country that is in the climate of confidence in order for investors to come to invest and our economy to enter a development orbit. Therefore, for the goal of developing 5.9%, estimates show that it will be much larger, showing that there will be better days, really better days, not theoretically, not in slogans, for the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament today ratifys by this bill the amendment of the concession contract between TIPID and PPA, signed in June 2016 and ratified by Law 4401/2016. This contract was transferred 51% of the shares in PPA SA to 'COSCO' at the price of EUR 280.5 million. The same concession contract provides for the transfer of an additional 16% of the shares at an additional price of EUR 88 million, provided that the conditions for the first investment period programme have been met. The transfer of an additional 16% is also under way. In fact - and to keep it this important detail - the transfer of 16% means the obligation to deposit a 'COSCO' additional guarantee letter in favour of the HSED, the amount of which is EUR 29 million. The amendment agreement was signed a few days ago, namely on 22 September. What does this amendment mean, however, and why is it so important? As stated in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, no expenditure is caused against the State budget. We understand, therefore, that only advantages can exist from this amendment. Secondly, without the signing of this amendment agreement, if we had taken a different path, we would have entered many adventures and probably at a high price. In order to reach the Greek State with PPA S.A. in this agreement, there were intensive negotiations happily with a happy outcome. The recourse to arbitral dispute resolution would have very adverse consequences for the Greek State - we all understand that - and also economic, but also additional delays in the implementation of the projects. All this is avoided, with the proposed amendment of the concession agreement, which ensures the execution and completion of the projects of compulsory investment, as well as the upgrading of our largest port and its contribution to the development of the national and local economy. Of course, the most flagrant task of the investment is the cruise pier, the southern expansion of the passenger port. This project is part of the first compulsory investment with a timetable for completion in the first five years. Our country has a lot to gain from the cruise. To note even that it is one of the branches that has been affected as much as anyone else in the pandemic. For example, in 2020 we had two hundred four cruise arrivals in our country, while in 2019 we had three thousand eight hundred ninety-nine. We're talking about a 95% reduction. In particular, in the port of Piraeus, we had seventy-seven arrivals in 2020 and sixty-sixteen thousand passengers respectively, while in 2019 cruise passengers arrived at one million ninety-eight thousand, while cruise ships in six hundred and twenty-two. Because of the pandemic alone we had 98% reduction in passengers and 88% reduction in ships. So, very easily we can all understand and agree on the growth margins in our country and the cruise industry. The first figures for the industry are already very hopeful. Our country was one of the first to relaunch the industry. It is also many important projects outside the investment of the PPA that change and upgrade Piraeus, such as the metro. Already the first three stations to Nice are in operation and everything shows that the next summer the metro will reach the big port, connecting it directly to Attica airport, while the tram is expected to operate within the next period of time. On the individual amendments to the concession agreement ratified by the current draft law, the main amendments are as follows: First, an extension of the duration of the first investment period. It is another five years after the transfer of 16% of shares with an option to extend for five more, for specific reasons related to so-called suspension events. And that is the second main point of the agreement: the suspension events. The suspension of the period of implementation of the first compulsory investments for reasons other than the sphere of influence of the PPA and the 'COSCO' and for a period not exceeding five years. In order to improve the monitoring of such an event and the impact it may have on the entire investment, a quarterly reference is to be made by an independent engineer. It should also be noted that five years for the first investment period projects expired in August 2021. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. Thirdly, the transfer of 16% of the shares takes place under a dissolution of the non-implementation of the first compulsory investments, due to the PPA or 'COSCO'. This means, in practical terms, that if within the period of five or ten years the maximum investment is not carried out, the shares are automatically returned to the GOI, while the obligation to complete these investments remains. Fourthly, the additional EUR 29 million guarantee letter added to the EUR 15 million already granted as a guarantee to the Greek State has already been mentioned. The fifth change refers to the start time of the second investment period which may be earlier than the decade. The sixth is also changing the conditions for the implementation of non-compulsory investments which can be carried out by means of fast-track procedures. Finally, although the HICP will be represented on the PPA board by a member, instead of three, currently in force, its role is upgraded, especially in terms of rights and veto on key decisions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that the agreement with COSCO has brought PPA a leading role in the Mediterranean, in Europe - and why not? - on a global level. The amendment of the agreement promotes the great investment which, after great delays, will go ahead and transform not only the port but the entire region, along with the refreshment projects that are carried out throughout the city of Piraeus, but also the great refreshment of the phaliar front and the southern suburbs. And I can only ask the SYRIZA colleagues who said they would vote against: do you want, ladies and gentlemen, to stop the investment? Do you want the investment to be stopped under the agreement that you signed in 2016 and which you have been blocking since? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that all the wings of Parliament must vote in favour of this draft law that speaks in terms of the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u208	Mr Alexis Haritsis is called at Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to start with two issues off the agenda. First of all, I would like to make a comment on the latest extremely worrying and extremely outrageous, I would say, developments in Stavroup of Thessaloniki. What has happened over the last few days is, unfortunately, to see, before our eyes, the snake's egg incubating once again in our country. Here, too, the responsibility of all of us is too great. We cannot, as a democratic orderly society, but also as a state, blind the Greek state in front of these phenomena, which are also taking place in school spaces. Of course, they cannot be government ministers to deal with what is happening, simply by speaking of minorities and refusing to name it as what is really... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...i.e. neonazi, using as a predator school spaces, to attack civilians. We must all, of course, but above all the government, take a firm stand on this issue. The second issue off the agenda. Minister, since you are here, I would like to have a briefing from you on an incident that took place in my area a week ago and I really ask you well. I do not know if you have been informed, but there have been twenty-five refugees who have arrived in Vassilis Koroni. I would aside the fact that the local head of the port, as I have tried to contact him since the first moment, has denied this communication. I find it unacceptable, but I put it aside, and I stick to the substance of the case. What about these people? There are local residents' testimony, there are photos. These people have disappeared. I think you ought to have given the Ministry a clear answer, a formal briefing on what has happened to the fate of these twenty-five people who arrived at the Vasilis of Koroni last night. I now come to the issue we are discussing. We have been discussing an issue that has been very much concerned with public opinion, production agencies and, of course, the local community of Piraeus for 15 years. It is about the concession of the largest port in the country. This is an agreement, which is already starting in 2006 with strategic cooperation between Greece and China. In 2015, just ten days before the election call, the Greek Parliament voted to ratify the sale agreement, transferring the majority package of the PPA to 'COSCO'. This was, at the time, a commitment by the government to the institutions. I am making this very small historical, if you want, a retrograde, to describe the environment in which SYRIZA was subsequently called, after 2015, to manage this case and proceed with the concession. A contract, which was actually signed in 2016 with L.4404/2016. In this suffocating context, therefore, under very difficult budgetary conditions, the SYRIZA government then managed through substantial negotiation to win some very important things. Let me say, by speeding up some of these: to ensure that additional investments of EUR 300 million are carried out by the PPA. Enhance the public benefit from the movement of goods by increasing the minimum capacity in consignments required by the investor from the operation of the port. Support small and medium-sized enterprises in the region by prohibiting the PPA from providing services for specific activities, such as maritime repairs and the equal access of small and medium-sized enterprises to port infrastructure. To protect workers by making an express commitment to the law to the company's maintenance of collective agreements. To promote the granting of important spaces to local society. A characteristic case is the coastline of fertilisers. Establish the Public Port Authority with a view to institutionally controlling the provision of port services, which was unfortunately abolished overnight by New Democracy in 2020. Upgrade the Port Regulatory Authority to an independent authority. Finally, despite the initial commitment made by the previous governments to grant 67%, to transfer 51% and sell the remaining 16% after a five-year period on the basis of specific terms and conditions. These initiatives of the then government of SYRIZA show, in my opinion, what effective political intervention means to ensure the sustainable implementation of an investment strategy that ensures the public interest and gives substantial growth prospects, which provides for upgrading and development as we want the port, but at the same time also for the protection of the rights of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. Where are we today? Five years has passed. Since 2016, we have reached 2021, the PPA has not yet completed, not even most of the planned mandatory investments amounting to EUR 295 million. We have said so, and the rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have said so. According to the information you have given, Minister, in Parliament, this figure is only 33.89% today. And how, although this is a prerequisite, do you choose to overcome this stumbling block? You accept the responsibility of the Greek State for any delays and release the PPA S.A. from any responsibility. This is how the Greek state loses the right to activate criminal clauses, but also the right not to go any further with the transfer of 16%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The main argument of the investor, with whom he made the request to the GOI, was that the delays were due to the Greek State. In detail, however, the timetables show that this is not the case in this case. The reply of the licensees concerned was immediate, contrary to the company’s reflexes that delayed characteristics in additional information requested by the services. Minister, I have listened very carefully to the stakeholders. If an issue was universal and was raised by everyone, this concerned the total absence of any consultation with the stakeholders. It is not possible to make such significant amendments without consulting the local government and the productive bodies in the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President, because I have had some issues at the very beginning that I should have raised. How does it mean to develop the port if it is not accompanied by the development of the wider area? How will local society benefit? From your moves so far, unfortunately, there is no care in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government was asked to sign an agreement within a suffocating context. Nevertheless, he managed in collaboration with the local community, with the local authorities, with the local government signing this difficult agreement, but ensuring concrete benefits for the Greek public. The Government of New Democracy is coming today and chooses to move forward, effectively trespassing the public interest with the strong absence of local societies from the debate. This, if we want to be honest, is not a pro-investment policy, gentlemen. This refers to countries and times when the wealthy sources and strategic infrastructure of a country were exploited and exploited, not investment and development. And I ask: is this how you understand the creation of an investment-friendly climate, sending out the signal that the country has a government that does not protect its economic, social, environmental interest, but is getting to the point of failing a contract, because that is how it suits the investor? We must finally - and I think this is a very serious debate we need to have - discuss what we mean in that country, how we understand the role of strategic investment. Do we want investment that respects labour and environmental legislation? Do we want investments that are compatible with domestic productive and commercial activities, that is, Greek enterprises? Do we want investments that create know-how for our country's productive system? Do we want, in short, investments that produce domestic added value, or do we want concessions or divestments of better public property that are in conflict with the economic, social, environmental interests of our Greek society and our national production base? That is, in my opinion, the dilemma. I have described you, I think, as briefly as I could, how we have managed to secure the public interest in these very difficult circumstances. Unfortunately, the current government clearly chooses another solution, the logic of divestment, and that is extremely dangerous for social cohesion and the country's development perspective. I shall close, Mr President, in thirty seconds. Just one mention is in the amendment tabled yesterday by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance. It is about the burning issue of the explosive dishwasher that concerns the entire Greek society. We have long pointed out that concrete measures are needed to create a protection net for consumers, for households and for businesses. In this amendment we call for the reduction of excise duty on energy products, in particular on the main types of large consumption, such as gas, petrol and diesel, until spring, in these difficult months of winter, that is to say. Increases in energy right now confuse the entire Greek economy. With this amendment, we ensure that the impact on Greek households and businesses is mitigated as far as possible. We call on the government finally to stop after all these months inactivating and accepting this very important amendment. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u210	You're welcome. Mr Theodoros Dritsas is called in Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. To prepare Mr. Amanatidis from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on and protest because, just a few hours ago, Mr Mitsotakis announced that there will be a five-year renewal of the defence agreement with the United States. Five-year renewal is already extreme, instead of traditional annual renewal, which enables the sovereign Greek state to renegotiate every time. That's not good enough. The State Department deplored Mr Mitsotakis, announcing an indefinite renewal of the defence agreement. We need an immediate answer, now, today. The indefinite assignment of sovereign rights to Greek territory has never accepted it by any post-government government. This shows how untrustworthy a government is if all this is confirmed. He can't be in the air. These are official communications. I'm on my way to the bill. I would call on the ministers, Mr Staikoras, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and their colleagues who may compile their speeches not to get so tired of detailed arguments that the guaranteed application of the concession agreement is supposedly guaranteed for the future and there are safeguards for what one minister and the other have described. But there's a tradition. ‘Philosophical settlement’. And the present contract, by the Minister for Maritime Affairs himself, was called. You have this delivery from the container station, the ‘COSCO’ then, since 2008. Twice a contractor has been shown to have been proved to be torn, continuously and recurringly unreliable in relation to his contractual obligations. And at the container station the then ministers and the then right-wing government of the right "hospitable settlement" made against legality, as if the obligations of the investors' contractual obligations were to laugh, although they were also voted and enforced by law in the House. Unless this relationship is one-sided, and it is not two-folder. For you, it's not. Because there is a 'friendly settlement'. Is that something that's exaggerated to me? Is that something we don't know in Piraeus and across Greece? So why would they tell us so many hours that they don't make sense? Since all these needs are still happening to activate the insurance valves, if they are in their hands, they will still be friendly. And to clarify a few things, who wants and who doesn't want investment. The first, beyond the big words, is that we in this agreement for the productive operation, exploitation and development of the port of Piraeus imposed binding investments. That's what we did. The Government of the New Democracy, the Mitsotakis and all the "friendly arrangements" of the ministers are coming up to deny them and justify why they have not been made. Do I still say any exaggerations? Am I saying something absurd? Am I saying something out of reality? That's what this is about. We have heard that there has been 'hard negotiation, very hard'. We have three months now when we read "NAYTTERIC", "KATHMERINI", "NEA", everywhere, just the arrangements that were to come and come. We've known them for so long. So 'hard negotiation'! And if the leak was not given by the government, but by 'COSCO', 'COSCO' was vindicated. The ones he wanted, he took them. So hard to negotiate the friendly settlement against legality! Let's not be fooled. One is the answer that the government and the relevant ministers have to give, how it is possible with a law to legalise an illegal and unconventional behaviour. They could not prove at any level - and they avoided it very systematically - who is responsible for the delays. Everything that has been said - I don't have the time - is in the realm of funny. We have experienced the obligation of 'COSCO' to bring in the master plan which is invoked and which is - supposedly - a strong argument. Do you know what she brought many months after her obligation? A nine-point note or seven, I don't remember well. This was the master plan, no study, no plan, no explanation, nothing. And when the Port Secretariat and the ESAL told them that it's not a master plan, they made another six months to bring it normal. They don't want to make investments because they want to make investments only those that concern their own profitability and not the investment that will bring added value for the Greek economy, for society and for all other things expected from an investment process. Special economic zone sought to do so to a certain point, then they managed it with Karamanlis and Kefalayannis and all others, but workers, without any political influence, during one night and had a union. Special economic zone they also want to do the port. The friendly New Democracy arrangement will give them this at some point, because there are many ways to do this, it does not have to be declared by law a special economic zone. That's the whole story. Instead of responding directly to the Piraeus operations, the Piraeus municipalities and mayors, the Chamber of Navy told us that the port of Piraeus has so far been not competitive with 'COSCO'. We have been told by other representatives of producer bodies and the shipbuilding zone that ships are leaving because of their 'COSCO' policy, because 'COSCO' wants its own ships. If we are now talking about the development prospects of ports, you are very deeply at night, precisely because for you investments are deal, it is a friendly arrangement. Do not comment on what expectations there may be from your party or even people for these investments. In any case, it is the logic of deal rather than investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Dritsa, I understand it's your area. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u213	Yeah, yeah. The ports of Greece and the whole world are considered to be productive and developmental in the context of combined transport, land, sea and air. In this context, each choice and each strategy shall be planned. The ‘COSCO’ project was promised to invest in ‘Thriasio’. COSCO had promised a number of other things that it would put into non-compulsory investments and other prospects. At the moment there is no added value. The profits of 'COSCO' are only for the Greek state as well. Only for her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u215	From this point of view, do not be fooled. The fight and the illegality that you are committing today, which it reveals - I do not have the time - and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, by referring to Directive 21423, says that these regulations require all the following conditions - one of the three is not our concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u217	I am done with this, Mr President. The amendment does not alter the overall nature of the concession. That's what's being played and discussed. However, ‘the need to amend it, due to circumstances which could not be foreseen by a diligent contracting authority or contracting entity’. There is nowhere such a prerequisite that the mandatory and binding directive, adopted by the Greek Parliament, imposes it. It is also noted by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. You're outlawing it. And you illegally legalize illegal and unconventional behaviour by a law. We don't want to stop the investment. The port of Piraeus must continue and could continue if the law were implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Drizza, hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u219	What would prevent Piraeus from going on with 'COSCO', if the law and contractual obligations were applied? The rest is to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much. How do you get me every time in the tenth? That's all you're doing to me. Mr George Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy. To prepare Mr. Philipos Loading, too, from the New Democracy. Look, I was sent a message that the Veterans Association is watching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u221	Dear Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to ratify its amendment from 24-6-2016 to a corresponding concession agreement, as signed on 22 September 2021 and on the substance, let me say, to adapt it to the new data. The main question, of course, is the conclusion of an up-to-date relationship between the parties, which is the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority. And why is that? Why did it involve issues and, above all, delays in the execution of the projects - what projects? - first compulsory investment, for reasons outside the limits of reasonable control of the Piraeus Port Authority. The main provisions of the original signed agreement, as it is only natural that they are not cancelled, since they were a product which was commonly accepted after a competitive procedure. For this reason, any objections which have been raised by previous speakers on the subject are unfounded. What should be addressed, and what is being attempted by this draft law, is the malfunctions of this agreement and the formation of conditions for its smooth implementation, so as to contribute to the objective of sustainable development of the port of Piraeus and also to contribute to the stimulation of the national and local economy. Any criticism, therefore, which has been heard before - when it is formulated - concerns primarily and mainly not this draft law, but the signed initial concession contract from 24-6-2016. And criticism should not be general and vague. It should be based on whether, through this amended Convention, the main objective of the agreement is better, more efficiently and safer, and hence the objective of the PPA, which is also a national priority. In this sense, and with a view to the full implementation of the contract, specific provisions are amended, with emphasis - and there has been enough talk of this - during the investment period. New definitions shall be added which contribute to better demarcation of the terms and to a clearer picture, both when drafting the amending agreement and when it is being implemented. If one reads in detail, this conclusion is unsatisfactory. Concepts such as ‘suspension event’, ‘intermediator’, ‘diplomatic committee’, ‘serious integration certificate’, ‘reference measure’, as well as an amendment of existing concepts, illustrate and clarify in a concrete and more focused manner the content of the contract and contribute to better follow-up of the course and to the necessary measures and decisions. In this case one should assess the consequences of the non-continuation of a contract, in relation to an improved contract and - let me say - an up-to-date continuation. That is exactly what this draft law does. That is why any criticism should take into account not only the legal but also the economic and time dimension. The provision, for example, of the extension for five years of the first investment period should be based on suspension events, as described and agreed, and not on unambiguously identified causes. And let us not say that the extension is proposed to cover delays over the last two years. After all, those who have listened to the Minister of Finance earlier, I think we are convinced of the very opposite. The provision of independent engineers strengthens security in decision-making. Each suspension event will be explicitly identified and described, with proposals being submitted either to replace part of the project or to find a commonly accepted solution. In any case, the Greek State reserves the right to indicate in good faith the best solution between the cases of the transfer of the natural object or its better arrangement. An important safeguard is the choice of an independent Ombudsman, of course, where the parties do not agree on their own or if the other party does not agree to the Greek State's proposal. Of course, the timing of mediation and settlement of any disagreements is considered as the time to suspend operations. In other words, the timetable for the implementation of the first or second phase projects is not calculated. The Greek State retains the possibility, the right to reject possible proposals made by the PPA, always taking the development plan of the port, which, as I understand it, was questioned earlier. In addition, something very important is anticipated. which can alone lead to accelerating implementation of the contract. The second investment period may begin before the completion of the first, in the form of operational phases, which one does not affect the smooth implementation of the other. The operational, safe and integrated implementation of the investment periods is important. How is it achieved? It shall be achieved by the planned final study plan drawn up under the responsibility of the PPA and controlled by an independent engineer. Of course, this is not a report. It will have a minimum content, which is also described. A specific procedure is also provided for the submission by the PPA and the approval by the competent governmental body of projects not covered by compulsory investments. A draft final study, assessed by the independent engineer, shall also be drawn up within three months. The amendment we are debating is also envisaged and entered into the implementation phase of the Convention, according to which the PPA tenders and assigns a special exception to existing procedures for the award and implementation of public works with a view to speeding up them. The time has also accelerated for the production of the projects by issuing, as foreseen, a temporary receipt certificate and substantial integration when the whole project is implemented more than 98% and partly more than 95%. There are also explicit clauses in the completion of compulsory investment, and yes, the first phase is allowed, i.e. in the first six years, but things are getting much more difficult when one wants to extend the work schedule over ten years. That's where the clauses I mentioned earlier are being activated. Ladies and gentlemen, it appears from the above that the amendment of the concession agreement from 24-6-2016 was necessary not only because there were delays, but because arrangements have been added that make it more operational, more controllable, with objectives, with procedures and thus more effective. The effectiveness of the arrangements will be evaluated and its contribution to the national economy and the economy of the region of interest. It does not offer grounds for questioning and will, of course, be judged, such as the original contract, until today, for its progress. With these considerations, I am voting in favour of this draft law, and since we want to have consistency with what we have said a few years ago and with what we say and do now, I call on colleagues from the other groups - and above all from SYRIZA - to vote for it, because in essence it gives a great deal of added value to what it had adopted in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Phillipos Loading from New Democracy is called in Stepma, followed by Mr. Giannoulis by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal both in committee and in plenary today. But let's start by saying a few things about the investment. The investment in the port of Piraeus is one of the most important investments in the country. It started in government Kostas Karamanlis, continued under Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, to arrive in 2016 where the then government of SYRIZA signed the concession agreement between the Greek state and the PPA, which we are today amending and bringing to ratification. As the rapporteur for the Greater Opposition said, they were forced to sign it, so obviously they do not believe in investment, but in particular in this investment. This is, therefore, an amendment to some articles in the original agreement, which comes to solve problems caused by delays in the implementation of the first compulsory investments, as originally defined. So we come with today's ratification to repair, but also to ensure the smooth development of the projects of compulsory investment, with a view, of course, to the sustainable development of the port of Piraeus and then the development of our local and national economy. Because we have heard a great deal mainly from the committee and today from the rapporteur and from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, I am surprised that you have shaken our finger. I personally, because of my capacity as a historian, would like to make a historical regression, because we have heard a lot about 2016, about what you have done. I would personally recommend to you a great deal of attention, especially when there are recorded and publicly all of what you said in 2014 and 2016, when you brought to plenary to vote on the concession agreement. I won't stand by what's happened. I will only stand up to some things that the then Minister for Maritime Affairs said in 2014 and 2016. In 2014, Mr. Dritsas obviously had another opinion on this investment. So it's pro, is it against? I personally don't understand from the position he did before. He declared publicly in 2014 from the Step that the government's choice to bring the PPA issue to a discussion - he said - is indicative of its choice to go ahead without society. The privatization of the PPA - he said - means oppression of the city, namely Piraeus. "The port belongs to the citizens, it is the property of the people." That's what he said in 2014. In 2016, as Minister of Shipping, he was obviously not disturbed to sign this agreement and to transfer 67% of the PPA to 'COSCO'. In 2016, the agreement was obviously a good one. In 2015 you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, closed the streets and allegedly extinguished the port to the Chinese, but also the PASOK before, and a few months later you had naturally bent your own internal reactions. Of course Mr Drasakis was in favour of investment as a government. I'm not just gonna stand on this. I will also stand in 2017 and that is very interesting. You then went on to privatise that you originally did not want - to remember this - and ignore the entire company's statutes in 2017, according to which it decided on any recruitments, you tried to pass - and you did so - by a parliamentary amendment - because you are being cut off for the well-documented legislation of your own. I shall table an amendment that was accepted by Mr Santorinios and by Mr Dritsa at the time - if I am not mistaken - which brings the signatures of both Mr Dritsa and Mr Armarleniou, people who have spoken today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So then, in 2017, you took care of your own customer relations, without respecting the agreed then, but also the company's statute. So now, why are you shouting and reacting for all this? Obviously to rally your own fans, but also your audience. The Greek people, however, thankfully, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget so easily. Ladies and gentlemen of the Major Opposition, you fought, but you fight for growth, everything progressive for this place. You, while at the time you had made marches of protest about the concession of the PPA, then signed the 2016 contract. Which is hypocrisy! You who, until the last minute, played with the credibility of the country, but also acted in a way of artisanalism, I would say, to the foreign investors of COSCO at the time, then brought a unilateral amendment to the content of the contract, which you had brought to the committee and then to the plenary, because you are cutting yourself off for the good legislation. You have brought legislative improvements by fundamentally changing its own content. Of course I should not dwell on the letter 'COSCO' between the committee and the plenary in 2016. Another text you had then brought to the committees for discussion. After you had brought changes on your own after also inviting the "COSCO" to this dipline, a company with which the Greek State was concurring and questioned your honesty not only as a government, but also there is continuity in the public administration and the Greek government, but also for Greece itself. At this point you have brought the country with your own choices, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and now you are also asking for the change. You know, it's a oxymoor every time it becomes a serious attempt to get the country ahead, you go out and talk about an alleged sale. You can no longer convince anyone. So with this ratification, ladies and gentlemen, do we achieve what? We are giving a five-year extension - if you like - of the completion of the compulsory investments in the concession agreement, which was ratified by Act 4404/2016, of EUR 290 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. With a view to safeguarding the interests and the Greek State, for which you are also being cut, this extension is given in respect of the provision of additional guarantees by PPA S.A. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis has always been trying, but also trying, so that our country has a development path, but also constitutes an investment pole. In order to make this clear, but also possible, legal certainty is also a prerequisite. So this confidence is gaining day after day and we will make our country a pole of investment, but we will also bring it into the first positions of the most attractive destinations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u224	You're welcome. Mr Christos Giannoulis is called at Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u225	From the "red" Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u226	From "Sepron" Thessaloniki. "Red" does not exist in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u227	Apart from "white-white", Mr President, I will add "from the red Thessaloniki", since the second large city has now been characterised as an epidemiological, as a consequence of effective measures and government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u228	That's how you put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Chartomas, I am not a historian, but honestly amazed at the fact that in diving historical aspects of modern Greek political history, where today in the government headquarters Mr.Georgiadis sits in the capacity of Minister of Development, who said publicly - and has been recorded, because you criticise what a political man has said in the past - the heaviest phrase, that "those who vote for New Democracy and PASOK vote for thieves". And you're making us valuable about what has been said in the political field? Do you use us for a client state, Mr. Lotoma, when the former Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, resigned from the Secretary-General of Public Income, why couldn't he withstand the fax and requests for appointments and transfer of taxes across Greece? And he denounced it in the House too and resigned. And you do us apologise for a client state and statements, when the current Minister for Health, Mr. Ploris, opposes vaccinations for another disease, appears to be an anti-Semitism, is Mr. Vorides also apologizing, the third Minister for Transcription - who had the courage to attack Mr. Ragosi - had asked for the political legacy of George Papadopoulos? And are you teaching us lessons? Please stop saving us. Stop saving us if there's hope to survive. And I sincerely ask you to listen, because I arrived just now from Thessaloniki. Mr. Haritsis mentioned earlier. What I have described may well be the cause of your disobedience to what is happening - not the incidents, not the events - of the attack of new-fashioned fascists, children who unfortunately salute their hand with the Nazi greeting and no one takes a stand on the Couple and the Government. Mrs. Kerame just asked for an intervention. For what? Shall we say it by his name? With the fact that teachers and students themselves denounce? A nucleus of late gold - pilgrims, who obviously receive the message of tolerance, which is also guilty of the state, attack people who are against violence. This is happening in Thessaloniki. It's not facts. It's not episodes. And the Ministry of Education is hiding. The teachers themselves denounce it, the students themselves. Stop saving us honestly. It's the appeal. We don't want you to save us. We want you to give this country the hope of stepping up and looking people in the eye, because, from what I understand, you are not trying to convince us about what this bill is. You're trying to convince yourself, your colleagues in the first and second Piraeus. They are the ones who are trying to convince that what we all understand is not the case. What do we understand? That you prefer to incriminate the Greek State, which is systematically trying to degrade in the area of health, education, income, development, to do the "COSCO". It's just talk. Is it so hard to just speak Greek? Is that so hard? You are politically improper too. Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u230	Me personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u231	Not you, Mr. Loading, the government you support. I listened patiently to Mr. Stavoura saying ironically and scornically about the pain of the soul. You really know the pain of the soul in this bill and everything that preceded it in the period 2015-2019 has the element that surpasses all these beans where you try to isolate your political past from the history of the country, it has the character of the most honorable government since Postpopulation. It's also a simple conversation. But let me tell you something. Because you are ironing the pain of a soul, the difficulty of exercising power under the abrupts of bankruptcy that you have caused, it is very different from the political anesthesia, from the political anesthesia to have plunged the country into debt, plunged the country into dead ends, and today the Mitsotakis Government's plan to be one. Do you know what it is? Go back to Antony Samara's line. All the things that have been happening in recent months are, in fact, the policy Antonis Samaras. And he tells you in your face in an interview with the "News". What is happening doesn't the former Prime Minister's political stigma have? Tell me: PPC, port, development, poverty, increases? Mr Stavros is about to present a preliminary draft budget. In Thessaloniki, which entered the "red", the temperature drops. Thessaloniki and Athens are dependent cities from natural gas. What's he gonna do? Will he think about it? When the world is cold, such as when it was not powered and a million and a half households were in'red' and created an acute economic problem in PPC, will Mr Stagioras now think about it? Is there no answer? You don't know the increases? Don't you know what's going to happen and you're going to think about it? All you've ever thought about, though, was subsidising the shamefulness and growth, not the citizens. So don't talk about rope in the hanger's house. The four and a half years of governance of SYRIZA brought the balance that you wanted with fraud to overturn on the basis of the bankruptcy and the Memorandum of the next three years. You are not entitled to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr Giannoulis, and respect for the time. It's the second time you've surprised me. I shall give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Constantine Katsafados. The parliamentary representative from Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakada, will then speak. Then we'll go back to the State Secretary, this time to the State Secretary for Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I was expecting Mr. Giannoulis to talk about his answer, but he didn't say anything about the bill, so I don't have anything to answer to him, because the debate is on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u234	For Stavroupoli, tell us about it. They're Greek too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u235	Please! I said left-hand temper. He said at the beginning of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u236	We're just having a conversation, Mr. Giannoulis, about the Treasury Ministry's bill in which you didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u237	The goldsmiths in Stavroupoli are condemned?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u238	You just said, 'cause obviously...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Giannoulis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u240	Can you hear me? Do you disapprove the golden ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u241	I hear you, I hear you. During your flight you did not follow the position of Members of the First and Second Piraeus. You've been misinformed. All Members came and spoke, except for Mr Mela who waits for the end, it's after us. So you can come in and see...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u242	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u243	Because you said we were trying to convince the MPs. To hear what MPs I and II Piraeus said, to understand whether we convinced them or convinced us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u244	Don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u245	Everything that's about the students of Stavroupoli, Mr. Giannoulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u246	Let's hear a voice!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u247	You don't have to. The New Democracy's attitude is universal. All these phenomena are condemned and we are perpendicular to all these phenomena, whether they are the ones hailing Nazis or the ones wearing hoods and flying molotovs. We condemn violence...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u248	They're fascists. Are you gonna convict them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u249	Are you fascists?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u250	Please, please, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u251	Just please keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u252	Please! It's not just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u253	The ones in jail, the golden ones are...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u254	Please, Mr. Santorinier!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u255	You forget, Mr. Santorinier, who went and put Golden Dawn in jail? Forget, Mr Santorinier, who were the ones who fought against the fascist formula of the Golden Dawn and who voted along with the Golden Dawn! That's all you forget!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u256	And we're going to the bill, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u257	So lessons in this room aren't going to be doing. We therefore condemn all forms of violence from wherever it comes. That is our democratic duty. You guys look at each other, see what violence, red or black, you'll condemn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u258	Baltacus will fight you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u259	Please, please, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Giannoulis, didn't my answer cover you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u262	You've interrupted him three times since he went up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u263	Let's go to the bill now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u264	You're judged by the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u265	Obviously, he's judging us. Let's go to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people, who are following us, must understand what we are discussing all these days in committee and today in plenary. In 2016, with soul pain, with no soul pain, with the troika over their heads, without the troika over their heads, the SYRIZA government voted to surrender the port, privatize the port and get the "COSCO". There was an international competition. And I really do wonder why I heard Mr Dritsa saying that 'COSCO' is an insolvent investor - why did you then give an insolvent investor the whole port? That's what Mr. Dritsa said a moment ago from Stepma. Anyway, there was an international competition and a company took PPA SA. I've been living in Piraeus since I was born, because another colleague came out of SYRIZA and said "I live in Piraeus" and caused us to walk together in Piraeus. Whenever he wants us to walk together. Political careers were set about and around the port of Piraeus. In 2009, when I first spoke with New Democracy, I remember the then Chief of Officerial Representation, the President of PASOK, George Papandreou coming and crying at the port of Piraeus and giving his word that the port will not be sold. Then came George Papandreou and all that happened with the port and the PASOK government. In 2012 in the settlement of Samara - Venizelos, New Democracy remained faithful to its decision to grant the port to a private person. We weren't saying if it was 'COSCO' or any other company. We thought the port should be granted to a private person. We thought there would be better conditions for development and would also have the necessary funds to be able to invest and develop the activities around the port. That was when you denounced us in Parliament - Mr Santorinios remembers them, because Mr Giannoulis was not - that we are selling the gold and silver in the country. This, the OPAP, the airports with the 'FRAPORT'. Mr. Tsipras from this step warned investors and said, "Be careful, the Samara - Venizelos government ends. SYRIZA will come and take them back." Of course you're here and you didn't get anything back. You've given even more. Because what you say about "Geroon, strong" and all this and the concessions at the port of Piraeus were not within the SYRIZA government's Memorandum obligations. There was a Memorandum of Understanding to have a degree of privatization. What the privatizations would be, you'd decide. They hadn't told you about the port of Thessaloniki, which, with your signature, your party, Mr. Giannoulis, the port of Thessaloniki was privatized...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u266	Blind you have it from OSE and street...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u267	Mr Minister, please do not speak to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u268	The port of Thessaloniki, Mr. Giannoulis, signed by SYRIZA government, was privatised. You don't understand what I'm saying, you understand something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u269	You're punishing it, you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u270	Do not engage in dialogue, Minister, because Mr Giannoulis will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr Santorinios was in the Chamber and because he is now in the Chamber, I invoke him. Do you want me to remind you of the revolts we experienced when you brought the signature of the privatisation of the PPA? Do you want me to remind you how far down the country and the government when the meeting was interrupted? The meeting of the organs was interrupted then, Mr Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u272	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u273	The meeting was suspended to explain to the company and to change the text. You brought another text, then you changed it, you modified it. Do you think, Mr Santorinier, that a responsible government should behave and that is how you are against interests and against business, business and business, business operators? You were dragged back then, and the excuse wasn't the troika, it was the then Prime Minister's trip to China next week. You knew he couldn't go to Beijing if you hadn't brought what you agreed to before with 'COSCO'. What was the political answer then, Mr Santorinier? The removal of Mr. Dritsa from the Ministry of Commerce. That's it, isn't it? Wasn't there a remodel after Mr. Drits left? That's what history says, Mr. Santorinier. And here we come and say truths. So what now, ladies and gentlemen? It had for five years the PPA had to make certain compulsory investments and it has not done so. In five years, if it had completed the compulsory investment, it would have had to get a 16%, the remaining 16% from the HICP. That is why we are talking about nothing else on the terms of the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u274	We are talking about many other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u275	We're not talking about anything else. What I hear to change the other terms of the contract, they don't exist. We are only talking about this, just to amend so that the PPA gets 16% without having done all the compulsory investments it should have made within five years. And the government is coming to a dilemma from now on. A government comes in and says: I have a business, I have PPA S.A., which had to make these compulsory investments and has not done so. What can I do about this case? I can collide with her, I can go to the arbitration procedure. From the arbitration procedure to ask me to take the bailouts, to ask for the criminal clauses, from the arbitration procedure to go to the courts. Until this is over, everything is frozen, the credibility of the country is affected, it seems that the country is not a business friendly country and we are entering a vicious cycle of controversy. On the contrary, after the decision taken by the Court of Auditors - which has returned and said that the interests of the public are not affected - the Greek Government is coming and what is it doing? It grants 16% by setting even more stringent conditions to enable these compulsory investments to be made within the next five years, increasing the guarantee letter of 15 million for all projects, which were in 2016, by 29 million. It also acquires the right, if the next five years have not made these projects, to get back and 16%, when almost all mandatory investments are met. So who better ensures the interests of the country? We in this move, or in the move that SYRIZA urges us to blame us for not doing, blowing the port into the air? This is the reality in this too, instead of coming and discussing arguments and saying if we could claim more, SYRIZA comes in and puts a lot of things that are either true or only made for communication. SYRIZA told us that the Court of Auditors has not signed the contract they want. We've answered Mr. Ragosi. Neither in 2016 the contract between the Greek Government public and the company that received the tender had signed it. Is it true or is it a lie? SYRIZA comes in and accuses us and tells us to bring in the settlement that TIADE had made along with "MORFA S.A.". We tell them that we are bound by the confidentiality terms you have set in 2016 and you have not brought us the agreement between the GOE and the 'COSCO' in 2016. But you didn't ask us back then. Are these arguments? Are we serious? With these arguments you think you can convince the world or get rid of the lovers you might think you're being chased by the career you've set up, saying you won't sell the port and you sold it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u276	Are you going to tell me about the criminal clauses?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Santorinier, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Santorinier, I understand I'm giving you some tension, but let you know something else. Ladies and gentlemen, in Piraeus there is a municipality party. This municipal party has a name and is called "The Port of Angony" and was created to keep the port from being sold, while the head of this party, which belongs to SYRIZA, was Mr. Dritsas who signed the sale of the port. Uh, that's the problem we're facing now, the psychological problems that SYRIZA has! Hey, we're not going to solve it! We're not going to solve it! What we need to solve is the problems facing the country, Mr Santorinier. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, yes, we believe that this investment must go ahead in terms, in accordance with rules, trying to ensure even more the interests of the Greek State through this process. And you sit across the street in order to satisfy, as I have told you, your inspires or your ideas and blame the government for why? Because the contract you signed is not cancelled. You know what? Until 2014, you were saying that. You started from 2019 and then you said these. There's a difference. You can do it. The people are not following you for just one reason, that from 2015 to 2019 you ruled and did exactly the opposite of what you were saying. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a lot more about SYRIZA and tell us when he took criminal clauses in the four and a half years that were government and in what projects, the timetables, etc. I do not want to talk about who is responsible, I am not a judge, I cannot judge who is responsible for the projects and that is what we are trying to avoid. And for this reason, in order to avoid this problem again, we are making this list so that there is no excuse from any investor and what I would like to suggest is that in all these procedures there should be such a list so that there is no excuse from any investor to use the blockages or bureaucracy or any other problems of the state machine and exploit them. That is why we are making this list so that after five years and the investments we can also have a port that will be leading Europe-wide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u279	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, please, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u281	No, Mr. Santorinier, respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u282	For a minute, Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u283	I'll give you as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u284	Please, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u285	In your dentistry, because you'll have to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u286	For thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u287	Yes, thirty seconds, but you'll have to answer later. Please, he didn't say anything, why are you doing this to me? Nothing has been said. Please, in your dentistry, I'll leave you as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u288	I won't tarnish my flare dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Santorinier, you have to answer and you know it very well, why are you tyranning me now? He'll have to answer and he didn't say anything. He didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u290	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u291	Why are you running me off and maybe I'm old enough to have heart problems and not know it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, a lot of Members have been mentioned to me, but Mr Katasfadi is getting away. Mr. Katasfadou, I will not refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u294	No, Mr. Dritsa, did you hear and come in? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u295	I call for the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u296	No, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u297	It's personal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u298	He didn't say anything, one fact he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u299	I invoke the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u300	Firstly, are you interrupting Mr Santorinio and, secondly, were you where you were and came to answer? What are you talking about? Please. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u301	What's not? You have no right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Santorinier, for your sake now, you know that. You have the floor for thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I give my place to Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u304	These things can't be done. Mrs. Bakadima is called to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u305	Listen to me, listen to me. Mr. Secretary, I'm not going to talk about the substance of the bill, because anyway, it's evasive of your responsibilities, to know what we're talking about. What I will tell you - because your authority, as you know, does not include this briefcase, is well known - it is very important for you to talk about the interruption that has been done to call the agencies three hours that day. So you talk about amendments to the convention, when you are now giving 90 million and the Minister next to you makes three offences: violation of duty, infidelity against the public and damage to the public! Tell them to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u307	Well, that's what I wanted to avoid. Here, Mr. Katsafandos, and here it will stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, please, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Dritsa, he said about SYRIZA's psychological problems, he didn't say yours. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u310	No, I didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u311	Come on, Mr President, we are not young children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u312	He told SYRIZA, take the Minutes. I follow the debate very well. All of you, I don't miss anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u313	First of all, because Mr. Drizzas can...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u314	Say what you want, but what you said was vulgar.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u315	I didn't say about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u316	It was vulgar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u317	No, please, for SYRIZA's sake he said. Look at the minutes, Mr. Dritsa, you were misinformed, because you weren't in there. Look at the Minutes. If it were different, I'd ask him to erase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, give me the floor to defend my honour. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Dritsa, please, he didn't say anything about you. I'd ask him to withdraw it. He told SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u320	You have no right, Mr President, not to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, when I said SYRIZA's 'psychological'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u323	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u324	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u325	Didn't you say the name of Mr. Dritsa that he was in charge of the "Hurry Limonic"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u326	That's what I said and I say, isn't it? What? That he's in charge and founder of the "Lignius of Anguish"? I said it and I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u327	It's a fact, Mr. Santorinier. He didn't swear, please. He didn't touch him on anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u328	Listen, let me tell you. I, of course, said about SYRIZA's 'psychological'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u329	You didn't say in quotes here, now you say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u330	And for Mr. Dritsa I made many references, because he was the founder of the 'Anguish Limnion'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u331	This is where we're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u332	And Minister was the man who signed. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u333	See that he confirms it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u334	Well, that's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u335	Don't you confirm that, Mr. Dritsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u336	There's no way, I've got a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u337	Wait a minute, let's listen to Mr. Katsafado.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u338	What if I confirm that Mr. Dritsas is the Minister who signed the concession of the port? If that's possible! If I can confirm that Mr. Dritsas is the founder of the municipal combination "The Port of Angony", which had a key issue of not selling the port? If possible. Of course I can confirm it. Can Mr. Drizzas deny me this? I can't believe it. At some point, Mr. Santorinier, we're getting away!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u339	You're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u340	You turn around and tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u341	...as Minister or as a Member?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u342	Mr. Giannoulis, don't get into the game too. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u343	You have made a position and you have spoken of Minister Plakatakis and I have heard you from the first meeting of the committee which you speak of for 50 million, 60 million and we end up with 90 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u344	No, ninety from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u345	You say 50 and 40, all together 90.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u346	If you don't know math, 50 and 40, 90 does.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u347	But we're saying the same thing. Don't fight. From that point on, you told me that Mr. Plakatakis should be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u348	When you bring a contract like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Santorinier, let him answer, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u350	So, Mr. Santorinier, you confirm what you said? You confirm that the meeting has been interrupted...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u351	That the meeting was adjourned for the bodies to come to the committees, Mr Katasfados.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u352	Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u353	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u354	And then why have you brought any more things? Did the agencies tell you to bring them in?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u355	No dialogue, Minister. Say what you want to say!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u356	And look at yesterday's committee minutes, Mr. Katsafandos. You're visiting anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Santorinier, you are taking advantage of my kindness! That's what you're doing now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u358	Mr Santorinier, the reality and the truth know it and those who are in this Chamber and those who are outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u359	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Dritsa, tell me first where the personal issue is, because what he said is facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u362	I'm explaining. Mr President, on personal grounds I have a right to speak, because Mr Katsafandos, constantly referring to my name and properties, has come to this reversal of his speech, anger indeed, that we will not solve SYRIZA's psychological problems here. If that's not personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u363	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u364	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u365	I would therefore ask for the floor on staff for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u366	But he didn't refer to Dritsa. SYRIZA said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u367	Do not cut it, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Dritsa, you know very well that only Mr. Ragus can answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u369	He was talking about me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u370	He wasn't talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u371	Hey, how did he not talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u372	He said: "The psychological problems of SYRIZA."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u373	Mr. President, please! It's a matter of moral order. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u374	Yes, but you're upsetting me now! He didn't say about you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u375	Don't worry about it! It's a matter of moral order! You'll understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u376	You're upsetting me, how do we do it? You've had the wrong information. You came here to tell me he said about Drica, but he didn't say about Drica. I'm telling you he said about SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u377	I heard it with my ears, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u378	You also confirm he said about SYRIZA. I'm telling you he said about SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, it would be over now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u380	I heard it with my ears, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u381	Let your parliamentary representative answer. Why are you doing this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u382	Give me two minutes, Mr. President. We'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u383	It won't last two minutes and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u384	Give me a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Dritsa, you have thirty seconds of respect alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u386	Firstly, I do not know how informed Mr Katsafandos - and he is not obliged to be informed - but in Piraeus the Municipal Movement 'The Port of Anguy' was founded in 1998, when there was not even a question of privatization of the port, etc., etc. His title was taken for other reasons for the decline of the then municipality of Piraeus. That's the one. Secondly, the reference to my responsibility for the fact that the sitting was interrupted in committee and in plenary is due, Mr Katsafado - and finally take over as a side of your responsibilities - that I accepted as Minister at the hearing of bodies, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, that 'COSCO' should also be called on to propose a member of the KINAAL - an arrogant and he! - Then. And while I accepted that COSCO should come and be called, instead of coming to Parliament to speak and explain its position, she preferred to send a letter against me by saying all these lies to "KATHMERINA", as I changed the law, so that all the New Democracy Members would take it into their hands and ask my head on a board. And that, when he violated all the rules we gave her. And the next day, the then Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, left for China and did not go to 'COSCO' at all. On the contrary, he forbade the CEO of 'COSCO', of the EPA at the time, Mr. Karakostas, to be on the plane with him, precisely because he was the brain of all this insult, not to me, but to the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u387	Be well, Mr. Dritsa!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u388	To understand how things had been.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u389	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Loading, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u392	Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u393	First of all, I may disagree infinitely with Mr. Dritsa, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u394	You're opponents, you're not enemies!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u395	I respect him, I honor him, and I appreciate him, and I think he understands that I never said anything about psychological issues. No way! But from there on, Mr Dritsa, what I know is that a text of the agreement came to committee and another text has been passed. And the text adopted was based on the letter sent to you by 'COSCO', which is why the interruption took place. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u396	Talk a little louder, because I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u397	I say, Mr Dritsa, that what I know, and I and other colleagues, because we were Members of Parliament and at that parliamentary term, is that the text that you had brought to Parliament for processing and voting has changed after the letter sent to you by 'COSCO' and you have included in the final text the views of 'COSCO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u398	It's not true!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u399	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u400	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u401	It's not true!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u402	As for the 'Blue of Anguish', let me tell you that the 'Blue of Anguish', this move and this initiative, was founded in 1998 in Piraeus, as you quite rightly said. And, yes, I declare that I did not know when the year of establishment was because, as you can see, I did not have any special relationships. But his basic commitment and basic political position around the things of Piraeus is one: the port is not for sale!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u403	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u404	Uh, and you sold it. That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u405	Why, were we hiding it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u406	But that's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u407	Look at the schedule statements! We're forced! We've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u408	But that's what I'm saying. All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Fotini Bakadima has the floor now. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Quiet, please! My colleague's up at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u411	Please and apologise for waiting!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u412	It is always extremely interesting to monitor the two major parties that only the communication opposition makes one another, when they have agreed, when they are the two sides of the same currency. But let's get to today's subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u413	Please, ladies and gentlemen, please! Mrs. Bakada, start over, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have been in this Chamber talking about PPA and COSCO. We have discussed the issue of establishing a shipyard from 'COSCO' in Perama, I have talked several times about 16% and its concession, while I have transferred you to the agony of Perama, Keratini, Drapetsona and the entire second Piraeus on the privileged way you are facing 'COSCO'. Yeah, it's not just you, it was the previous government. However, another example of this treatment is today's debate on the amendment of the concession agreement on the use and exploitation of sites and assets within the port of Piraeus between Greek public and PPA, an amendment that really comes to continue the criminal divestment of the country's main infrastructure, moving towards an additional 16% of the PPA to 'COSCO'. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis continues to walk, even by stepping up its pace, on the road not of development but of slapping and divestment, a path which, of course, also the previous Memorandum Government of Mr. Tsipras has of course set up, showing the good sympathy of the entire Memorandum Arc, regardless of which party has finally the rule of the country in its hands. Unfortunately, over time, the citizens who see their businesses shine, their shops shut down, the unemployment beating them the door, the increases burdening their daily basket and the overcompensation to touch them. Before entering the political and social dimension of the matter, you will allow me to make a reference to two acts, two Court of Auditors decisions, 381 and 382. Decision 381 followed the examination of the lawful amendment of the draft contract of sale and of the draft contract between the GOI and ‘COSCO’ and Decision 382 of the legality of the draft contract of amendment to the concession. If one reads them, one will see at the first point that regarding the legality of the amendment, as set out in 4700/2020, draft contracts with a contractor with the FVO relating to an amendment of existing audited contracts are not subject to ex-contractual control unless they contain substantial amendments to the original contractual text. In the second, it will show that it is unacceptable to introduce for pre-contractual control the present draft contract concerning the modification of the validated concession as both the draft original contract and the subsequent amendments in 2008 and 2016 did not pass the pre-contractual audit. I am tabling both motions for resolutions in the Minutes in the event that a Member or a colleague wishes to know about it in order to have a better picture. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The conclusion, therefore, is that unfortunately the Court of Auditors has been asked to give a clear opinion on a communication. I should also like to point out that I have now tabled a request for a document to be submitted to us by the Greek State to 'COSCO' in connection with the amendment. I think we'll probably have it in space. Of course I come back to the question of the Court of Auditors. The reasons why it is clear that only communists can be, only to give a robe of legality to the crime you are committing against citizens and the country. And a crime that you are going through when 11 major contractually binding investments under the responsibility of the company itself have not been secured, which is evident from the independent engineer's reports and from the letters from the company itself to the PPA. You serve, in other words, on the plate, to use an expression we use often, 16% of the shares of the port without 'COSCO' having completed the compulsory investment projects. You ignore the fact that the non-completion of these is a breach of contractual obligations and the activation of criminal clauses against 'COSCO'. Instead, the GOI and the ministries of finance and shipping launched a loss of dividends and two representatives of the government from the board of directors. The amendment of the Convention also brings about the economic strangulation of a number of professions, since investments were vital to the residents of Piraeus and the adjoining municipalities. Local operators are protesting and complaining that they will soon also close the few shipbuilding companies that have managed to stay open. However, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you do not care about small and medium-sized enterprises and small businesses. It's obvious you don't even care about workers. Instead of making sure that the concession agreement is amended in the direction of protecting wage earners with substantial arrangements addressing the inequalities and the model of contract labour, you are, unfortunately, ensuring that you satisfy the interests of the Chinese colossal - colonialist who is in the port. Contractual relations continue to dominate, workers continue to see labour relations deteriorating. Of course, let us be honest, no one would expect anything other than a government that the Ministry of Labour has made the Ministry of unemployment and social reinsurance ministries, from a government which has acted as a legislative strand of labour rights and acquired rights. Nevertheless, I must, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, acknowledge that you remain consistent in your ideological sign and in your view in favour of oligarchy and the interests of the few at the expense of many. What do you care if the ship repair operations are closed? What do you care if hundreds of families are taken to unemployment and the insecurity of survival? You don't care. Your concern is, your concern is that the coloniser of 'COSCO' gets an additional 16% of the shares so that he is the only sovereign in the port. After all, Minister, I have told you many times in the context of the parliamentary scrutiny of the phenomena of this colonial behaviour. Let me remind you of a recent question last March, following a complaint I received on this matter. So, then, the Association of Shipbuilding Enterprises with an out-of-court protest to PPA SA called for contractual obligations to be fulfilled and for the gaps in the area of Perama to be left to the undertakings of shipbuilding. SENABI in this out-of-court investigation indicated that although the concession agreement is very clear on this and because there are bad languages relating to the two concession buildings in NAZO that have been vaccinated, it would be appropriate tomorrow for these buildings to be auctioned as provided for in the concession agreement. The PPA spokesman then allegedly declared that the issue of the non-recession of the two buildings requires another procedure and cannot be settled from one day to the next. In your reply, Minister, you noted that the issue of the withdrawal of buildings from the PPA to ship repair operations is under investigation by the competent authorities of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, as provided for in Article 16 of the concession agreement and others. I imagine that today, since several months have passed since then, and we are discussing the concession of 16%, the audit referred to in your reply would have been completed. Therefore, you will be able to give us an answer today about what control has shown and what the result is. However, I must be fair, ladies and gentlemen. It was SYRIZA who started selling by giving 67%. The New Democracy is just coming to complete it. I said that yesterday from this step forward that New Democracy and SYRIZA are the two sides of the same currency. It's something I'm saying and I'm going to really keep saying it because that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u415	Unbelievable things!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u416	Mrs. Cassimatis, don't interrupt her. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u417	Mrs. Cassimatis, whatever you say, you signed with a very heavy heart, you finally signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u418	I did not say 'heavy heart'. I said uncircumcised!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u419	Not you, your colleagues, Mrs. Kasimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u420	Carry on, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u421	I'm not going into dialogue. You have the time to place yourself later. You can try to rinse out the port as much as you want. So I keep going. SYRIZA's role and responsibilities are very important. Not deleted. They've been recorded in the political history of this place. It does not describe what has happened since 2016 with announcements or the efforts that are actually made by colleagues of Piraeus II. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. Besides, despite the interventions of the colleagues of SYRIZA's Second Piraeus, reality does not change. The port was granted by SYRIZA. So imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that Yanis Varoufakis had signed a memorandum in 2015 and I was telling you today how bad the memorandum he signed is. Of course you will tell me that if he had signed it, he would have remained, he would have been Minister of Finance of the then government, he would have stayed in his place, we wouldn't be here today and he wouldn't be abyssing us from SYRIZA, as he separates us. Somehow, then, are the reactions of SYRIZA MPs today when their party legislated on the 67% concession by opening the way for the remaining 16%. Let us be clear and clear about the citizens as well as the Greek society. For us, for Mera25, compulsory investments were in the wrong direction in their overwhelming majority. And the minimums that were moving to the real meaning of compulsory investments were made in such a way as to externalise the costs and ensure the maximum profit of COSCO would not bring any growth for many and no improvement in the situation, only profits for 'COSCO'. I said at the outset that the New Democracy does not care for the workers by legislating every anti-linguistic and anti-terrorist action you can take. You are equally indifferent to the environment, because in addition to your environmental legislation, you are happy to close your eyes to the environmental impact of the 'COSCO' action. Neither one, nor two, but many times residents and organizations of Piraeus have even emerged forcefully against them with the relevant Ministries looking from the other. For example, the complaint from the Piraeus Observatory that after an autopsy of the Region's Environment Department, there was a leak into the sea of the bazaars and downhills intended to fill the cement boxes, disperse them in the air, pollution of the sea along the cement boxes, creation of a new beach from the southeast of the monument of Themistocles, which vindicates the appeal of the Piraeus Observatory and the inhabitants, as well as the provisional order to stop the work we had on December 16, 2020. But we don't just have this construction site. We also have the huge construction site of 'COSCO' very close to the houses of the Keratini and Drapetson, a construction site that comes to bear even more environmentally, an area that is already borne by the garbage in Schisto and the cassettes of your other favourite oligarch, who is no other than Mr. Melissanidis of 'OIL ONE'. I am tabling a few photographs from the site of 'COSCO' in Keracini, so that there are at least tabled in the minutes of today's sitting. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, may I say that the Merra25 leaves nothing to any of the Members of this House. He doesn't have any bills to pay off. His only debt is to fight in the interests of our fellow citizens. I personally also have a duty towards the citizens of Piraeus, whom I represent in this Parliament. Their interests, I hold back, I serve their own good. That and I will continue to do at every opportunity and every step. As MERA25 we will fight alongside the citizens, together with the citizens, in and out of the House to overthrow all the colonial conventions voted by the Memorandum Governments SYRIZA - ANEL and New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u422	And we thank Mrs Bakadima. Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos is called in Stepma. A little attention because it will be mentioned in the two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1077 and a special number 22 tabled by the Anti-Population Officer's party. One first comment is that, while SYRIZA as a government was pursuing a policy of extreme overtaxation, it suddenly discovered the policy of lowering taxes somewhat late, but also hypocritical. Let me remind you that, as a government, SYRIZA, among other things, increased the excise duty on almost all fuels while in particular on heating oil the increase reached 22% in 2017. Secondly, he increased VAT in 2016 from 23% to 24%. At the same time, too many broad-consumption products increased VAT from a reduced rate of 13% to 24%. Thirdly, it reduced the amount for the heating allowance so as to reduce the number of beneficiaries by 50%. It also abolished the advance payment of the heating allowance. On the other hand, the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis during the first few months of its term of office, namely October 2019 by means of a joint ministerial decision, increased the heating allowance. Half a million households received an increased heating allowance, with an additional 10% increase in the allowance for each child protected. For the first time, the heating allowance was paid to everyone by the end of the year, contrary to the SYRIZA - ANEL government period, which, in order to receive the heating allowance, citizens should have bought oil first and then waited in January or June next year to get the allowance. The provision in this first intervention of our Government was clear. In particular, each beneficiary could receive the heating allowance as long as it purchased heating oil at twice the allowance or higher. The subsidy thus increased to 50% of the relevant costs paid by the beneficiary for purchases up to that level. I must also point out that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has extended the grant of the heating allowance to other forms of fuel, such as petle, firewood and natural gas. From there, however, we also have the second intervention announced by the Prime Minister at the 85th Thessaloniki International Exhibition this year. I am referring to the new increase in the heating allowance by 20%. Indeed, this 20% increase will apply to both the lowest and the highest levels of benefit. I must also point out that the Government has been subsidising part of the electricity consumer account since 1 October and with retroactive effect from 1 September. I would also like to note that the budgetary cost of the amendment, which SYRIZA has tabled lately and misleadingly, amounts to EUR 2 billion. We are obviously rediscovering times of the unsettled memory of "Thessaloniki Programme", when debt write-offs were announced, the abolition of HISVIA, increases in wages and pensions, and the abolition of the memorandum with a law and an article. In the end, however, many laws and many articles imposed a total of twenty - nine tax burdens. In political terms, this is a question of credibility and confidence. This element, SYRIZA, has lost it definitively. This amendment, as I have said, serves purposes, is not based on real facts and highlights the lack of credibility of the Vice-President. On the other hand, legislative work requires documentation and reliability. It must move within reality and not be guided by the need to recover the ever-reduced influence of SYRIZA, which is recorded in the measurements of public opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1085 and a special number of 23 tabled by my colleagues in the Communist Party of Greece. For the excise duty on fuel, but also for the measures taken by our Government to increase the heating allowance and the beneficiaries, I replied to my position on the amendment tabled by SYRIZA. As you know, excise duties are harmonised taxes at Union level. This means that there is a European directive which regulates both the framework and the conditions for excise duty on fuel and the minimum rates that each Member State - the European Union has to impose. It also means that no State can impose a excise duty on fuel below the minimum limits laid down by the directive, let alone abolish them. You, of course, are the Communist Party of Greece, against the European Union. But the vast majority of the Greek people see the present and future of Greece within the European Union. As far as ENPIA is concerned, I would remind you that Greek citizens have seen for the first time reductions in the liquidation of HNPI with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. One of the first measures we took in July 2019 is the reduction of HISPIA by 22%. In particular, the following is true: Firstly, for real estate of up to EUR 60,000 the percentage of the reduction is 30%. Secondly, for real estate of up to EUR 70,000 the percentage of the reduction is 27%. Thirdly, for real estate of up to EUR 80,000 the percentage of the reduction is 25%. Fourthly, for real estate of up to EUR 1 million the percentage of the reduction is 20%. Fifthly, for real estate of more than EUR 1 million, the reduction rate of HISPI is 10%. In summary, for 2019, the total benefit for natural persons amounted to EUR 673 million and especially for taxpayers with real estate of up to EUR 80,000 was EUR 318 million. For 2020, the total benefit for natural persons amounted to EUR 665 million and especially for taxpayers with real estate of up to EUR 80,000, the benefit amounted to EUR 312 million. They are therefore all aware that all taxpayers, especially those with small and medium-sized real estate, benefited from the reduction in HPVY. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition period with a law and an article has passed unreturned, relaxed, and the citizens have paid it very much. What we must all know and have proved it in practice is that, when there is a financial space available, our government's first choice is to reduce taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, too. Mr.Ioannis Melas from New Democracy is called in Stepma, Piraeus, which Mr. Katsafadas has been called upon to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Pireotis and I, Piraeus most of the colleagues currently in the Chamber, because today in Parliament we are discussing a bill of great importance for Greece, it is one of the major investments that has been made in our country and a very important bill for Piraeus and the wider region of Piraeus, as it is one of the major investments that has been made in our region. It could not have been such a debate without piracy features, with no features in which both the port and the living room are being discussed! We have seen this before, and we have heard it throughout the debate. Such a conversation with pirate traits cannot have inner truths. What are these truths? On 8 April 2016, the PPA Convention between the HICP and the ‘COSCO’ shall be signed at the Maximos Concert Hall. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, SYRIZA government, Left. Alexis Tsipras then described this contract as a move that would make his way of silk as soon as he noted that this investment would be the starting point for attracting other investment in the country. In June 2016 SYRIZA brings this contract to ratification in this Chamber, to the Greek Parliament. What does New Democracy do then? It voted in favour of ratification of the concession contract, because the New Democracy concession was consistent over time and was in favour of the exploitation of the port of Piraeus. You at SYRIZA and many other comrades down at the port, at the same time as the House was spending the debate on the concession of the majority package of shares in "COSCO", you were on the rails of the port and you were protesting about this government choice. With your signature, then, 51% of the COSCO PPA was transferred to 'COSCO', with your signature, the transfer of 16% to 'COSCO' was envisaged at the time of the compulsory investments. And you come now, five years later, and you're what? Are you again against the investment that you have negotiated, you have signed and we have consistently voted on our own policy to the Government of SYRIZA the concession agreement of the PPA? You react to the current agreement, and three days now in the House, you are accusing us of committing a breach of duty and infidelity against the public, that we are causing damage and harm to the public interest, that we are giving everything to the PPA to the detriment of investing in local businesses and societies, that we are destroying the port, until the Court of Auditors has been deceived by the Government. But is that possible? But why do you respond to this regulation, to the friendly arrangement, as the ministers have said earlier, that we are going to do to save the investment? Finally, do you have to tell us, are you in favour of or against this investment made at the port of Piraeus? But let's go see what we're doing. In fact, by bringing this amendment to the Greek Parliament today, a five-year extension is granted for the execution of compulsory investments, specific events for which the PPA is not responsible, and which have suspended the implementation of compulsory investments, 16% of the shares from the TDIDED to the 'COSCO' are transferred, which you - and you have already signed - have signed, and the public is thus collecting the price of the shares of EUR 88 million. If compulsory investments are not completed in the time provided for by the 'COSCO' or 'COSCO', then 16% will be returned to the HIAD and the HIAD will pay back the price to 'COSCO'. In this way, therefore, the obligation of the PPA to complete compulsory investment is made clearer. An additional guarantee letter of EUR 29 million is provided for the transfer of 16% of the shares. EUR 29 million corresponds to a third of the budget for unaccompanied first compulsory investments. The guarantee of EUR 29 million with the first guarantee of EUR 15 million, i.e. guarantees totalling EUR 44 million, is equal to those of the criminal clauses for unfinished projects. The right of veto for the spokesman of the HICP is being extended to the administration of the PPA. What does that mean? The representative of the HICP in the PPA will be able to veto decisions which will result in the reduction of the participation of HICP in the PPA's equity capital or relate to the compliance with the PPA's commitments. You will allow me to stand by the Court of Auditors, which exercises pre-contractual control, and we have heard a lot and a lot of it these days and I think it is worth commenting. The Court of Auditors, as the Minister for Finance said, says for this amendment to the Convention that the amendments are not material, that the extension of the time of the investment period does not substantially alter the main object of the agreement, that there is no change in the economic scope of the existing contracts and that the physical object of the initial contracts is not extended. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment to the Convention, we are safeguarding the interests of the Greek public. We aim to complete the investments and projects undertaken by the Chinese company to implement in the port of Piraeus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, because it is a question of our region, I would like a bit of your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u426	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u427	It is therefore important to complete these investments, as it will be in the interests of society and the economy and the entire city and the wider Piraeus region. Unfortunately today, only 34% of the mandatory EUR 293 million investment has been made, and that certainly does not make us proud. Some outside 'COSCO' are responsible for this. In fact, some of those who are responsible for this in SYRIZA are well aware of them, because you have been on the same political path for many years. Because you accused us that we did not discuss with the bodies, to tell you that yesterday in the committee a very fruitful debate was held, it was our rapporteur with the agencies and a lot of interesting and interesting things were heard. What is worth noting is that we are going to build a contract which was incomplete, that is, the measures taken at the time by the SYRIZA government. It's not all right at the port of Piraeus and we said we were going to tell truths. Many things still need to be done, many steps need to be taken so that this investment can have a significant and substantial footprint in the Piraeus society. There are problems which the Pirates know very well and solutions should be found. I'll stand in two places. You there at SYRIZA keep saying you're the guardians of the working class. What did you do about working conditions in the PPA? How did you ensure the first contract that you negotiated and brought the conditions for the workers? I heard Mr. Haritsis say: 'In the agreement we made, managed and managed to ensure that the PPA does not provide services and receive services from local businesses'. What did you do to ensure that in practice? Nothing. And you know what's going on? The local enterprises of Piraeus, which are related to maritime activity, have not received what they should receive from this investment and therefore you did not care, in 2016, for signing this contract, to do anything. We're coming to save this big investment. We did not choose the path of conflict and the risk of blowing up this investment in the air, but we entered a process of friendly settlement, a negotiation process, a discussion process, because certainly the message that the country has to pass out is not that Greece is a country that is not friendly to investment. We can't get through the wrong messages. Greece is a country that is friendly to investment. We want investment, we want to create new and better paid jobs and, of course, in an area such as Piraeus, Drapetsona, Nice, all the coastal municipalities, which are not the richest municipalities in the country. People over there are the people of the carpet, and we need to create such investments to get there. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a SYRIZA colleague said 'don't try to save us'. We're not trying to save you, honestly. And I read just now about the "Liman of Anguish", the municipality party led by Mr Dritsa - said so before the Deputy Minister Katsafandos - at this moment he is gathering in Pasalimani and protesting and fighting for this investment not to take place. We're not trying to save you, because you're not saved! Lies have short feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr. Mela. Mr Vassiliou Vassilidis has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos is prepared from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because I think that, as the debate in the committee responsible has shown, things are quite clear if we are prepared to look at reality in the face. What do I mean by that? The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have in front of us the next step towards an investment which is being implemented through our country's strategic relationship with a country of undeniably important importance, China. It is good, then, not to silence the geopolitical nature of this investment and even though one would expect that, for reasons, if anything, ideological affinity with the People's Republic of China, SYRIZA would support this investment, in reality we see the fundamental abstraction of the Civilian Opposition Party for any private initiative and direct foreign investment. We have seen this over time, and even since 2011, the attitude of today's Officer Counterfeiting for any private initiative and direct foreign investment is specific. Since 2011, therefore, the attitude of today's officer counter-population in the prospect of privatising the PPA has been a dedicated "not everything". However, in 2016 as a government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you signed up to the fact that everyone supported this investment, from local society, our national bodies, our European partners, a contract that, as it seemed from the hearing of the bodies, was rather problematic and nonetheless acted as a brake on the investment. But we come to today, where, as I said before, we have to face a reality. Who's that? The investment has led, despite the efforts of the Government in the last two years and the good climate it has developed in its relations with the PPA and the 'COSCO', to a dead end in terms of the programme of compulsory investments in the first period. The prospect of some form of arbitration began to be faint, with disastrous consequences for the economy of local society and the country, due to the importance of the port of Piraeus. The investment would have been frozen, the projects would have been postponed indefinitely, the port would have been devastated, the relations between Greece and China would have been tested, a prospect that I really do not think would have contributed to anyone. So the government, and with drivers from the shipping and finance ministries, is choosing the way to negotiate the revision of the convention. We ensure that the implementation of the contract will proceed, always ensuring the interests of the Greek State and the realisation of the investment. We have in front of us, ladies and gentlemen, a revised contract, which, although it confers the ownership of 16% of the PPA against the planned price for the HICP, before the implementation of the compulsory investment programme, creates a strong incentive to complete it, mainly through the prospect of completing the dilutive heresy and returning the shares to the HSE, otherwise within the five plus five years. In addition, the transfer of shares is combined with the provision by COSCO of an additional guarantee letter for the GOI of EUR 29 million. This guarantee letter is to be added to the guarantee letter already granted to the Greek State of 15 million under the concession agreement. The influence of the GOI and decision-making of the PPA on the realisation of the first compulsory investment and the protection of its share rights is also strengthened, as the new revised contract provides for a vetoing of the GOI over these decisions. Finally, the escalating process of resolving each dispute separately limits the possibility of a generalised dispute, while maintaining the obligation of the PPA and of the 'COSCO' to implement the first compulsory investments, in any case, regardless of whether or not the solution is paid. In other words, the revision of the convention we are about to vote on today ensures the viability of the investment and the uninterrupted functioning of the port of Piraeus, with all that that implies to the neighbouring municipalities and to our own national economy. The capacity and time margin for ‘COSCO’ to implement its contractual obligations is allowed. With realism, therefore, and methodicality, the government takes the investment out of the deadlock and effectively defends the prestige of the country against a strategic international partner. For all these reasons, therefore, we are voting in favour of the draft law under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement and Mr Panagiotis Kourublis is prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the very important Greek-French defence agreement. This is not only because it strengthens the security of the country, but because it shows the direction and orientation that Greece and France want the European Union to have, in particular, towards the strategic autonomy, the defence and security of the European Union and its states. However, ladies and gentlemen, we need clarification as to what is going on with the continental shelf and the EEZ, which do not constitute natural territory in which national sovereignty is exercised. It is a point, ladies and gentlemen, to which the Government must focus and clarify, so that the agreement takes account of the specific situations. So positive, then, the Greek-French defence agreement. I'm coming to this bill. We are talking, Minister, about a major issue arising from the legislative process. I would say that he referred to this in the best way and in detail our rapporteur, Mr Biaghis. I do not need to say any more and to expand, as Mr Biagis has said in detail and in detail. However, ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK, the Change Movement, has been in favour of the concession contract for the use and exploitation of certain sites and natural assets within the port of Piraeus, and even without the sale of the majority package of shares. "But with what?" one will wonder. With an institutional framework, it is the answer. We therefore want an institutional framework. And we want an institutional framework that ensures healthy competition, respect for the conditions of concessions and, of course, the protection of the natural environment. Institutional framework, therefore, for there to be a strong Port Regulatory Authority. An independent authority, therefore, with regulatory and control powers, is responsible for monitoring the market and the port activities. An independent authority, Minister, which will operate consultatively to the state, but at the same time will be an independent authority that can closely monitor the implementation of concessions and impose clauses and sanctions, where necessary. An independent authority, which your Government, the New Democracy Government, has made available on the pretext that it is not working properly and a very big question, for which we would like an answer, is: why have you done so? So today, Minister, you are bringing about an amendment to the convention, which is a challenge for all parties and all parties involved. Do you think, Minister, that there was a consultation between the parties? No, of course, because the debate focuses on whether or not the amendment is in the public interest. This, Minister, let it be held. There is, indeed, a common reflection today from all the sides of the House and the government must respond. Questions have been raised that need to be answered. The contract between the PPA and the State is amended to resolve issues that have arisen as a result of the PPA. In fact, for delays in the execution of projects and the first compulsory investments, that is to say, commitments which have not been implemented by the contractor in connection with the completion of basic investments and infrastructures. The recent governments are also responsible for these delays, ladies and gentlemen, but in particular for the Government of New Democracy. Minister, I call for your attention. The PPA of the EUR 290 million investment has made 90 million and this in five years. And let that be held. So, what do we see here? We see that there is the definition of oligopoly, when in fact the EUR 130 million comes from the ESRB. And we are talking about critical investments, infrastructures in the port that are absolutely necessary. It should be stressed here that, while there was provision for the transfer of the additional 16% of the shares in the PPA due to the failure to implement the commitments, as well as, of course, for the submission of financial clauses, the Government of New Democracy, without sufficient justification, Minister, insists that this framework should not be used to achieve better conditions or even better times. It overlooks, in other words, the responsibility of the PPA for not implementing the compulsory investments, investments which the Greek State has explicitly requested to implement, because otherwise the contract would not exist. And what is the government doing today? It conveys its responsibility to the public, to the services and even to the citizens and claims that they are responsible for not making investments. So let each one draw his conclusions. However, ladies and gentlemen, today's amendment clearly provides for more favourable conditions, despite the already serious delays, without focusing on the public interest. Many questions, Mr Minister, about this bill, which you do not really answer. More specifically, the duration of the first investment period is to be extended by a five-year extension and an additional five-year extension. Describe facts that may arise to delay completion of projects. A second compulsory investment is envisaged in a rapid process, and this, of course, even in non-compulsory investments. They are regulated, Minister, topics for amending the concessions and for resolving disputes. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a moral issue, a question of good governance. Of course, if the Port Regulatory Authority were to operate, it would have to submit an opinion. Ann! These, of course, make sure the government does not exist. And I'm talking about the independent authority. Also, Minister, you have abolished all regulatory and supervisory powers to be the way open for external intervention. It was heard yesterday in committee - and let it be kept - that the Port Regulatory Authority has not become aware or recipient of the imported text, namely the amendment to the concession agreement. If nothing else, unheard of! The government is now claiming that the regulation does not cause expenditure to the State budget. This refers within the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, of course exposing the State institution itself. And all this, when the amendment does not bring any, but no profit for the Greek State. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it leads to it losing any negotiating paper, such as, of course, the transfer of 16% of the shares in the PPA, without ensuring that the outstanding investments are implemented as soon as possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, let me conclude, this is a missed opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to renegotiate the concessions on better terms, but also an important flaw in the extension. One flaw, I would say, is a blow to the development and sustainability of businesses, which in recent years have been experiencing successive crises. For all the above and for what our rapporteur, Mr Biagis, has described in detail and documented, the Change Movement says 'no' in this bill. That is why we call on the government, even at the last minute, to take back these unacceptable arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos. Mr. Curublis, will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u433	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u434	You can start, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u435	So you'll give me some more time. Mr President, you will allow me, before I begin to place myself on the draft law under discussion concerning this convention, to refer to a memorable and destructive behaviour of the Minister when he dared something he rarely dared to say about his political opponent. And I say this because since 1996 I have been in this House, my position on the Right has been known, but I have never questioned a colleague for his patriotic feelings and indeed a member of a democratic party such as the New Democracy. A human being - because this is what this is about - is questioning the patriotism of Thodoris Dritsa and Panagiotis Kourublis. Let's find out what's going on with one another and the other family...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u436	When did this happen, Mr. Kurubli?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u437	You should ask him, Mr President, why this is inconsistent with a democratic Parliament, where there are some limits between us. Fighting, fighting, of course! That's what democracy demands, that's her beauty, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u438	I'll agree with you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u439	...but questioning the patriotism of two politicians with such an important course is shameful and disgraceful! And the New Democracy itself had to disapprove that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u440	Let's move on to the bill, I'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, in this Chamber, the governing party is still disinforming and not informing. And you're really gonna let me make a report I didn't want to do. I fear that there is or should be such a great deal of or a lack of mental understanding. I'm attending all the meetings. Can anyone come out and say that SYRIZA's resignation supported the view that the investment should not be made and that it should not continue? Is that what the Members of the New Democracy have understood, or does that suit them to say misinforming the Greek people? We disagree on two things, Mr President. We disagree on the authoritarian paternalistic behaviour of 'COSCO'. And I have to tell you - because I know people and things and the people of 'COSCO' hear it - that even the most fervent supporters of this investment have been disappointed by the behaviour, greed and immunity that they have shown to both workers and local society. Not only has it implemented its contractual obligations and we are now coming to extend it, it has only limited its work to containers and containers. That's what's of interest to her, that's what she's doing. The rest of the works where it suits her. He attempted to hit the ship repair zone. I won't say what the ship repair zone means to the area. He attempted to create the fourth pier. He effectively attempted to devaluate archaeological sites. That is what we disagree on, Mr President. We're not against investment. We are against the medieval type of investment that they want to think is where they came from, not to say a word, Mr President, that the people are using. Well, we're not China here. It may be a big country, it may be an economic giant, but here there is a democracy. We're something different. They may have learned other than their own civilization. Here we have learned other than our culture and that has its own value and importance. We didn't resist. On the contrary, we have guaranteed them in our own governance - I believe the current government - all the conditions, Mr President, for their contractual obligations to be fulfilled. They don't want to implement them. They had all the power. We gave the engineer the power to give them the assurances in advance. I have spoken that they should go ahead and as a minister responsible, but not what they wanted. I was asked to break, Mr President, now - the strike done by the workers - and I told them that blood would be spilled. Do you understand what that means? I signed the concession of the heavy and unhealthy ones, describing the port facilities that you were fourteen years ago, and you no one dared to do so and the SYRIZA government did so. Today, they are not implemented and I regret the representative of the workers who came to the committee and did not say a word about this. That kind of slavery? I mean, mercy! Mr President, since the government has unfortunately made a great mistake - I do not want to say a little more - telling the Court of Auditors that the public is responsible for what has happened. Well, that was a big mistake. What else will be added to the convention to give up all these rights and give them these extensions, Mr President? And they weren't up to five years? We're gonna give them another five and go and say? So I say to you that they will never implement these contractual obligations. And what happened? What else did we do, Mr. President? We gave them the extension. I'll take that, too. We have given up our rights, too, on the clauses. I'll take that, too. We had a strong gun, 16%. Why did we not give it to the 16% Convention on the condition that their obligations were fulfilled? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy who have spoken, is that what is happening now? So we kept 16% as Greece to force them to take over and implement their obligations? Mr President, in order not to eat time, there is much to say - there is also one question if the Ministry sent this convention to the European Union, to the committee responsible, if it was sent to the RAL. No, it did not send it to RAL, but it took the culmination of Regulation 352 from RAL and the Minister took it, who is also a representative of the Greek public shareholder in the port. So how will he exercise that responsibility? Wasn't there even a legal counsellor with basic knowledge of the first year of law to tell him that this is wrong? He withdrew the DAL. Yes, sir. Question: Two years has there been any rise? And be careful, Mr. Plakatakis. If you drive things to the point of paying the Greek State 40 million in order to raise the submerged ships in the port, 'COSCO' will have committed another major crime to the detriment of the Greek State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u442	And close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u443	I'm closing, Mr. President. Unfortunately, this is the way in which public interest does not serve. That is what we are stressing. We're not against the investment. We are against this kind of logic, in a logic that is subject to the logic of the colonial perception of the Chinese and manifests slavery. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u444	Thank you too, Mr Kurubli. Mrs Nina Kasimatis is called to Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u445	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the colonial agreement to transfer the remaining 16% of TDIDE to PPA - COSCO and its disastrous consequences for Greece, which, unfortunately, are not only economic, but also concern its position on a global scale, so also its overall prospects, economic and cultural. According to some definitions, the operative cause of colonialism is the given underdevelopment and delay of the colonized country. But because I adequately respect myself, the Greek people and the plenary of the House, I will not accept the historical cause as a historical cause, as Nikos Psyroukis teaches in the "History of Colonialism". In other words, there is a framework system, a capitalist system, which structures productive relations in a way that produces inequality. Contrary to what the Prime Minister declares, they are not given. They are created with exploitive relationships and reproduced. This system has subjects, players, big, small and few, Utian. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Especially for Greece, which is shaped as a sovereign state, the players of few and Utian are a false class of basic scoundrels - an illegitimate joke, to say it elegantly against Panagiotis Kodilis and Vassilis Philias - and the party that represents them. You share intrinsic characteristics of nation's vendors in the material sense, reproducing your internal power against the country, highlighting your inferiority complexes to an entire nation as existing internationally. You are making the country village here first, because in the big city, in the world - the city you are assigned for homeland, you are clearly last. And in the anniversary year of the two hundred years of the New Democracy and the Revolution of 1821, I will repeat it in every bill, in order to record the historical context of the subjugation policies of the nation that you are implementing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, while celebrating the Anglo-Saxon ideological line that the foreigners have devastated the Turkish yoke and not the Greeks, because the Greeks "because they're shattered" - at the same time, silence the Kapodistrias line for the creation of a truly independent state, who, not by accident, is murdered by members of a family belonging to the ruling order of the time, given the relations it had with the international factor. Since then, the forces of vision for national independence and social progress have been reconstructed in this field, against the post-practical capital and its political puppets. In view of this, now, in the year 2021, you are literally handing over, among other key wealthy resources, the remaining and very important contractual rights of the Greek State at the port of Piraeus to a foreign company and basically to a foreign country. Not on your own, of course, to be fair. Your ideology and practice crosses the political power system horizontally, as was shaped in a cartel party since the mid-90s, leading to bankruptcy and the 2010 Memorandum, which institutionalised international financial control over the country. So, then, the relocation of the PPA begins in 1999 on modernisation, since we need to talk about history, as it has proved, in this Chamber, when the country loses its way, loses its prospect of having a central role in international transport, as it had previously lost, and the possibility, through the funds it lost, for the railways and this is a very topical debate ahead of the Recovery Fund and the way in which your Government manages it. In 2008, ‘COSCO PACIFIC’ is awarded to the container station. In 2009 the government of the alias PASOK assumes - beforehand - the privatization of the PPA, in the name of its neoliberal orthodox that will dismantle it together with the country. And in 2010, for the rapid promotion of the privatisation programme, the then Ministerial Council decided to set up the Public Property Fund, then announcing the privatisation of the PPA and POL in 2011. After the fall in the 2012 elections, the concession contract is drawn up by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK. This cycle closes as a merrotrag, and therefore we also notice the comic phenomenon of all the protagonists and the responsible ones, in order to renounce the responsibilities of their choices, to have a fatal interest in the consequences of their fatal and conscious decisions. The government of SYRIZA is clearly excluded, the only one who had genuinely wished to renegotiate the renegotiation of the renegotiations he inherited, in this case, and the concession contract, which, in compliance with the commitment of Alexis Tsipras to the people of Kerazioni, Drapetsonas, Perama, Salamis and all of Piraeus, has ensured exceptions to the areas attributed to the coastal municipalities, the emblematic fertilisers of Drapetsonas and the land of the ship repair, the antiquities and the new civilisations in Piraeus, Keracini, Perama, Salamina. It ensured the viability of the Perama ship repair zone and in general the ship repair and related small and medium-sized enterprises in the region, thus also jobs, of course, labour rights within the PPA, as well as created institutional barriers to safeguarding the public interest by establishing the DAL, upgrading the RAL and the operation of the ESA, as well as setting mandatory investments for the investor. We are now going to this because it is the stone of the scandal, since the non-implementation of these compulsory investments triggers criminal clauses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] After you do not understand, Minister and Minister, I will address the members of the Board of Directors of the HIAD. I will tell them that according to Law No4389/2016 and Article 7, the irresponsible is subject to preconditions: firstly, lack of trespass or serious negligence. In this case, if contractual obligations are abolished, there is damage to the public and, secondly, a decision of the Court of Auditors binding on each court. However, the provision with a lot of care indicates that the commitment only concerns the issues considered in the light of the information provided. Any discouraging by the Court of Auditors may establish at least serious negligence on the board of directors, which may lead to the removal of the protection of the members of the Board of Directors. So there's further investigation to search for your responsibilities for all of you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So yesterday I asked the chairman of the Committee on Production and Trade, Mr Vlao, who did not respond to the invitation. Of the institutions, Mr Angelos Karakostas, President of the Board of Directors of the Greek Ports Association. It didn't surprise us. However, he also refused to attend the Executive President of the Port Regulatory Authority, RAL, Athanasios Torunides, who, however, sent a memorandum which I asked and was actually sent to me by the services. It was then sent to the whole committee. Mr. Ministers, I will table his two letters for the record, because man says terrible things. First of all, that RAL until yesterday had not become aware or recipient of the text of the agreement to amend a concession agreement, but has not been received by the Authority, in accordance with Articles 112 and 132 of Law4389/2016 on the expression of an opinion on its provisions. More generally, there would be how badly trusted a partner 'COSCO' would be to proceed with a friendly settlement when, within the port, we have clear monopolistic practices in the management of solid and liquid waste. I asked you a question. You didn't deposit the documents I asked you to do, Mr. Placiotakis. When he puts tolls on the ship repairers, I asked you a question. You referred my question to your ral and bravo. RAL made a decision. I'll testify. He's invoking my question. It shall be mentioned and ruled in favour of ship repairers. But illegality continues and, of course, environmental violations and the disposal of 'COSCO' in Keracini, Perama, Salamina, Pirate. I return to Mr. Torunides' letter. It says, "In any case, the Port Regulatory Authority has received complaints." ‘...following the deadline laid down in Article 7.2 of the concession agreement, the Authority was to initiate the relevant procedures in accordance with the existing provisions’. In addition, under its decision No 188/2020, the Authority adopted a regulation under the authorisation provision in Article 112 of Law No 489/2016. Although this has been repealed, the regulation adopted by the Authority shall apply and may benefit in part from the provisions laid down and the procedure for the imposition of criminal penalties for infringements as amended by this Amending Convention.’. Do you understand what the Port Regulatory Authority says, Minister? That at the moment we're talking about, the criminal clauses can be imposed, but the Port Regulatory Authority has not received any notice of nothing from you. I'll tell you later. ‘RAL exercises the relevant right or proceeds only if prior agreement has been reached by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy or the Minister for Finance’. You tell me, you didn't want to. However, ‘after 29-1-2021 and the entry into force of Law 4770/2021, the Port Regulatory Authority shall be responsible for proposing to the relevant Ministers of Finance and Shipping the exercise of the contractual rights of the Greek State resulting from concessions in its name and on its behalf’, as amended by Article 112 n.4389/2016 pursuant to Article 48 of Law 4770/2021. So, poorly, buttock, RAL has not been asked and the text of the amendment to the contract has not been given to it. In fact, the Executive President says that you may even now ask questions and accordingly suggest and maintain the possibility of submitting opinions on a case-by-case basis at the request of the relevant Ministers. We'll see about this. You should read them because you haven't mentioned them. Yesterday, this was absolved. I'm done. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u446	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u447	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u448	I saw that the Pirates were given all tolerance in time, so you too, in order not to protest the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much. I want a minute and a half, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u450	Not a minute and a half. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u451	And speaking, you know that the transfer of the 16% rate from the Greek State via the GOI to the "PO - COSCO" without the agreed contribution, the infrastructure projects, can conditionally establish state aid. Perhaps we should be forced to compensate the European Union for double damage to the public. I ask you, Minister: have you sent a question to the competent services of the European Union before the transfer - and Mr Kurublis asked it - or will we find ourselves doubled? Because you could - and everyone should know this - ask the PPA for another consideration or even maintain the current conditions with a simple time extension of their fulfilment and a corresponding gradual transfer of 16%. You, however, give it all here and now and you get nothing but create a bad precedent at the expense of the country for every new investment, saying that arbitration is a timely process. So the public is absolved the international practice of arbitration and any current investor who already has contracts with the public will seek to satisfy his claims, despite the breach of the conditions on his part and without the Greek State making arbitration? What do you keep us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u452	Put it down, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u453	I'm done, Mr. President. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u454	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, you have time until tomorrow when this agreement will be ratified with the majority vote to suspend the process and the Members of the New Democracy must show and vote against if you are finally moving. Do not transfer 16% of the Greek State to the ‘PO - COSCO’, request and receive an opinion from RAL on the violations and conditions that you have agreed with China...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u456	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u457	...and expect Greek justice to be ruled after the judgment of the appeals submitted - half a minute, Mr. President - by citizens and institutions, as well as to end the criminal proceedings in question against the "PO - COSCO" which are under way. You are obliged to do this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u458	No more. Mrs Kasimatis, you have spoken more than the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u459	...and after I have proved this to you in plenary, if you do so, you are consciously committing infidelity against the public and allowing violations of Greek and Community law...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u460	Well, hang up. I don't want to remove your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u461	Wait a minute, Mr President, three lines. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u462	I've booked the time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u463	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u464	Mrs. Cassimatis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u465	I understand the difficult position in which you've been found...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u466	The Minister didn't even talk that much!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u467	Nor did the ministers speak, but I am a MP in Piraeus and I represent too much people and you will hear me for ten more seconds. Mr. Yoyakas, take care of Thesprotia and leave the port of Piraeus alone, because you neither know it nor respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u468	You respect us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u469	You're closed, Mrs. Cassimatis! You don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u470	If you go ahead, this will have consequences for the environment, for ship repair, for the country's geo-economic influence because of the gravity of the port in Piraeus and even for Turkey because of regional competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u471	But they don't talk for so long. You have addressed the Bureau and I have applied the time taken by both Mr Dritsa and Mr Melas, but you have exceeded every limit. Excuse me. The rapporteurs have not spoken that much. It is known in this House that the Ministers for Justice, Finance, Labour and Social Affairs, Culture and Sport, Home, Shipping and Island Policy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 29-9-2021: "Rapid political trial, adaptation of the provisions of the political procedure for the digitisation of civil justice, other amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Marios Katsis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Right from the old attempts by this amendment to the concession agreement to cover the responsibilities of the PPA - COSCO for not fulfilling the company's contractual obligations, which have only been implemented at 38%. It relieves it of the non-implementation of the EUR 300 million invested, making it the predominant master of the port of Piraeus to the detriment of the local economy, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises and the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned. It provides it with 16% of the shares guaranteed for the execution of the projects, with the State depriving it of the proceeds of the corresponding dividends, while exempting it from the payment of criminal clauses for delays in project executions and for the failure to provide the minimum level of service. It is clear after all this debate which has taken place - colleagues from SYRIZA have highlighted it in the most encrypted way and the most reliable citizen who has voted for New Democracy - that the supposed government of investment does everything in order not to make investments in the essential sense of the term. These are "parks", "air" projects, land and water in friendly business interests, and this is Greece of Mr.Mitsotakis and the citizens who are watching us day after day see it and judge it. In fact, to confirm further the fact that the New Democracy is not being cut for investment, I would like to make a reference, since I am the last speaker, to what my fellow citizens see in the prefecture I am elected to, in Thesprotia, because there is a procedure for selling, selling out the port of Igoumenitsa, 'OLAG SA', with at least 67% of the share of the third largest port in the country which is actually being given 'private' the whole coastal front, the whole land area of the private investor, with what this means for changing the daily life of citizens, entrepreneurs, free access areas etc. The municipalities concerned with the New Democrat Party, the municipalities of Igoumenitsa and Philiattes, all the time before in the summer, had started mobilisations with permanent municipal council decisions, the exclusion of the port of the interior, the exterior, a course in the centre of the city, and the latter are committed to the New Democracy prolongation. But, for the port of Igoumenitsa, which is sold at least 67% of it, is there a commitment to the notice that has been issued by the Government of New Democracy to order that the investor and the private and the contractor who will come to buy it will make an investment? He's committing anything? Absolutely nothing. It takes it 'bier rather than', a port with a lot of revenue, the third port in motion in the country, with its entrance to and exit to the western gateway, which is part of the combined transport network, with two roads - Egnatia and Ionia - and with huge passenger and freight traffic, while the third phase of the port, worth 80 and 90 million euros. What do we see? The Minister for Maritime Affairs came last July, in the summer, he met with the local players and mayors and said that by the end of August, Mr Plakkatakis, you will give the land zone to the citizens, the citizens. We've reached 29 September. It's the ultimate mockery. It's the ultimate humiliation. You are not consistent with what you announce to the people of Europe. The reason why my colleague from the New Democracy, Vassilis Yoyakas, has come into the port of Piraeus, is that he is supposed to give you the land area as well. What land zone are you going to give? You're getting out the other way. The rapporteur thanks you in committee, "I thank the Minister for the finance and the Minister for Maritime Affairs that he will hand over to the local society the land area". Why does he please you? Did you bring any amendments to change the concession agreement? Do you exclude parts, what is claimed by municipalities and local communities? Or does the appointed OLIG's "blue" management help this rug process not to be done with the "private" means? The "private" means the "blue" administration. This is illustrated by the fact that for the first time a port with 5.5m euros annual turnover and 11 million reserves had a history low in profits and revenues with 'part of' direct awards and the splitting of public money. As far as I say from the Step of the House I have submitted to you, Mr Plakkatakis and Mr Stakoura, and so far I have not been answered or answered by any responses I have received you say you are unresponsible. It is disgraceful that you are talking about investment, which is all you are interested in is the sale of critical infrastructure, national infrastructure of national and strategic importance, and that you are opposed to the will of local communities and that you are smuggling local players. I close with the following: The last "remuneration" for the "Government of Excellence" was the fact that it was revealed that the appointed administration, the CEO of "OLGS S.A." has no legal appointment, because the degree based on the law on the definition of administration had to be an AEI, while the degree from the CEO is a TEI. And I asked you, Mr. Plakkatakis, if the appointment is lawful and you have declared unauthorized. So you are irresponsible for the land area and inconsistent with bringing it to an end August, as you have said, when you came to Igoumenitsa, unresponsible for disseminating and party of direct awards, unreserved for the degree, unreserved for the reserves and the fact that all the revenues of the port have disappeared - historically has not been made before - and now you tell us that you will bring investments and that you are the pro-investing government and that this contract that you bring with 'COSCO' is in the interest of the Greek people. The Greek people have understood you. There is nothing to expect from you and, indeed, all you have to do is to commit, if not today, an amendment by the end of the meeting to deliver the land area, to commit when you will bring to Parliament the amendment to the concession agreement for the performance of the terrestrial front of the city of Igoumenitsa and the Municipality of Philiattes to the local society. We won't have two cannabis in town, and the new owner and the elected mayors. Only the elected representatives will be the ones who will be able to determine the course of things through the elections to self-government and not the one who will buy the port and have dowry and property the whole city. Thank you very much, Mr President, and apologise for the abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr. Katsey, too. Although as I see all the rapporteurs, with the exception of Mr Jogakas who was in his time, you have taken plenty of time in your protology. Nevertheless, I will give the rapporteurs four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u474	I have more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u475	I see you've all taken more time. I'm starting at you, Mrs. Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u476	I will come to the step, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u477	Come to Stepma, but we're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u478	I have more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u479	You won't develop your protology. Dentality tells itself what it is. It is a final remark on the overall climate of the full-day sitting. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u480	Minister, you started with the rhetorical question if we want investment. Of course, you mean investment for capitalists to win and for workers and people to lose, because you really mean the capitalist development you believe and implement. All governments - New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - you give, you give public property and, indeed, you give them money from above, for free, from development laws, European money, people's money, to increase their profitability and privileges. That is what you and you and you have done with 'COSCO'. This is what you are implementing anyway. You are also obliged by the directive on the liberalisation of port services of the European Union. It's the same thread that unites you. At the same time, you also ensure cheap labour with as few rights as possible. You both break down - and today and the previous - even the last weapon of workers, the right to strike. It's all about bosses and capitalist development. This policy, precisely, does not allow you to abolish the excise duty for a relief to the people today, what we have proposed in our amendment, and the Secretary of State for Finance has answered us negatively. But what have you and the previous ones cultivated here with 'COSCO'? That it will develop, that it will leave money in the country, even the microprofessionals and the domestic urban order thought something would get, a benefit. But what monopoly would it be if he didn't devour everything in his path? He doesn't even leave any crumbs. It's all packed up. I was told by a small professional who has cranes that he needed 'COSCO' for a house a small crane. He brought him from China. This small-professional, this local and he was buying from China. These are capitalist relations and also delusional ones. You told us again with a rhetorical question that we want consistency in the investor. Yes, but as far as Cosco is concerned, it sounds like a joke. Only in its profitability is consistent and you are paving the way for all the bourgeois governments. At last, however, you told us and who was to blame for the delays in compulsory work. It's the public's fault. We ask: Do you mean the Monomele Court of First Instance, the Council of State, the Metsovio Polytechnics and the CONTROL, which highlighted the pollution and the courts which imposed insurance measures to protect public health, the environment and their cultural monuments? And I would like to say something to you: where a delay was made in the container delivery was the strike of the workers in order to force the 'COSCO' to sign a collective agreement. That's why you want to sneeze the workers from the right to strike. It won't pass, as the Hatzidakis law will not pass. But it is exaggerated and it is not believed to say that “if we did not give the extra privileges and exemptions to “COSCO”, the Noah flood would come,” when Piraeus’s “bilet” is a golden vein and it appears in its ever-increasing profitability. It is therefore a lie and hypocrisy to say New Democracy and SYRIZA that you signed such agreements and privatisations for the public interest, identifying the interests of monopolies, capital, with those of the people. Only suffering will have the popular layers. And I'm ending by saying about the criminal attack of golden Nazi groups with wood, lotteries, stones, and even molotov bombs through the ESAL Stavroupolis against parents, students and students. The police's attitude is unacceptable. At the time of the attack of the fascist groups, police forces were pushing off chemical and tear gas to parents, students, students, and backing up fascist forces. We're denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u481	Close the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u482	I shall conclude, Mr President. Inadmissible, too, is the general wording of the Ministry of Education, which identifies the struggles of young people against fascism with criminal, fascist elements. But know fascism won't pass. At the moment, there is an ongoing fight against fascist concentration in the streets of Stavroupolis, as in progress there are rallys in Pasa Port against the transfer of shares to “PO - COSCO” organized by the unions and the Piraeus Labour Center with main message: “Not at the master plan of “COSCO”. Not in the anti-grass designs of business groups and government." Our mind and heart are with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u483	We said four minutes and not six, Mrs Manolakou. In any case, I do not know whether I should close the sound and the microphone, and indeed I was respected because you said 'I'm finishing at four' and I did not interrupt you. I am requesting warmth to those who can speak from your position, unless there is a special reason, not from Step to Secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u484	It's a matter of masks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u485	Now the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Biagis, has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u486	Trying to earn time, Mr President, three words, and I will only say. The Change Movement, Minister, is clear. It is inconsistent with the view of the Government and the New Democracy of the total concession of the port and especially in this case of the port of Piraeus. The Change Movement has a specific position, which has to do with the concession of use of the port and analogous use and control of operation from there on. One - one - to end these issues. We say 'yes', that is to say, the concession of port activities and, indeed, the control and monitoring by an independent authority, which you have effectively abolished. Also, in a contract, by using the rights stemming from it, we have the right both of us and the contractors to proceed, if you wish, in a contract complaint, which we have never mentioned, or, if you like, to resort to arbitration. By appealing to arbitration, we in no way want to say that we denounce the convention. It is legally clear that this has been a long time and not from us. By appealing to arbitration, under no circumstances does the investment stop working. By appealing to arbitration, we claim rights for the local society and the Greek public. We tell you, Minister, that you had all the time, given that the contractor and not the company 'COSCO' did not do what was planned and within the timeframe provided for in the contract, on the one hand, to discuss with the institutions and society - and, on the other, you did not do so - and, on the other, to come and consult the world and the parties that are in Parliament today. We tell you, Minister, that if you had exploited the institutions, such as the Port Regulatory Authority, you would also have an opinion on this matter and a documented opinion, which would help you in a possible dialogue. You could then, and after you had done all that we are proposing, sit at the negotiating table, but sit down with another dynamic, because you would have all this dynamic resulting from the consultation and dialogue with the other parties. You didn't. You could also, during this five-year period, have checked and studied the bad texts and suggest some modifications, using what 'COSCO' had not done to date, that is, it had not fulfilled the conditions it had to carry out under the Convention. In this context you should see the bad texts and suggest changes. Within this you could of course change and find the way to express the central municipality of Piraeus through the Board of Directors of the PPA. It is true that with the 2016 convention, in time, seeing and studying it, we would reasonably arrive here that we arrived today. That's not your outcome. But it is a bad result that you could negotiate, given the failure to complete the work on the 'COSCO' side. That's not what you did either. Instead, you chose not to use even the weapons you had in your patronage so that the investments could be made as quickly as possible, so that you could give time - five plus five years - to the policyholder. And, secondly, you did not use the criminal clauses and everything that that implies, which would put 'COSCO' in a real other function, to another dimension for the benefit of local society and the local economy and not just. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u487	Thank you, too, because you were consistent in time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Nektarios Santorinios for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr President. I would not even take the floor, because we have said it all and added nothing new, Minister. They continue to support their positions, not knowing that this actually delays investment and does not help it. What we are proposing to you in the implementation of the contract would bring into line the compulsory investments and give real solutions to the port. So the question 'what investments do we want?', we say that we want investments in rules, we want investments in cities, we want investments for the people, we want investments for small and medium-sized enterprises, and not investments where the counterparty continues to violate the rules, and the government will be given them. You said something about the master plan, Minister. You said you approved the master plan. The master plan didn't approve you. The master plan was approved in February 2019 with all mandatory investments. I have the decision here, and I will submit it to the Minutes. We had asked for some clarifications and some amendments so that non-compulsory investments could also be approved. Then, because the elections were approaching, you had told the PPA you would obviously approve what it wants. And that's why he brought excuses, "we can't now, we'll bring it soon." It's a classic PPA story. Immediately after the elections he filed the master plan. What was in it? The Problem 4 and the mall. The Minister celebrated that the master plan was submitted with additional investments. Fortunately, then, you had not been able to abolish the ESA and turn it into a government body, and the ESA did what it should, did not accept either Question 4 or the mall. You asked me a question, Minister. You said: 'For there to be a criminal clause, the fault of non-implementation of projects should be borne by the PPA. In the contract you brought in 2016, it is written in paragraph 16.5. Have you forgotten?’ That's what you asked me. Minister, did you read paragraph 16.5? Because if you read it and mislead Parliament, then there is a big problem. I will read it to you, because if you do not know what paragraph 16.5 says and you are dragged into this negotiation without knowing what it says, then really the only result you could bring is this contract. I'll read it to you to understand. Paragraph 16.5: ‘Priminal clauses shall not be considered for infringement - obviously - if the PPA is in a position to demonstrate that the infringement in question has taken place exclusively or essentially as a direct consequence of an event of force majeure or other than the control of PPA’. Was it force majeure, Minister? Honestly, is that how you negotiated? That is why you have brought the results that you have unfortunately brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. We are closing the seconds of the rapporteurs and of special speakers with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Yoyakas, who, in his prology, spoke exactly in his time, fifteen minutes and eleven seconds, as the President-in-Office noted. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u490	Minister, first I would like to thank you once again for your own initiative and with great effort you came to Igoumenitsa two and three and four times for a problem that concerned the local society, the Municipality of Igoumenitsa, the Municipality of Philiattes and all the local society, which was designed in the government of SYRIZA, with people placed by your own government in the administration of the Port Authority Igoumenitsa. The reactions, the objections, the wishes of the people of Igoumenitsa and all the inhabitants of Thesprotia were certain parts that were under concession to come out of the concession. The Minister, Mr Placiotakis, has listened very carefully, as did Mr Stagioras, and after the committee responsible, they were really consistent on the dates they set until the end of August. These parts, whether they were the parking lot in the port of Igoumenitsa, the bank seats in Syvota, Plataria, Sayyada, the fishing shelter in Sayyada, were all excluded from the contract to be concluded. We are therefore waiting for the binding offers made by the interested parties for a port which is really very important and with great investment interest to express their interest through the competitive process. It is indeed Mr Plakkatakis who has helped to get rid of and satisfy the local society. Once again, Mr Plakatakis, thank you very sincerely for the help you have given us. As far as the terrestrial zone is concerned, Igoumenitsa is one of the things that is self-evident. Our friends and colleagues are coming, Mr Katsis from Thesprotia Law, to question and say that the Minister has not implemented it. In order to do this, which will take place when the concession to the investor takes place, all the procedures for the legitimisation of the land segments will have been completed, which had been delayed over time and over the period and will be completed, so that by the concession agreement at the same time the land area will be assigned to the Municipality of Igoumenitsa. So I want us to be honest and realistic. Do we want investments to be made? Do we want to use our ports? Do we want to take a step further, so that our place can obtain what it needs to obtain? Leaving the port of Igoumenitsa to go to the bill we had for discussion, the convention on the three days that we discussed in committees and in plenary session. I listened carefully to the views of the opposition colleagues and you will allow me to make some comments following my initial position. First of all, we have heard these days arguments that have nothing to do with the subject of the bill, but they refer to the granting of the majority share package of the PPA as such. We have reached the point where SYRIZA's dear rapporteur says that the privatisation of the PPA was wrong and, to gold the pill of repentance, he said that in Civic Antipolitics they believe ports should not be granted as a whole. Whether you disagree with the concession or the way it was made, it is a fait accompli of seven years, which was even ratified by Parliament with a large cross-party majority. So what's the debate on this? It was also said that the extension was a gift to the PPA and the investor. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not. For the PPA to return to competitiveness, as Mr Santorinios said, it is necessary to extend the necessary investment, because their non-completion will affect the competitiveness of the port of Piraeus. Or is it a gift that it is clearly defined what may be a cause of delay rather than allowing it to be called into question and interpreted differently from each other? One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. The activation of the clauses and referral to arbitration has clearly increased risk to the Greek State in relation to the compromise solution, in which there are more insurance margins and more incentives to complete compulsory investments in time. How do you anticipate that the rulings of the Arbitration Court would be justified by the Greek State and would be in the public interest? How do you discount the collection of the criminal clauses, even matching them with their collapse? Have you calculated the cost of the investment freeze while the court dispute lasted? Have you considered the multiple costs for our country's international relations and international image? Even if we take the calculation of the amount of clauses made by some colleagues, who are not correct, even if we accept that the concession is lost for the next decade, which is also not the case, any loss which is incompatible with the economic, political, diplomatic and communication costs of stopping the investment. Do you think you've put these on the scale, gentlemen of the counterpopulation? Are you taking off your ideological ynati against privatization in general, or do you think you will convince the citizens with easy and magical solutions? I'm closing up with one last comment. The search for responsibility for who, although responsible for the delays, does not help this debate, because inevitably leads to the same path as I mentioned before, that of conflict, questioning, uncertainty, with all the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. And we close the full-day meeting with the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Plackotakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with the unacceptable and unworthy references and designations that have been heard just now in Parliament by SYRIZA Members. The debate is serious and funny. Ladies and gentlemen, from this whole debate, which has dealt with us all day and everyone has had the opportunity to express their views, very clear conclusions have been drawn. The Government has demonstrated with evidence that the amendment of the contract ensures the implementation of the strategic investment in the port of Piraeus, as well as the interests of the Greek State. That is precisely why we did not choose the path of arbitration, of the court dispute proposed by the opposition, because we would have exactly the opposite effect. A referee and a court dispute have extremely dubious effect. Each side will put forward its own claims, as is done in any such procedure. We are not entering the crisis process, we are not, as you have tried, in our power. The most important thing, however, is that the judicial dispute would automatically mean stopping investment with enormous damage to users, operators, the local society, for which you are so much tired, with enormous damage to Greece's relations with a powerful third country, with enormous damage to the investment climate, with enormous damage to the Greek economy, after all. The amendment of the contract, under the terms and safeguards accompanying it, speeds up the development of the investment programme, strengthens control by the independent engineer, gives the right to veto in the WIDD, ensures the return of 16% of the shares if the investments are not completed at 98%. At the same time, the amendment to the contract ensures the benefits for the Greek economy and for the local society and gives a strong signal - that is what we are interested in, a strong message - to investors that Greece is dealing with them fairly and responsibly. Now I will not dwell any more on SYRIZA's positions and objections. The answers have been given and are apostometic. Besides, we heard it officially. SYRIZA doesn't want the investment in the port of Piraeus. He doesn't want investment in our ports. It is once again trying to strengthen the excellent investment climate that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has managed to shape over the last two years. Fortunately, investors are aware of what the citizens also know, that the government operates responsibly, and that is why it enjoys citizens' confidence, and of course they know that SYRIZA and the next elections will be opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, investment in the port of Piraeus is going on, an investment of key importance for the city, the local society, the national economy and the geostrategic position of our country in the wider region. Finally, Mr President, Amendment No 1077, and Amendment No 1085 are not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u493	Minister, will you respond to the memorandum from the President of the RAL? You are also ignoring the opposition and the President of the RAL!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u494	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is adjourned: “Following an amendment agreement from 24.6.2016 Concession Convention entitled “Concess of Concession on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus” between the Greek State and the “ORGANISM LIDEOS LIBOS S.A.”. Applications have been submitted for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group as well as by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Members of his party, which will take place tomorrow, Thursday, September 30, 2020, at 12.00 at noon, before discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-29-S1-commons.u495	With the consent of the House, 20.52' is the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, 30 September 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) a special event of the Greek Parliament in honor of the Greek Olympians at the Olympic Games in Tokyo 2020; and (b) legislative work, 1) a vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy? ‘Following an amendment agreement of 24.6.2016 to the Concession Convention entitled “Concession Agreement on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus” between the Greek State and the “ORGANISM LIMITOS S.A.”." and 2) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, "Kippeli" programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, infants and children's stations, provisions to promote the assumption and adoption, "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons" and other provisions, in accordance with the additional agenda to be distributed.
