ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Under No 7080 of 18-10-2021, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions to be debated. The first question will be discussed under No 45/8-10-2021 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Recommendation of the Technical Council of the Ministry of Education". The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Zoe (Zetta) Makri will answer. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think there is any question that has been raised by so many parliamentary interventions in this Chamber, such as the one which, Madam Minister, we will be discussing this afternoon. Since 2005 the old Court of First Instance of Sparta, a 19th century building from the first buildings of the modern Greek state in around 1837, has been transferred to the Ministry of Education to house - by decision of 2005 - the General Archives of the State of Laconia. Since then there has been a Cylon, a marathon of bureaucratic processes, so that we come today, sixteen years later, and I ask you, the political leadership, to present this timely question, in order to find out what is to come for a flagship building in Sparta city, a building that, as you will see, of course, is covered by the mustaches now, this shame which is in place - houses - and the memory of the city, but we also hope to house the General Archives of the State. While we had stayed, I would say, happy or ready with the publication of the Presidential Decree amending the tariff plan, which we were asking a year ago, suddenly in my recent question, Minister Kerameau answered me "you know, all right, but a technical board must be set up" - then we learned about it - "the Ministry of Education, which will give an opinion on the percentages of updates of the various studies that must be available, as he says here, and on the estimated fees". There, then, when we went to rejoice, we saw the situation as it progresses. We have been informed a year later that this Council has not been set up, Minister, and that is why a few days ago I retabled this timely question, in which I am actually asking for one particular thing, namely, that this technical board of the Ministry of Education should be set up, or that it will give its opinion on these two issues, which are the first stage in the others to follow which are four to five. I'll tell you later. The well-known issue of the bridge of Arta was solved, Mr President, by the sacrifice of his wife as a pioneer. So I hope, Minister - you know how much I appreciate you, I do not tell you personally - to find some way of not sacrificing any Minister or any spouse first, but to find a solution so that we can overcome something that our fellow citizens in Sparta are asking us and we do not have what to answer them. I believe there is also the political will on the part of this government, which we support with our vote and the mood and planning to solve the problem so that work will gradually begin in this building for the city. I look forward to your answer with interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Davaki. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start by saying to my colleague that, thanks to his information and his own initiatives, the Council has been set up, but you will allow me, Mr Colleague, to make a historical regression, and to tell you in my second language what exactly the steps will be taken, as you have said. As I said in answer to your topical question, which you mentioned very glaringly has troubled your region, the old Court of First Instance of Sparta is located in the centre of the city and the building of Sparta Justice was originally foreseen there. This building - you said it, I repeat - is one of the oldest historical Ottoman buildings that are saved in Sparta and Greece and was granted indefinitely by the State Department of Education and Religious Affairs in the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and was decided there to house the General Archives of the State of Laconia. The necessary prerequisite was the restoration of the building. Thus a public tender was approved and made public, which presented a study scheme for the implementation and tendering studies for the restoration work of the preserved building of the old Sparta Court of First Instance and its adaptation to the housing of the General Archives of the State of Laconia and the relevant contract of the study was signed on 9-3-2010. This study was approved. You know them very well, but you will allow me to mention them for those who are listening to us and for those who are interested in your county. It was approved by the Department of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Western Greece and by our Ministry of Culture as well as by our Ministry under its supervision - i.e. the service he mentioned - and the address of the technical services of our Ministry. After completion of the construction was submitted by our Ministry, in February 2012, the dossier in the relevant Town Plan of the Municipality of Sparta for the restoration of the building of the old Sparta Court of First Instance and its adaptation to the housing of the General Archives of the State in Laconia Prefecture. In order to issue a building permit, Sparta's rhetoric project should first be modified and the special use of land by a court in General Archives of the State changed, and this change required the issue of a presidential decree. Our Ministry's Technical Services Department submitted a request to amend the approved orbital plan Sparta and then amended it on 3-6-2020 and the relevant presidential decree was published on 11-5-2020. Following the adoption of the Presidential Decree and the amendment of the plan, the Building Agency of the Municipality of Sparta sent the dossier back to our Ministry's Technical Services Directorate to update the study and the tender procedures from our Technical Services Directorate. The update of the study and the tender documentation is necessary, because this is provided for by the public procurement legislation of Law 4412/2016 of the firefighting regulation on buildings of the old invoicing and all the specifications required for the study. The technical board shall be consulted in order to update the study. To avoid eating more time, I will tell you in detail and therefore repeating that it has been set up to reassure the very legitimate concerns and interest you have in this matter. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u6	I am pleased to hear that the technical board has recently been set up, which will be the beginning and updating of the two specific issues that we are discussing. It's very nice the historical list you've made. It demonstrates what I said in my first speech, that the process has been extremely timely since 2005 on Ms. Giannaku's government until today can be disembodied, freeed from various bureaucratic clamps in this building in order to build and house the General Archives of the State. And that alone must concern us and make us run faster so that we do not come back after a couple of years to ask again when the work will begin. There is a stage, then, that has been created and I think that the timely question about the setting-up of this technical board has also contributed. I believe that we should - and I would ask you to - consider this to the political leadership as a priority. There are other topics that I am hearing, about the percentage that the technical board will consider, which has been working on for some time or which has not been set up. So, this is now on the occasion of the question I am asking, as a matter of priority, the case of the old Court of First Instance - General Archives of the State, so that they will slowly follow the next steps that are: to give an opinion on this technical board, the notice of the design contest to update the study and the tender documents, to submit the study for approval to the Service of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Western Greece, and then for approval by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs - we still have a road, but if there is a political will I think we can overcome it - and to resubmit the dossier for the construction of the Municipality of Sparta. After this licence has been issued, a tender will be made for the appointment of a contractor by the technical department of the Technical Services Directorate. Today, one year later, we are in the first step. I am pleased to hear what the Minister, Ms. Makary, has said, that this technical board has been set up. The honourable Member is currently asking the House to look into the issue we are debating as a priority, because it has been a long time ago. I don't know the other issues that he's going to deal with if they've got 15-year-old loose ends. So, on the basis of the unfinishedness to make a little faster, so that we can move to the other four stages, see there in Sparta something from the Ministry of Education that will cheer us up, and you can also visit and see that the General Archives of the State are in a sensitive and very proper and civilized area to be hosted. I believe that the priority now of the technical board that I am once again aware that an examination of this issue has been recommended will make us win the lost time, which is also due to the memory of the city and the sensitivity of the Spartans and all those who compose a historical past. As you will know, Volos, I think your region, and Sparta has many neoclassical buildings that belong to individuals. If the Greek state's behaviour towards public buildings is such a long time ago, imagine what message we are going through to the private person in order to safeguard, respect his own property that is a neoclassical building, which most of them with the provisions on preparedness leave them and fall. I'm pleased with your answer. Please warmly for speeding up procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to say to my colleague, who has commanded a very important and crucial ministry, that at times some delays are not necessarily due to the indifference of the ministers or the State Secretarys but also to other factors. That is why you will allow me to give you a brief record, so that we can reach out to what you have said in the next steps. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest technical board of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs took place on 25 to 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the relevant joint decision of the Ministers for the Presidency of the Government and National Education and Religious Affairs of the 1985 Council, the Council will have a two-year term of office, which shall be until 25 April 2021. According to this joint decision, the establishment would include among other things as a regular member the Head of the Educational Design Application Directorate, which was subsequently renamed to the Technical Services Department of our Ministry. Unfortunately, there were problems of an administrative type in the setting-up and convening of the technical board after the Head of Department of Technical Services was initially transferred to the Technical Services Directorate and subsequently in December 2019, the Deputy Head of this Management resigned from his duties and the second in the order appointed on 5-2021, the Deputy Director, finally failed to accept the post. In these circumstances, therefore, there was difficulty in setting up the technical board of the PPP. For this reason, and in order to speed up the procedures, the relevant dossier was selected to be transmitted on 6-10-2021 for examination and opinion by the Public Works Council and the Department responsible for the case of Projects or Studies of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The technical board of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport met on 14-10-2021. The meeting was invited to the Department's Technical Services Directorate. Additional technical explanations were requested from the Directorate for Technical Services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and it was decided at the next meeting of the Technical Council of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which will take place in the next few days, to review the matter and the steps are what you said, so as not to tire up the procedure, the tender notice, preparation of the update of the study, etc. What I can commit in public to transporting it to the people concerned is speed. I cannot promise that it will be prioritised, but I promise you that the next steps will be dealt with more quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u9	Did you say the next meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u10	The next meeting, not the next one. Thank you very much for the cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u11	Thank you very much, too. Congressman Constantine Scandalides is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad, namely in Germany from 18 to 23 October 2021 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Culture and Sport, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Health, Tourism and the Deputy Minister of Finance have tabled a draft law on 15-10-2021: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding of Cultural Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates". The Ministers for Culture and Sport, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 15-10-2021: "Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. The second question will be discussed with number 38/11-10-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros (Alexis) Religiousness to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The shrinking of school units degrades educational work in the schools of Messinia". And in this timely question will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education, Mrs McCrey. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin my position by expressing my sympathy to the Member and former Minister, Mr Bakoyannis, who today had the courage to make the health problem public. I wish you a quick recovery. I'm sure everything will be fine. I now come to the question, Mr President. Minister, the decision of your Ministry's leadership that led to the downgrading of school units and divisions in primary and secondary education throughout the country has caused enormous disruption in the educational community primarily to the students themselves. A month after the start of the new school year, the consequences of this decision are now visible to everyone and they come to be added to the problems that the coronary pandemic continues to create and the new outbreak which, unfortunately, we have in our country lately. Once again, Minister, there are conditions of aggregation of pupils and teachers, resulting in the dispersion of the disease in school units and the risk of school closure again. In this case, of course, the teaching work again as it was last year will be carried out through teleworking with the well-known problems of malfunctioning. I will talk about my region that I can best understand the situation, compared with the rest of Greece, although I have the impression that in the rest of Greece there is a similar situation. This decision, therefore, in Messinia, has caused a storm of reactions in the educational community, as the sudden move from the primary education department of the county few days before the start of the school year led to the deterioration of a number of school units in the region. To talk about this, the municipal schools of our prefecture in Devilisi, Chora, Koroni, Campos, Doriorio, Meropi and Finikouda are being subjugated and shrinked. A lot of schools, Minister. And I must tell you that this has led to an extensive indignation of the parents' associations and also of resolutions - demonstrations by the Peloponnese Regional Council itself, Echelia and Pylos Nestors, as well as many mass actors in these regions. I am tabling these resolutions of the municipal councils and bodies of the region in the Minutes, precisely to demonstrate the widespread indignation and concern in these areas because of this decision. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the Minutes the abovementioned resolutions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] I should also like to stress that the school units of the Coron and the Devil have been involved in fire-fighting areas since August last year. So they were tested by the fires. They are now being tested in these difficult circumstances and in these decisions. Last item, Minister, which I think needs to be taken into account by all of us and, above all, by the political leadership of the Ministry of Education, is this. We keep talking about the need for rural support. We are talking about the need to support the region. We are talking about remote areas in our country for remote municipalities which are disadvantaged in relation to large urban centres. I think we have all been discussing this for too many years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is not possible, Minister, in these difficult conditions of pandemic instead of these people, to support even more and to create conditions of decent living and quality of life for the inhabitants, with these decisions on the degradation of the schools in the region, unfortunately, I would say that I would say that, in fact, internal migration and their movement into towns in urban areas and on the further desertification of our countryside, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u14	Please complete. You've reached four minutes. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u15	On the basis of this data, on the basis of all these developments, I ask you a very clear and very straightforward question. Do you intend to review your Ministry's decision to close departments and merging school units in the midst of this pandemic crisis and even in firefighting areas? My question is very specific, Minister. I would also like a very specific answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u16	I would ask that we keep the time. There are twenty-fifths of topical questions. So if the prototypes instead of two go five minutes, you realize that we will have a big problem. We're gonna be late for this. It's okay. You'll be short in dentistry. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Haritsis for the kind words he has said about Mrs Bakoyannis. Thank you as a member of the New Democracy. I think I can assure you publicly because I contacted her that she has an excellent morality. She's determined to follow the doctors' instructions and give this battle. He's gonna win it. We're all sure and we wish her so. As far as your question is concerned, school changes take place as you know each year and apply to the next one. For changes in primary and secondary schools a circular setting out the timetable for submission of the necessary supporting documents by the relevant primary and secondary departments and regional directorates shall be issued each year. For the changes in the school year 2021-2022 a circular was published on 9-1-2020 on the theme ‘Study changes in primary and secondary school units for the 2021-2022 school year’, which describes the process. A joint ministerial decision was adopted on the subject ‘Creating, abolishing, merging, undermining and promotion of municipal schools and nursery schools 2021-2022’. As they inform me in writing of service factors, the schools you refer to in your question are not subject to change. The attempted rationalisation in the organisation of the school units in question, beyond the capacity for pupils, was dictated by educational and teaching reasons. Modern teaching, without overlooking and undervaluing the binary relationship of a teacher and student, recognizes the dynamic role of the school team and tries to maximise the school's learning results so that students do not view teaching as a process of offering and receiving information but as an active process of building knowledge that involves them actively and interactively. These principles are implemented more effectively through the framework of small groups with at least four pupils, where, through cooperation, complementation and confrontation, the group seek solutions to the problems it is studying. This cannot function in specific school units with three, five or seven pupils per class. Group and collaborative teaching leads directly to the improvement of schooling and social behavior which are both very important. The detailed curriculum programmes emphasise the cooperation of students in small groups and estimate that collaborative learning is a key methodological approach to the achievement of the teaching objectives. With regard to firefighting schools, Koroni has not been declared firefighting, but this does not affect the organicity or the learning process for the municipal school of the Devil. It is the school population that will determine the course of these school units as well as of all school units, which, unfortunately, in small local communities does not help to operate exemplary municipal schools. The proposed changes in the organisationality of the above school units do not create any inflationary division and there are no grounds for concern due to a pandemic. I shall mention some specific points, Mr President, in my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you really used wishfulness, I'd say, words in your answer. You spoke of streamlining, of pedagogical reasons - I have noted here - you spoke of small groups. But these have nothing, unfortunately, to do with reality. We are talking here about a country that operates under pandemic conditions, which is in a new outburst, we are talking about an educational system that already last year worked not on its limits but beyond its limits, and you are coming here this year, which was supposed to be the time to prepare the whole system properly so that we can have better conditions for students, better conditions for teachers and things get worse. Because here we are talking about schools which, from sixties, become five-four and five-four, become four-four. That's what's happening right now. So we have more students per class even than last year, which was also a very difficult pandemic year. And I honestly wonder how these moves achieve what you said, rationalization. Is that streamlining? Conspiring more children in these conditions in one class is rationalization in today's conditions? And let me say this as you spoke of the student population. Indeed, the disciple population - especially in the province and regional municipalities - is declining, but, you know, the student population is not a static size, our own decisions are the decisions of the political leadership that lead to further shrinkage. Because a family who realizes that the future of the school in its area is a shrinking, is a reduction in the number of money, is most students per department, it is natural and next to consider moving to a larger urban center. So, in other words, you come with this decision and make it even more difficult for local communities. Hence the reactions I referred to before, the reactions from the regional council, the reactions from the municipal councils, the reactions from the mass actors in the region. Allow me, Minister, these are not opposition to them, nor are they party to them. Alas. They are reactions to a society which sees that in conditions of pandemic with everything that has been under way in the past eighteen months, it has been left to the mercy of the pandemic rather than to be supported even more now that it has a great need. What I understand from your answer is that, unfortunately, you are already negative in reviewing this decision. I would remind you that this decision - because you spoke about the CSCE and so on. - He got out of Messinia Primary Department at the end of August. I then asked a simple question which, unfortunately, was never answered by the Ministry. That is why I have come back with the timely question today. It is, in fact, a sign of total disrespect to these families, to these villages, to these local communities, to the children themselves, to our students and teachers, to this attitude of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u20	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u22	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is in no way a lack of respect for students, parents and all who are interested even in colleagues, such as you who are asking. No way. But because you were led by the top ministers of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, I think we can start with the assumption and agreement that the laws should apply especially when they are in force as early as 2006. Thus, the joint ministerial decision adopted in 2006 says that schools with thirty - one to forty - five students operate as three - one, with forty - six to a hundred students as five - and with a hundred twenty - six to a hundred fifty students as signatories. For the functionality of school units, we inform that the number of departments of a school depends on the number of pupils and pupils. In accordance with Article 50(3) of Law 4692/20 in primary school units, the maximum number of pupils per part is twenty-five. In all the schools, I tell you here - we do not exceed that. From a seven-seven-seven-seven-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-st-seventh-s, and in accordance with Article 50(4) of the same law, where it is not possible to form parts as a further-st-sub-sub-sub-sub-st-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-second-sub-sub-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st If there is no room available, the head of the school unit sends a table with the names of the students residing on the school district of the municipal school with the school districts of neighbouring primary schools to the director of primary school, who distributes the pupils from the table to the neighbouring municipal schools, of course taking into account the distance of schools from the student's address, as declared. Where there are siblings or brothers or sisters in the same kindergarten or municipality, they shall be excluded from this process and the director of primary education shall inform the parents and guardians of the schools of registration. The procedure shall be completed by 10 June each year. The schools mentioned in your question, Mr. Colleague, have the following potential: The Devil's school has fifty-six students in grade one, six in grade two, four in the third, eight in the fourth, nine in the fourth, fourteen in the fourth and fifteen in the fourth. It'll work as a five-seater. At the school of the Doriot, the students are forty-one, in the first six, in the second four, in the third seven, in the fourth seven, in the fourth grade nine, in the fourth grade eight and will act as four-seater. At Phoenix school there are fourteen students, in the first three, in the second three, in the third three, in the fourth two and in the fourth three students as a monopoly. The students at Kambu school are forty-four, four in the first, nine in the second, eleven in the third, six in the fourth, seven in the fourth, seven in the fourth as the fifth. At the school of Koronis there are fifty-five students, five in the first, nine in the second, six in the third, ten in the fourth, twelve in the fourth, thirteen in the fourth as the fifth. At the school of Meropis there are forty-six students, three in the first, nine in the third, nine in the fourth grade, seven in the fourth grade, eleven in the fourth and seven in the fourth grade, and will act as four-story and finally in the 2nd School of Chora are fifty-six students, ten in the third grade, 11 in the third grade, seven in the fourth grade, seven in the fourth grade, eleven in the fourth grade and will act as five-story. And it can be seen - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that in all cases the number of students is far from enough than the ceiling, as laid down in the joint ministerial decision of 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. The next question to be discussed is the fourth, with number 57/11-10-2021, a topical question from the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct needs for school nurses". This timely question will also be answered by Mrs Zetta Makri, State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. We have already been in the second month since the beginning of the school year and have remained uncovered, i.e. there are vacant posts in school nurses even after the second stage of recruitment. Based on this development, the concern of parents, guardians, who suffer from chronic diseases, such as type 1 diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, allergies and other diseases, is justified, since most of these children remain in their own schools, without attendance, but also with all the risks that this entails for their own lives. The lack of school nurses, therefore, puts children's lives at risk, but adding additional difficulties to families who are forced to pay for support, i.e. medical care in practice, who are exhausted running from work at school and from school to work or who leave their jobs, lose their jobs in order to be close to school and next to their child so as to interfere with health issues. The second concerns the procedure for approving applications, which is a time-consuming process for the approval of a school nurse. We believe that it is unscientific too, since, in addition to the medical opinion, authorizations are needed from the Directorates of Education. Here, too, we are asking what scientific criterion this is. This means that approvals, which are intended to be delayed dramatically by the number of recruitments and not by the actual number of children in need of such support, should be delayed, while consultation and approvals should be sought in diseases which, after all, are not healable. Diabetes type 1 diabetes is not curable. Every year, therefore, all the supporting documents and authorisations to be submitted by the parents are requested. Similarly unscientific and life-threatening children suffering from chronic illnesses are the practice to be placed school nurses in a school unit some days a week and to use the rest of the days in some other school units. Therefore, Mr President, the questions to the Minister are firstly, whether the demands for the placement of school nurses will now be approved without delay, and, of course, whether the necessary recruitment will take place, and secondly, whether there will be a permanent staff of school nurses - this is also a necessity that emerges through this whole process, not only now, but also from the outset - with a permanent fixed employment relationship in a school unit, which of course will be linked to organised primary health care, in the primary health system, which is of course also fully responsible for meeting these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Last week in this Chamber I answered a relevant question and I would like to say to the President that the sensitivity of the New Democracy and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis to the issues of pupils and disabilities and special educational needs has been demonstrated not in the words, but in practice with the four and a half thousand appointments to special education in the school year 2020-2021, which is the first one in educational time. As part of the approach to the education of pupils and pupils with disabilities and special needs, we also incorporate education, specialized educational support from a school nurse. The approvals for the recruitment of alternates of this sector are issued by the competent special treatment department of our Ministry throughout the year. By October 4, 2021, a total of two thousand eighteen substitutes for the IP25, i.e. school nurses with 79% coverage, have been recruited. And it should be stressed that in the first phase of recruitment there were ninety-two additional gaps in the school nurses sector for which, Mr President, no candidates were found. Similarly, in the second uptake phase, there were thirty-five gaps for recruitment of school nurses, where no candidates were found. In order to address this problem on Monday, October 11, 2021 by a majority in the House, our Ministry's amendment was passed, which allows the recruitment of temporary substitutes, general education teachers included in the AACS rating table of IP8702 in nursing, since the operational needs of primary and secondary schools in school nurses in the IP25 sector cannot be covered by the members listed in Table C1 of the AACS of the industry concerned, as is our case now. The process of vacancies in primary and secondary schools is also redefined. This process also extends after 11 October of each school year and the CEDEFOP by means of a special invitation, recruitment if there is a failure to meet the operational needs of either the refusal to take up a service - because we are dealing with this - or the resignation of trainers or, finally, the insufficient number of candidates. For the locations of the resigned, it is noted that each training department is responsible for the hierarchy of its needs, as well as for determining the number of gaps, as referred to in the relevant regulatory decision for the alternates. Mr President, the purpose of our Ministry is to fill all the declared and confirmed by the regional directorates for training operational gaps with permanent appointments and the recruitment of assistant teachers. Where appropriate, however, there are administrative, financial constraints, for example, limited financial appropriations per region, which are also an additional obstacle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u28	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I listened to the Minister with care. I am also aware of the amendment to which you have referred. Look, the government must give a solution immediately. I will testify in the Minutes, expressing in these documents the agony of a mother who has a child with type 1 diabetes who has lost her job precisely because she had to be in the bars or in the school to help her child, who has an insulin pump, and who has an insulin pump that can make you either hyperglycaemia or hypoglycaemia, depending on the activity of the child. So this mother is forced to be in the school unit, so that when she needs to attend, to assist, to intervene for her child. Even one chance, Minister, must be hospitalized now, yesterday we would say. But, as we put to the second question, it is precisely the total lack of a nurse, but also of a health establishment, a medical establishment, as you say, in every school unit today on the basis of the possibilities of our country, based on scientific, technical and technical equipment, based on qualified staff, nursery, medicine, health care, in this case, in order to meet these needs and on a permanent basis. Because you're saying you're substitutes, but I'm sorry, the other guy's not going for a deputy, because he's got a starting date and an end date. It is likely that this is a basic criterion. Is the presence of a health station either necessary or not - or I ask you directly - a doctorate with the necessary skilled staff responsible for the follow-up of schoolchildren, the assessment of their health, the provision of corresponding first aids, the promotion of the health of pupils? Well, it's a lot of part. And, of course, beyond this structure which should have a stable presence, this structure should be interconnected with the region's health centre in order to cover medical, nursing, that is, further, and periodic, that is, to carry out periodic checks on children in the context of prevention. For example, dental care or monitoring of chronic events, children suffering from diabetes mellitus or other diseases, such as epilepsy, heart disease, etc. Well, there's a few diseases. Is that a fair request or not? They put it in the parents' associations, the teachers show it, of course, but also the working people's movement in general. We don't have any delusions. You said that in your prototype too. The fact that these issues have not been implemented and are not being implemented is because the policy over time of all governments, irrespective of any individual management recipes, within this system objectively does not have a priority for increased and ever-enlarged people's needs and health, and in this regard, because they are costs - you said - since priority for the state is the non-lural budget and the burden of the state budget in order to support competitiveness and ensure the profits of business groups. It is precisely within this and on this side of this subject that we are raising today with the timely question, that the contradiction of this system of capitalism arises. In other words, while there are huge possibilities of science, technology, modern methods, labour productivity has reached its peaks and the wealth produced in our country is unthinkable, corresponding to the existence of a relatively large number of scientists in all sectors and specialities, at the same time increasing and increasing the distance to the uninterrupted use of all these possibilities globally by our people. These possibilities and needs of the people are the innovative and realistic one today. It's not a question of sensitivity, it's a matter of politics. Everyone is sensitive, it's about what policies you're practicing. And in order to do this, we - and this is what we are saying and addressing them - are the parents, the teachers on this issue, which is raised by the current question, but also by the whole of the issues that concern people's health, our people to organise, strengthen their struggle and their claims to satisfy their modern and enlarged health needs, in this regard, and the issues of school housing. In fact, it needs to be mixed with the great guilty parties about the current situation, that is, the power of capital and the governments that serve it with their policies. [[At this point, F Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Of course, we have different political starting points from one side to another, Mr President. However, this does not prevent us from agreeing that a child really needs to be in need of this is a matter that needs to mobilise us and raise awareness of us. However, I believe that this general reference to the analgesia of our Ministry does not seem to me to be a reality especially after my answer to my prototype, where I have demonstrated the difficulties that are not caused by analgesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u32	I didn't talk about analgesia. If you want me to complement political analgesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u33	I've developed it to you in protology, you've restrained it. But I also told you about the inability to find people to offer in this position, but not to take more time now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u34	You're a government, find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u35	I heard you for five minutes, and your time was three. I didn't interrupt you. Now you're rocking my time, and I heard you without interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u36	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u37	We are therefore generally talking about hearing and informing those interested in parliamentary scrutiny that the recruitment of alternate members of special educational staff and special assistant staff is based on the declared operational gaps. And all of this is approved by the Minister's act to fill operational gaps by industry, specialty, educational structure and level of education. With regard to the appropriations for recruitment of deputies and orthodox teachers of primary and secondary education under a fixed-term private law contract for the school year '21-22 are available from the resources of the co-financed section of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs's Public Investment Program. The use of resources from the co-financed section of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the payment of both temporary substitutes for primary, secondary and special staff and special assistant staff to be recruited as part of the action to address the negative consequences of the emergence and dispersion of COVID -19 is also allowed. In addition to this for the current school year to meet the needs of school units and special education and training structures, there are credits available from the national strategic reference framework. For the school year '21-22, our Ministry, aiming at the staff of school units and special education facilities for the fullest possible coverage of the needs of the school population, has now carried out two phases of recruitment of five thousand seventy-sevenths in total of seven alternate members of special education and special assistant staff for all the programmes and structures in which they can be employed in the first phase from 26-8-21. After gathering operational gaps to substitutes for training and auxiliary staff from the competent decentralised agencies, our Ministry, after gathering the operational gaps to substitute staff from the competent decentralised agencies, proceeded with the allocation in accordance with the existing appropriations for the NRP programmes for the recruitment of the first and second phases, as it is appropriate to maintain a number of appropriations for the rest of the school year. In order to meet the needs of ICUs twenty-fifths of school nurses, the Ministry carried out a hundred and seventy-two recruitments for the special education and training units of which all are employed according to the data provided by the Ministry of Education, and a thousand three recruitments for the specialized educational support financed by the two ESDP, RDP and Sector programmes. As a result, during this period, and given that thirty-six alternates and alternates did not take up a service, there are a thousand per cent employed in seventy-seven IP25 active in schools in the country from the two above programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the tenth under the number 65/11-10-2021 topical question of the second question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Great needs in school rooms - Support for children of families affected by the earthquake of 27 September in Heraklion Crete". And in this timely question will the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Zetta Macrey, answer. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, as you know, we have had a catastrophic earthquake following, of course, a series of seismic vibrations that took place this summer in the area of the Municipality of Minoa Pediadas, but not just there in the wider region and in other municipalities. The schools in the municipality of Minoa Pedada, which were hit, are not working. Today the first and second grades began in the sewed rooms that were placed on two shifts, of course, since only twenty - two rooms of over eighty have been set up so far. Arkalochori High School, Arkalochori High School, Special School, High School and Kastelion High School do not work and we do not know until they work with the current situation. The questions are, therefore, three specific ones which I would like to see if we can answer today in order to inform the citizens. The first is whether students from the region because of the economic weakness of their parents, their families will have a moleculosis, a priority for entry into student centres? The second concerns the process of transcription, if they request their relocation to closer schools in the home area, which will be facilitated in this way. And the third question is that the students of the Third High School and of the Occupational High School have already lost, outside the general important part of the course, and it is estimated that the smooth operation will not be restored very soon - just before Christmas they estimate that this will be done - if they receive a special moleculation for their introduction into higher education, as has been done by you in similar cases in previous earthquakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u40	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a brief prototype, Mr President. You'll give me the time I won't take in my denture so I won't interrupt. I would therefore say to my fellow Member that the role of our Ministry for School Housing is final, we define the place specifications in terms of species, number and size, and these standards are reflected in the veterinary programme. Following recommendations from the municipalities, a ceremonial programme is drawn up by the Department of Technical Services of our Ministry, which is implemented by the company "Building Infrastructures S.A.", which is supervised by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The municipalities have the responsibility of maintaining, repairing, improving existing teaching courses and building new school units. As part of this responsibility, the company "Building Infrastructures S.A.", the CBYP, after the earthquake of 27-9-21, carried out primary post-graduate checks in all school buildings and I will present them to you, as I said at the beginning, in my dentistry. For those school buildings, it was considered that they are not safe and needing smaller or larger scale repairs immediately and where distance learning was possible and in addition prefabricated school rooms were also sought for their reopening. In your second question, the student's transfer to the HEIs for the academic year '21-22 will be effected in accordance with the provisions of Articles 72 to 81 of Law 4692/20, as specified in the relevant Ministerial Decision. The law stipulates in detail the exceptional submission of applications for registrarisation of students throughout the academic year solely for serious and substantiated cases or contingent cases of emergencies. Such applications shall be examined by a five-member committee set up by a decision of the Minister. It is true that at the moment, if you ask us and concern us, the needs are recorded and they are being examined by the competent departments of our Ministry in order to make this decision, if necessary, within the next period. With regard to the housing and feeding of poor undergraduate, postgraduate and candidate doctoral students, the state takes measures either in the homes or through the provision of housing allowances, and the same applies to their feedingstuffs, but at present no decision has been taken on the relevant category. In the third question, which I have seen is not in your question, and which relates to their import premium, I would like to say that these decisions, Mr Colleague, are taken every year in September. So we will come back to this next year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u42	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to say the following. Of course, the general theme of economic and social life concerns us, but also education is very important. So it started with the operation of the 2nd Elementary on two shifts, but it still needs a lot of work to restore normal function. This means that both general high school and PAAL and high school and special primary school will be late to begin normal operation. Teleteaching may exist when we have homes. At the moment some four hundred families are either in tents, or in procats that started, either in hotels or in relative houses. You understand that tele-education can't work for these children. We therefore have a deficit from the beginning that comes to be added to the educational deficit which we have had and, more generally, a pandemic in the past two years. I would add that the issue of housing and feeding should be seen as a matter of priority immediately, because applications have been made in the dorms and they may have been rejected by family children who have lost their homes and shops. You need to see this now because it's an important matter. It was gratifying to answer the transcripts, but I would ask you to see the issue of moleculosis as well. Because it has already been in force and of course is being examined in September or before the results are published. But September is late. I do not know exactly the time limit for Damasi, Samos and the other regions. However, I would like you to tell me whether the general law in force generally covers this case and with your ministerial decision at the appropriate time if the students are to be covered. However, I would like to clarify: Is this about the students of the Third High School who are in the seismic area or whose families live in the seismic region? It is a detail, but it is very important for the three topics. You are right that in my initial question the question about moleculosis in the pan-Hellenics was not my question, but I will tell you about the Minutes in order to get a knowledge of a letter from the students of the Third High School that refers to this subject and emerged afterward. But I think because you had already made the decision on Damasi that it is an issue that you have and where you could answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, you have the right to ask anything, I did not say it as reproach, alas. Just because it is not my tertiary authority, let me not try to respond in detail to something. I would like to inform you in the next two hours not to say something that I may not know in depth. This decision is signed by the Minister himself and is the responsibility of Mr Syrigos. So give me this margin to be precise as well, since you are making me the honour of asking me a question that is really sensitive. I also told you in the protagonist that there is a coexistent responsibilities of the CFP, which disappears in relation to that of the ATOs, because of the responsibility directly provided for the local government agencies. But I am telling you in detail, because it matters, the findings of the engineers of the CBC a few hours after the seismic event of 27 September 2021 when, at the command of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, they went to the wider area of the Municipality of Pedada and carried out primary post-graduate checks in the buildings of the Ministry of Education, Health and Justice. Of the ninety-four TEMP control sheets that were sent to each municipality immediately after the autopsies with a rapid visual control result: A designation of A was considered appropriately a hundred four schools, i.e. schools which do not have any worthwhile damage and can be used. Appropriately fifty three schools, i.e. buildings with slight damage to the filling agency, i.e. small in scale and range of skeleton detached and which can be used and repaired in a school's non-functional time. It was considered inappropriate for twenty-three schools, i.e. buildings with extensive damage to the filling agency without any deviation from the vertical that can be used only after repair. Inappropriately seven schools with serious damage to the filling agency were considered to be inappropriate. And characterisation V were found to be inappropriate four schools, i.e. buildings with damage to the organism with possible implications for the general stability of the building. Of these elements are summed up by different designations of eighty-seven school units that require repairs for damages, which were either created by the earthquake event, either by incomplete maintenance or by failures in repairs from previous seismic events. On 4-10-2021 the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas submitted to the CBC a request to place houses for the use of school rooms in accordance with the needs arising after the completion of post-seismic checks. The company TSYP responded immediately to the relevant document and will provide: Twenty-two prefabricated rooms six by six metres and three WCs by means of the agreement - framework for the supply of prefabricated rooms for emergencies. The CBC has already launched procedures for the procurement and placement of additional forty-six-six-six-six-six-story teaching sessions, seven-seven-six-six-six-six-story WCs, ten-six-six-six-six-six-story WCs, and one-six-six-six-six-story WC MEPs and three-six-six-story WCs. We also know that a competition has been conducted and a contractor has been declared for these supplies. The procedure for the tendering and award of a project contract and damage restoration to four school units of the Municipality of Minos Pediadas following the catastrophic earthquake of 27 September 2021 for the 2nd Primary School of Arkalochori, the General School of Arkalochori, the 1st ESAL Arkalochoriou and the High School of Kastelion. Work is expected to begin next week. Perhaps at the moment we are talking, after the answer has been postponed, they may have already begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Next is the sixth question (No. 40/7-10-2021) by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Conferences of school departments in Western Athens, mid-fourth pandemic of COVID -19". And in this timely question will the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Makres, answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when I asked the question, it was thirteen the departments that merged in the middle of the school year. A month after school year children changed their classmates, changed teachers, changed their school buildings. It's thirteen parts now. It's over twenty-six. After schools in Aegaleo, Agia Varvara, you have added schools to Haidari, you have added schools all over western Athens and the numbers seem to be talking about a thousand schools across Greece. What exactly is the Ministry doing? While we are discussing that we should have classes of fifteen pupils, do you, in the middle of the fourth wave, increase in schools and make them almost thirty students? How do you protect the health of the students in this way? Have you seen the measures proposed by the World Health Organisation for schools in the middle of COVID? They speak of a measure of distance between each other and each other. You are now, instead of reducing the number of people, increasing them and breaking up the school year in the middle of the school year. I want you to tell us, Minister, do you approve and reward the secondary director's decision in the area for mergers? Is your central choice your classes of twenty-seven and twenty-eight? Is that something you're going to go through with? Although it is out of time - I cannot imagine that you do not know it - what is the average of students now after the thousands of associations in Greece? It is something that I consider to be self-evident and you should know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u48	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, school changes take place every year with effect for next year. So it's not something that happens surprisingly. For primary and secondary school establishments it shall be issued each year in a circular to determine the timetable for the submission of the necessary supporting documents by the relevant primary and secondary departments and by the regional directorates. For changes in the school year '21-22' was published on 9-10-20 circulars, the subject being: 'Study changes in primary and secondary school units for the '21-22' school year and the process is described. For the number of pupils and pupils per class in high school and in the first and second grades of general high school, a joint ministerial decision is valid, according to which pupils and students in each class or class of high school and general high school may not exceed twenty-seven. Students who are more in classes are divided into classes only with very special decisions. A 10% increase may be made by decision of the Director of secondary education. As regards the number of pupils and pupils per section in Class III of the General High School, in accordance with Article 116 of Law 4610/19, the number of pupils and pupils per section of both general education and guidance groups for the 3rd grade of general high school may not exceed twenty-fifths. Parts with more than twenty-five students or students are divided into new departments. The number of pupils and pupils per section of both general education and guidance groups for the 3rd grade of general high school and the number of pupils and pupils per section for the 3th grade of the summer of professional high school may not exceed twenty-two. Parts with more than twenty two students or students are divided into new departments. In exceptional cases pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2, an increase of 10% may be made by decision of the Director of secondary education concerned. Finally, in order to address the spread of pandemic and ensure the smooth functioning of the pandemic departments, everything provided for in the Joint Ministerial Decision on the reopening of all primary, secondary, special education units for the school year '21-22' and includes measures to prevent the spread of the coronary during their operation. The measures provided for in this Decision, such as the increased free self-diagnostic control of pupils and students, the rapid tests in the case where there is close contact with the case, the mandatory use of a mask, the different breaks in combination with the large percentage of the vaccination of teachers exceeding 82%, but also the vaccination of many pupils and pupils who are vaccinated daily and their number continuously increases, contribute decisively to the smooth pursuit of the life of education in school units. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u50	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have not answered anything about the question I asked you. You respond to formal rules and, indeed, you tell them as you would like to describe them. You do not even describe that even this unacceptable law that you brought, which raises the schoolchildren's limit to twenty-seven, is the maximum and lays down that the permitted threshold is fifteen. You get parts that have twenty children in the midst of a pandemic and make them twenty - seven children. And that's what you had nothing to answer. If that's possible! We had the Secretary General of the Ministry publicly lied that the departments you brought together were ten children. Where were the ten kids, Minister? Nowhere. Parts of twenty children come together and reach the upper limit so that you do not recruit in the middle of a pandemic. Is that your only interest in public education after all? You're telling us it's happening every year. In the middle of the year, a month after the school year began, every year? Tell us such examples. We are told that we are 'take measures' and that the tests are measures. Distances are the basic tool defined by the WHO in schools. You put children as sardines in the middle of a coronary in schools in areas where there are social problems and twenty-seven children means no learning. It is an irreversible thing to do, it is a complete indifference to public education. We invite you to get it back immediately. It is incomprehensible that both in the middle of a coronary and in socially sensitive areas you take the sections to the maximum possible number you have authorised, to twenty-seven people, and use 10% to take it above. It's incomprehensible what you're doing. We urge you to put yourself on the subject and say something essential and take them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u52	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, I don't know what lie you're talking about. Mr Koptsis has such a good knowledge of the issues, he is so informed and serious that he cannot say anything that is inaccurate. As far as your objection is concerned that we are doing anything to prevent recruitment, I will remind you - because we are often in this Chamber and you are interested in educational matters - that four and a half thousand special education teachers were hired, the first in educational time last year, almost twelve thousand teachers this year. I will not repeat the figures I have told you, because according to the law and the specifications we are working. I will tell you about your question that the mergements of departments at the Secondary Education Department of Athens and in particular at the 5th and 6th High School of Aigaleo, at the 4th High School of Aigaleo, at the 3rd High School of Agia Varvaras and at the High School of Peristeri, as an example, were made on the basis of the information provided by the information system "Myschool" in the context of the management of human resources and in accordance with the applicable legislation on the number of students in schools. I would point out that the average of pupils and pupils per department in our country is very low compared to the average of most European Union countries. In particular, the average is 19,94 pupils and students per department in secondary education and 17,41 in primary education and there is no netting of locusts, mountainous and island regions with large urban centres. So the numbers give the reality. To deal with the spread of pandemic and ensure a smooth life of education, I note that all statistical models show that the most effective transmission control policies in school halls are often self-diagnostic tests, the use of the mask and the control of symptoms. The least efficient is the reduction of the student density. Mathematical models of the University of New York, which the ECDC also mentions, calculated that in order to achieve 40% reduction in transmission in school rooms by reducing density, students should be divided into three sections, rotating every three days at school alternately, while the universal test, such as the practice in our country, at least once a week - to us it is more than a week, is at least two - 70% reduction in transmission. This interesting element is not an accident. It trusts our teachers, our executives, students and parents and comes from September's data: Three thousand less cases in children four to eighteen years old in September when the schools were open and millions of tests were carried out compared to August when the schools were closed and much less tests were carried out. The second element is that cases were drastically and drastically reduced at the ages of 15 to eighteen. We have two and a half times less cases in September at these ages, and I think that is due to vaccination, but also to faithful adherence to health protocols. With regard to vaccination in the educational community, our teachers have shown a responsible attitude. They responded massively to the vaccination programme. They shielded individual public health and the educational process in this way and were, of course, also for children, but also for all of us. And the vaccination of pupils and students from twelve years old and over is also progressing. Already in the 15- to eighteen-year-olds and 17% for the 12- to 14-year-olds. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Minister. The next two questions are similar, but you want them to be made separately. But you can also speak to the Minister, if he wishes, to make sure that he responds separately to each other. If you have no objection to that. I get it in court.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u55	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u56	You're welcome, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u57	Mr President, it seems to be two topical questions addressed to the same Minister, but the questions raised are different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u58	If the questions are different, I understand. It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But since there's an objection, it's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u59	There's an objection from me at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u60	The fifth will be discussed under number 43/8-10-2021, a topical question by the President of Heraklion, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamulaki to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "What is the design of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the restoration of the building stock in the earthquaked areas of Heraklion?" The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Georgios Karagiannis. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Syrias said earlier, it is a question that is broader, and I have seen a timely question from the point of view of both the Communist Party, but different and distinct questions are raised on an issue, of course, which is of great concern to public opinion and particularly to the island. Why is it bothering? Because there was a truly disastrous earthquake. Let me focus a little on this. It's not just the tension through the Richters, it's not just the focal distance that was very short, it's not a time, and the time of a ninth morning that happened, it wasn't even its duration that was quite corded in time. It was, above all, the acceleration of the soil, which has contributed to having in our country perhaps the most devastating earthquake in recent decades. A little observation. The acceleration of the ground was 0.8 when in Parnitha we lamented seventy-five dead in 1999 was 0.6, or 25% stronger than the acceleration of the ground. For engineers they know, this plays a decisive role in stress. Now we're getting into the point. From the information we have, Minister, we know that on 6 October you saw the progress of the inspections carried out in the area by fellow engineers, on 8 000 five hundred forty buildings and, more specifically, seven thousand fifteen houses, where three thousand nine hundred six were found to be inappropriate. It is appallingly large the rate of inappropriateness that has emerged around these dwellings. And, of course, a corresponding percentage for business spaces which, from a control of three hundred forty-five professional spaces, emerged 180 million inappropriate. And that goes far beyond 50%. We therefore have an extremely difficult situation here after this catastrophic earthquake and a precarious situation for the future of the region. I say this because the measures taken by the state so far are not enough. What is particularly concerned, however, is what will happen in the medium term, how will we manage to contain the population and not to have centrifuges, which have unfortunately been shaped in recent times and with the school roof which, as you can see, is inadequate, but also with the centrifuge pressure that exists in the region. So, having an overall picture, I want to focus mainly on two distinct questions. The first, of course, is what progress is being made, Minister, and it is very important - and it is very important - of the audit procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In other words, when the second ophthalmic autopsy, carried out by political engineers, dogmatics in particular, will come on the issue of buildings. Because there are too many buildings, which have been characterized by the well-known yellow colouring, that is, essentially, that there is a second attempt of autopsy to conceal the state of fitness or not of the building. There are thousands of our fellow citizens who are currently in a precarious state, do not know what will happen, cannot exploit any tools available from the state. It is therefore very important to identify the geographical perimeter and to hide it and, of course, to know when the end of these checks will occur. And secondly, what is the medium-term plan, the medium-term plan of the state. And that is the crucial thing, which does not have to do with the short-term relief effort, but what is the medium-term plan of the state so that, in fact, we can keep this region alive, which has a characteristic central role in Heraklion Prefecture - you know it, I imagine, with the knowledge and autopsy you have done - and for us it is of key importance. What is the plan, then, and what is the time for the checks to be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u62	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mamulaki, I am faithful to say on this date, because this is the third time - and with your colleague's question it will be the fourth - which I answer on the issues of Crete. And you know, although we're talking about a very sad event, we're coming here and we're like a government and a Ministry of Infrastructure, through the systematic and methodical work we've been doing all this time, with great pleasure to present you with the progress of all projects. Because, indeed, as far as the issue of the earthquake in Arkalochori is concerned - I had answered it to your colleague, Mr Kegeroglu, I have answered it several other times - it should be acknowledged by all of us that we have been there since the first time and we have dealt with the issues. The government came down, through the Minister responsible, Mr. Stylianides. I was one of the first hours there with Mr. Triantopoulos. The engineers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport have been there since the first moment and we haven't left a day from there and we're trying to deal with all the issues. We are talking about a fact that has a wide range, and that is what you understand, and you understand that the procedures take some time to do so. But what have we done so far? Because, really, we really need to get to the point and talk to numbers. Because all this restoration process is a dynamic process. I would like to inform you, therefore, that the primary checks at a very large percentage have been completed. Already in the past few days, secondary checks in buildings, which were characterised as non-residential, have been launched. I want to tell you that we've already re-elected four hundred twenty buildings. The eighty - nine emerged inhabitable, the eighty - inhabitable, repair - needing repairs, and fifty - and - a protocols of autopsy of dangerous, prepared buildings to speed up their demolition processes by the municipalities. Until yesterday, October 17, autopsies have been carried out in ten and a half thousand buildings, of which five thousand three hundred fifty - three have been classified as residential and six thousand fifty - two nonresidential. The government, Mr Mamulakis, ran on this process. The first beneficiaries of housing assistance have taken their money. The NSAs are out. We have so far made four HRs against housing subscriptions as well as delimitation. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, however, because it is in a broad area, already in the next few days, and after suggesting that the Region of Crete is in danger, we will proceed to a supplementary CYR and to other local communities that have been affected. It's a big deal. The first thirty-four homes have gone to the area. We are dealing with the whole issue. As far as teaching rooms are concerned, and that's where we're headed. I'll give you the information you need. In any case, I have to tell you that we are following every day all the issues that Arkalochori has, the Municipality of Minoa - Pediados, and the municipality that is right next door and we are dealing with all the issues. Thank you very much, I will return to my remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u65	Mr. Secretary, you said that you have come here to the Greek Parliament four times on the case of the shocked area of Arkalochori. You may have to come to fourteen, twenty-four or fifty-four, because this issue is of primary importance to all of us in Crete and not only. I will stress this, and I will say, and I will prove why it is more serious than some of the government might have imagined. I'm actually going. I told you that it is necessary to crystallise the perimeter in which they are enclosed, incorporate effectively the affected areas. in the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia to harmonise both FEKs and joint ministerial decisions with these regions. We must close this loose end as soon as possible. It is not possible that three whole weeks have elapsed, Mr President, since this unfortunate incident and that this situation has not yet been cleared up. In the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia, as we know, the Municipal Unity of Archanes is part of it. The Cyber Municipal Communities must be integrated and finalised. Kalivion, Ligorunos, Tephelios, Charakis, etc. In the Municipality of Gortini we have only the Municipal Unit of Agia Varvara. In the Municipality of Heraklion, Mr. Minister - to know - it is not just the case with the Municipality of Temens. The largest fortification project in Europe, the Venetian walls of Heraklion’s 6.2 km development, with extremely complex and difficult, heartbeat bastions, have suffered enormous damage, huge cracks. The volume of contaminants creates a risk situation in which it can, in fact, be too, very precarious for public safety. In other words, here there is a domino effect, which affects areas beyond the wider or specific area of Arkalochori. But I'm actually going because I heard some things that can't stay unanswered. You talked about the preparedness of the state mechanism. You know, communication visits - directly - say nothing. The substance is support and support are specific actions. Now, because we are talking about acts, to say that, really, the crook of the famous FEK 4646 - because that is the only way it could be termed - created a huge problem, if you want, understanding, but also misunderstanding. It was not possible for a natural person to be able only one case of aid and everyone else to go to borrowing. You know that they have speeded up, following the encouragement of your own political actors in the region, to incorporate their homes, their homes, their businesses in this FEK. And what did they perceive later on? That only for one home, in fact, they have received subsidies and everything else is borrowing. I think that is unacceptable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government has, of course, moved to overthrow this status quo. But here, what do we have now? We have the possibility of our fellow citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u66	Finish because you have spoken twice as much time in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is a very critical point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u69	This is a very important point. We can't discuss mortgage lending. 20% of the grant that is a loan is mortgaged. What mortgage lending? The building that suffered this tragic damage through the earthquake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u70	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u71	So, I think - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - that the Minister really has to answer the issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u72	But that's not how it works. You've spoken a total of eight minutes instead of five. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u73	I think you're overreacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u74	And your colleague has the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u75	We therefore call on the Minister to proceed immediately with an amendment to the framework so that the earthquakes can be strengthened on the substance, directly and not by mortgages. We are also calling on him to review the framework that is being planned. The state owes a total free assistance to the affected and not just one property. We expect a commitment from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u77	Mr Mamulaki, it is the duty of the Government and the relevant Ministers and State Secretarys to come to the House and answer your questions. And that, you know, we do it with great pleasure, although I think that in your own governance this was not the case. It was another perspective, you had another view of parliamentary control, and you did not serve it. So, on this issue I would like you not to make recommendations to the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, because here we are, we answer all the questions and we follow all the issues. I want to remind you - although I did not want to respond in this way, but let me tell you that - that during your administration, in 2015-2019, eight earthquakes had occurred. Can you tell us how you've compensated the world and how many days?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u78	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u79	I don't think it matters. It's important that you recognize it because I have the evidence. And the evidence suggests that people took money after eighteen months. In Arkalochori, as well as all those affected in the wider region of Heraklion, whose homes have already been affected, have already taken money. The government was there, and the appropriate tiles of the Ministry of Infrastructure are still there and make the autopsies. Mr. Mamulaki, we have absolutely nothing to fear. We did things in Arkalochori that had never been done. Why? Because we realized it was a very serious phenomenon. This phenomenon has essentially been tackled by triggering the entire state mechanism. The "KITIRIAN INDUSTRIES S.A." right now - and I will present photos to you - the company responsible for the Greek State, which has responsibility for the schools - is normally owned by the municipalities - has active contracts and repairs the 1st Grade and High School of Arkalochori. The first halls have already gone there. It's a difficult phenomenon. A lot of people have been hurt. We'll deal with it. We're here to deal with it. But please, let us not make a policy on the debris and earthquakes. Here all the political forces must deal with it in a serious manner and understand that the world has nothing to expect from Parliament. It's the task of counterpopulation to give up and go faster. I understand that. And that's how we should do it. And that's what we do. However, I would also like you to recognise that the Minister responsible for these matters, Mr Triantopoulos, and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Civil Protection, are now dealing with them. Our citizens have already begun to receive compensation, they have already gone homes there, and the government has already made sure that some residents go and stay in hotels and residential areas. That's where we are. Now, as far as this is concerned, which you mentioned about demarcation of the CSM, I will say: but, in order for this whole process to go quickly, we have taken care of the main core - where we have had the many damages - to demarcate it. Then we're going to make a supplementary MSU. That's why we're there, so we're not out of the field. So in the next few days, we'll do it. Now, the last one. Report the hundred and fifty squares. This is the first time, Mr Mamulaki, to compensate for all fifty square feet. In all these earthquakes, which have occurred over your days, it has not happened. We changed that and we move on. And I want to inform you that this FEK has already come out - it is already published at the moment - and they can all go and get the compensation due to them. So, we're ahead of what you're giving up on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. The next question, of course, is similar - it is the eleventh question under number 63/11-10-2021 of the President of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject of "Secure housing of earthquake affected by earthquake in Crete". And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karayannis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that thousands of buildings have been found inappropriate, whole villages have been converted into ruins, hundreds of injured homeless people have been scattered from here and there, in tents, in enclosed places, in hotels, in relatives, in friends, in mostly rented houses in Heraklion, thirty kilometers away from home, work and training of their children. Already the weather conditions have shown their teeth with "Blue" and make life even more difficult. But they also fight for tomorrow for the fate of their property, homes, families. They are indignant about the lack of organized state care to cover safe temporary housing in homes in their village, i.e. home to all affected homeless, Greek and migrants. Firstly, we know that until 7 October, in the first control of buildings, out of the nine thousand and twenty-seven buildings, which were controlled by the five thousand two hundred and five, were not resident. We also learned from reports from the mayor that 80% - at least three and a half thousand - of the houses in Minoa Pedadas, which have been examined - without counting the other municipalities - have come yellow. Official briefing, Minister, there is no information. The fact is that the homeless are hundreds and the government is not now solving the problem of housing, an obvious issue in the 21st century. It is therefore very important to have regular official information. People ask and they need to know. So you must tell us how many homes are inhabited and how many inhabitable, how many are green and how many yellow are on the basis of the first check. Correspondingly, from the second check - so far - how many of the yellows of the first check are red and how many yellow? What is the actual total number of homeless people - owners, tenants, immigrants - regardless of where they are now? So far thirty-four homes have been installed without equipment and even a wounded homeless has not entered. Ninety more homes are expected as you say. But it sounds like there are no houses available and you're looking abroad. Is that true? Isn't that so? If this is the case, let me 'take it and slip'. Neither are the thirty, nor the fifty, even if they come. One hundred and fifty homes over four are six hundred. The rest of the people where they come in? Not covered by the total housing needs. The available number of houses is in complete disparity with what has been demonstrated by the proposals of the municipalities. The proposal of the Municipality of Minos - Pedadas is for four hundred twenty houses, the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia is forty. So four hundred sixty homes over four make us a thousand eight hundred forty persons. Where's the eight hundred forty? Where's the six hundred? And as long as the time passes, the number of wounded, who have a temporary roof will demand to return to their place and to their right. The number of the homeless will rise. If we consider that hundreds of injured are at hotels, end October the season closes, apartments in Heraklion, with relatives, friends as I told you, at a distance of thirty kilometres and not in good living conditions at hotels, to know this, the number of homeless will rise even further.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u82	Keep going in your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u83	Allow me a little, Mr President, because it is important and I really want the Minister to have answers so that things are not suspended. The affected denounces that the habitats will not be allocated per village on the grounds that there are no sewerage networks and other infrastructure to be built up. And who is to blame that there are no sewering networks in villages, their residents? The thirty four houses, which have gone so far, are in two free spaces, at the exhibition center and in Bonn, which looks more like a ghetto. They don't want people to leave their residence. He tells you, "We want to stay here." Third and last. There are reports of wounded that secondary testing of building suitability turns many buildings from non-residential buildings, i.e. yellows in greens, completely unjustified in many cases not to say in most cases. Why? Is it because the number of houses which have suffered serious damages is inextricably large and what the government is seeking is to reduce the compensation drastically? We are talking about a hard reality for the affected and it does not soften up with government announcements about the reconstruction of Arkalochori, a part of development for the small ones around the new Kastelios airport. So we ask you, Minister: what immediate actions and what timetable the government will take to meet the legitimate demand of the people in the region of Heraklion for the immediate cover of the housing needs of all the earthquakes inclusive owners and tenants now, yesterday, in human living conditions with all the accompanying projects, which are required as a temporary solution per village and not by concentrating them on a few points.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u84	Mr. Synhronakis, you've been in six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u85	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u86	The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, in the first part of your position, I should like to tell you that we are here. Every week we respond, every week we give evidence, every week we announce how many autopsies happen. We have nothing to hide at all. And can I tell you something? Although it is a sad fact, efficiency and how quickly the government reacted, it is good to say it. But since you have referred to me, I will talk about it once more. Primary checks at a large percentage are almost complete. Who haven't been completed? What checks, what autopsies have not been completed? The autopsies have not been completed where the owners were absent or where the engineers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport could not open their homes. People weren't there. There's nothing we can do there. We are waiting through the municipalities - we have come to communication - to open the houses, to be able to enter beyond the visual control to see what damage has happened. And since last Friday, October 8th, secondary checks in buildings that were characterised as non-residential have been started. I would like to give you one element - I mentioned it beforehand in the question, but it is important that your answer also be given. For the Municipality of Minoa - Fields from the first results of secondary control in four hundred and twenty buildings re-elected, the hundred eighty-ninth emerged inhabitable, the eighty-natives that need repairs and fifty-one that have been drafted autopsy protocols to be demolished. Mr Syntagakis, I would like us to be a little more careful about administrative acts of civil servants - security scientists. And no civil servant, no man who controls a building who's gonna fall is not going to sign it. Neither Minister does it nor does anyone agree to give directions from the political leadership, nor would any political leadership ever do so for a building that is not safe, say that children move forward and take out the yellow or green. You can't do that. We don't do that sort of thing. They are political engineers and, depending on each building, they complete the autopsy paper, which is an administrative act and there are criminal responsibilities. So let's get over this and be more careful. Up to now, there have been about a thousand and a half autopsies. The five thousand three hundred fifty - five and six thousand two non - dwellings have been declared residential. On 7 October the MAH was published, and the first aid procedure as regards housing aid has already been launched. The controls continue on a daily basis to demarcate all the affected areas - as I said to your colleague - in cooperation with the Region of Crete, because there are other municipalities, such as the Municipality of Vianno, Gortyna, Faistos, Hersonissos, as well as areas of the Lassithi Plateau of the regional unit of Lassithi. It will therefore be published within the next few days additional MCAs and other local communities affected. Indeed - and you quite rightly mentioned it - the issue of temporary housing is very important. We are in daily contact with the mayors, with the municipalities responsible for how to proceed all these issues. We have now sent four times a document to tell us which residents are the people to whom they are entitled, and for that the Ministry has also proceeded to a competition of ninety housewives. But let me - and I do not want to go along with it - you cannot write 'a pretext for the lack of the necessary infrastructure'. But of course the necessary infrastructure is needed. So we're going to put housekeepers when we haven't secured electricity and the OK so that people can experience dignity? I guess you're not asking for this thing. I imagine you realise that these precursors must first be carried out and then the habitats must be placed. And that's why we're in cooperation with the municipalities, and that's why we want to know how many people are entitled to them. How many people really need them. And that's why we don't want all the residents to go to homes. There are the hotels or houses that have been made available so that we can move on and there is a real sharing. And that - I imagine - you understand that and we can agree and unite on this. After all, the houses are a temporary and a housing solution that is complementary to all the rest of us. I'll say more in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Mr. Synatia, soon. You have raised matters. You spoke six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u89	As far as I can, Mr President. But I think there is a debate that puts the problem in its place. And from this point of view, Minister, every week we will be here. Don't think so. Because it occurs not only in housing, they are compensation measures for people, they are measures for schools, they are a lot of things. Now announced six thousand, fifty - two inhabitable. I don't know if you mean all the Regional Unit of Heraklion or just the Municipality of Minoa - Pedada.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u90	For all of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u91	Yes, sir. How many of these are in your view homes? How many homes are inhabited by people inside? Give me a number of how many people live there. Obviously you cannot give me any reason why you cannot make such a calculation. But there are too many of them! What will thirty-four houses say, what will ninety, what will a hundred fifty say, what will be two hundred? But that's not what you're answering. Minister, how will these people's housing be covered at their homes? And the question is, why don't you go set up the homes that are exclusively the responsibility of the state in the village of the affected and not in concentration camps? The answer is that, because they do not have a sewerage network, they cannot set up - it says - the settlements per village. And I asked you: Who is responsible for not having a sewage network? The residents? But when you go homes with the contractors, obviously you also need the sewer network, there are also PPC substations. Many accompanying works need to be done. Hey, do this per village, but it's costing! That's why you want to gather the houses in single super-local spaces. I will tell you, Minister, this. If it were not for solidarity, the collective help of the ordinary world, the social actors, the unions, would not move a leaf. As I tell you. And I'm not the only one saying it. They all say so. Unbelievable self-organization in Arkalochori and all the villages. And they're worthy of congratulations on that. It is what the popular poet from Anoia, the Nidiotis, says: "I worship your grace, my people!" Otherwise, the king is naked. What plan 'Englades'? Are you kidding us? He's nonexistent. You know, what does "Engladus" plan mean? It means money, it means personal, it means earthquake protection plans, it means infrastructure. For the last four months of intense seismic activity in the same area, with a hundred nonresidential houses recorded and forged indifferently. You did not preach the area in an emergency, while nature warned. He told you: "Take preventive, anti-Semitism measures". And you whistle indifferently.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u92	Good, Mr. Symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u93	So the earthquake has surfaced in the most tragic way that the world is unarmed against natural phenomena. And now - and I'm closing up with it - completely disoriented...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u94	Come on, Mr. Synhonaki, it's nine minutes. Five more and nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u95	I'm hanging up. Completely disorientated have you shifted the conversation to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u96	We still have twenty dates.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u97	Arkalochoriou. That's what SYRIZA did before. Of course, and it is a conversation that needs to be opened, but at the present time people must be housed, compensated, suspended, suspended payments abolished, the ETUC abolished, a thousand two things that we will say in another timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u98	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u99	In any case - and I close with it - the conclusion is that only the people can save the people. And yesterday - I announce - an open popular assembly took place at the Arkalochori Exhibition Centre and a coordinating committee was set up to fight the full restoration of the damage and take what people have to get. I am tabling the Coordinating Committee's decision in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u100	All right, Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u101	Mr President, the honourable Member will present in the Minutes the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Let me submit to the minutes the photos that have been taken today from the work of rehabilitating schools in your area. Because some talk and some talk in action. And let me tell you that our government speaks with deeds, because we are there and we are dealing with the issues that exist. That's to restore the truth. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, George Karagiannis, submits for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now, where the houses will stand, Mr Synergyakis, that's what the municipalities will tell us. It won't be decided by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport that will enter each area by the houses. This is decided by the responsible, the mayor of the region along with his technical service, in order to ensure that the living conditions of the citizens which are in the context of dignity, security and hygiene are ensured there. If you want to see anything else, we are delighted to hear your suggestion. But I didn't hear any suggestions. Unless you want out of a house, we can send a house. Ladies and gentlemen, we have immediately responded to the demands of the phenomenon. We ran all the procedures for the restoration of the buildings for the relief of the wounded. The government immediately announced - and they are now acts - a framework of actions and compensation for both HICPIA and all issues. And now the people of the region have already been compensated, not everyone because it is a dynamic process, but this process is going on. And it's not a process that in one day everything can be done. Work is being done in schools. We've brought the classrooms over there. We've brought the first homes. In the next few days, the next houses will come for the inhabitants. Hotels were available. Houses were available. It was an intense phenomenon. We all recognize it. We all understand that. We don't have a magic wand, Mr. Synhonaki. If anyone has, let him come here, but there's no one. The times when this government compensates the citizens and is next door were never there. I could - it is none of your business - to read to you the times of 2015-2019, but that doesn't matter. It is important that we move quickly, with a programme, for students to be able to enter schools tomorrow and ensure that people live in human life. That's the job of our government. The Secretary-General has already come down with the relevant State Secretary, Mr Triantopoulos, along with Mr Bakoyannis, to see the special town plan. We're there. We are dealing with all issues, not with cries, but with actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. We're entering the next question. It is the third under number 42/8-10-2021 of the First Cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Anniversary works in the areas affected by the fires last August". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras, will answer. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. The inhabitants of Varybobis, Parnitha, Thrakomacedon and Hippocrates, Minister, who have recently been affected by catastrophic fires, are concerned in view of the rainfalls and a report by SKAI last week that flooding strays have not yet been placed in these areas, because the Ministry of the Environment has not signed the contract with the contractor. However, following the catastrophic fires in August in Attica, Evia, the Peloponnese, there were assurances from the government that anti-military works in the affected areas were launched immediately. For this reason, almost a month later, a legislative amendment was voted in favour of this House introducing measures to speed up the flooding and studies in areas affected by the catastrophic fires. As a consequence of this, programming contracts were to be concluded with the Ministry of Energy and the Environment in four specific specific exceptional cases, in order to allow for the immediate start of the construction of anti-corruption and anti-military works in the emergency procedure. It's been two months since the catastrophic fires. These days we have seen heavy rainfall and are now in the middle of autumn and winter is on the table. So you're asking: Has contracts been signed with contractors for the flooding projects in the areas of Attica, Evia, Arcadia, Elias, Corinthia, in the areas more generally affected by the catastrophic fires? At what stage are the flooding projects and when are they expected to be completed? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening. Dear Mr Kamin, I am always pleased with the discussions we have had and we have had earlier at the Athens City Council, where we have really had effective and substantial contacts between us. In relation to anti-corrosion and anti-corrosion projects, I naturally share the concern of the people of Parnitha and yours and everyone about the progress of anti-corrosion and flooding in the areas affected by the catastrophic summer fires. Our Government has adopted a new philosophy, the rapid response, the rapid response, with the aim of effectively restoring the regions affected. You also mentioned just before heavy rainfalls. Of course, and it is part of the climate crisis, a manifestation of the climate crisis, these intense rainfalls, such as those that existed with 'Ballos'. In some areas within forty-eight hours, one third of the annual rainfall fell. According to the Athens Observatory, only on Thursday and Friday of those days fell 460 millimeters of rain in Ithaca, 262 millimeters in Atolokarnania and 182 at the Patrizia Station. I mention these, for example, just to understand the size of the water that flooded the cities and areas from which Balos passed. Of course we need to act quickly. We in the Ministry of the Environment are fighting and with all our services we are doing everything we can to run the bureaucratic processes that we put aside. Many of the floods we have seen were certainly not due to the burnt areas. I am thinking mainly of the rampant streams, Mr Kamine. In Attica, according to a study by the National Technical University, in 1945 there were open streams of 1.280 km long. Today it is estimated at just 434 kilometers, that is, 850 kilometers of streams and rivers have been bailed, they have been covered, they have been built. The same is true in many other regions of Greece, urban, semi-urban or rural. Antimilitary works take time to build and are not very popular with the citizens. We know very well, the two of us in particular, since most of the times they have been demanding a loss of the arbitrariness that has existed for decades. Let's go to these projects now. I wanted to make this introduction to see a little bit of the context in which we are moving. First of all, as you said, with Mr 4824/2021, with whom we adopted legislative acts, we have also brought considerable arrangements for the restoration of the regions affected by the fires and for the financial support of the affected and for the speeding up of procedures. So let's go see specifically for every area you're talking about. For all regions, the hazardous trees from the national, provincial and municipal roads have been felled directly and priorityally. We are talking about hundreds of miles of network. Only what is necessary for the construction of anti-corrosion works and in the second phase of the flooding to be available to the inhabitants to meet their individual needs remained there. Since 13 September we have developed many anti-corrosion projects in many areas. Before that, of course, I should like to tell you about each area separately. I will tell you that for all the regions, our Ministry's Directorate-General for Forestry has made the mapping of the burnt areas very fast with six thematic fields in time. The first was of course the whole of the burned area, the second was forests and the printing of forests and forest land, according to the posted forest map, the species of forest vegetation and the types of soil, their characteristics, general gradients and digital soil model, the hydrographic network as a fifth module and finally the potential flood risk zones. So let's go see each area. Do you want me to go on with my dentistry, Mr. President? I have many areas and I will say for each one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u106	In your dentistry, Mr. Amyras. Thank you. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the climate crisis has been on track for years and we have been living in our country very strongly. You've been government for over two years now. I told you about the first-time works, the removal of burnt trees, studs, laundry, etc. I expect you to tell me which areas these work have been completed. But there are other flooding works too. As we read in the press, just yesterday, on Thursday, October 14, with a decision by the Deputy Minister of Development, Yiannis Tsakiri, and the Secretary-General of Public Investment and the ESDP Mr.Skalkos, credits amounting to 39.7 million in the Central Region for major anti-military work and for the restoration of damage to the infrastructure of the Mandudi, Lake, northern Euboea in general. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] What is going on in the rest of the region and why in these areas after two months? By Act of Legislation of August, the forestry services were transferred to the Ministry of the Environment. You told us something that happened. What else have these services done and how do you think to use them? Now you have a huge responsibility now, because you have the forests. I want to hear if you consider the recent management of flooding phenomena successful, because we have seen images of unprecedented with children trapped in schools, buses stopped in flooded underground readings. Is that the government's responsibility, is it the region's responsibility, the local government's responsibility? Whose is it? Finally, in investigating today's topical question, I found that the central state and self-government are involved, and from the central state at least five ministries, finance, interior, infrastructure, environment and civil protection. In February, following the catastrophic snow management, the Government committed itself to simplifying the institutional framework for dealing with these phenomena. In the meantime, the catastrophic fires of summer have been intervened, and now the floods and we have not seen any change. How many disasters does the government expect to start with the simplification process? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kamine, I'll give you information about each area separately. We said that the removal of stationed burnt logs from the coastal areas, from the provincial network, the national, the municipality, has been completed for all the burnt areas of Greece. Let's go see Attica. Attica Reforestation Directorate: He proceeded to three studies of anti-corrosion works in the region. Great, Aleppohori and Geranna are the one area. There we had burnt forest lands forty - six thousand seven hundred thirty - eight acres. The study on anti-corrosion works for this region has been completed, considered, approved and completed these days the tender documents have been tendered. Immediately within the next few days, projects will also be launched there under the urgency procedure. Funding has been ensured through the code of the natural disaster site of the Region of Attica. Let's go to a barumbas, a Krioneri and a Tatoi. There we have eighty - three thousand five hundred sixty acres of burning land. The anti-corrosion projects here are a budget of EUR 18,285,000. The funding is secured by the AE's natural disasters of our Ministry and thanks to the institution of the restoration and reafforestation contractor, the implementation of anti-corrosion protection projects starts within the next few days. Let's go to Vilia and Mount Father. There we had an area of ninety - seven thousand two hundred and fifty - six acres of burning. Study completes these days and in November the anti-corrosions begin there too. Let's go to Lavrio Forestry. There we had five thousand three hundred eight acres. The study was completed, the study of anti-military and anti-corrosion works was approved for the area of Agios Konstantinos in the Municipal Unit of Keratea. We are talking about a thousand acres with a budget of 170,000 euros. Within November, this also begins. Before I go on with the regions, I would like to tell you this, Mr Kamine, that anti-military projects are the result of anti-corrosion projects. Anti-milling is heavy-type works. The first concern you must have - and we do - is to retain the land or, if you want, before that to take out all the burned trees from areas that can cause accidents or damage to the electricity grid. We have done this for all the regions of Greece that have been burnt. Then there are the anti-corrosion devices, which are made with corrobials, corrosion barriers. You mentioned it yourself in your question. I say to you that in most of the regions they have not even started, because the studies had to be finished and the dangerous areas had to be prioritised, they should begin within the next few days. I'm coming to northern Evia. This is where we have two areas. We have the area of the Lake of Mandudi and Agia Anna, a burnt area of three hundred and eighteen thousand acres, and we also have the other area of Istia - Eedipus. There we have an eighty - nine thousand acres burned. All studies have been conducted. Both anti-corrosion studies have been considered and approved for the Lake Forestry, and four anti-corrosion and two anti-milling studies have been carried out for the Istia Forestry. All five anti-corrosion studies have already started as a prerequisite as I told you to start anti-military operations in the regions of the Lake Forestry. And here was a role for the restoration and reafforestation contractor. It is an institutional tool that we introduced into the arsenal of public administration so that in cases of exceptional urgency, such as those of northern Evia and the other burnt areas in Greece, the funding can be quickly made with the approval of the Forestry and overcoming red tape and times that took up to two years, Mr President. Two years ago, it took for studies to be carried out and for anti-corrosion projects to be carried out and for financing to be provided. We in a month and a half have started the anti-corrosion works in northern Evia. Since September, anti-corrosion works have already been carried out in the Kantelli terminology basin, protecting the Lake settlement with the end date for the unemployed to be completed on December 14th. Anti-corrosion works are also carried out in two critical hydrological basins in the region, in Sepida and in Achladi. These projects will be completed on 17 and 18 December respectively. I want to point out one more thing. These works provided by direct awards and financed by contractors were not received by the companies. The forest cooperatives in the area, the forest workers, the people who have really been affected most by any other professional group and social group if you want in northern Evia. They are the ones who are carrying out the projects because they know the area as their pockets and, furthermore, because it was the least, Mr President, that the Greek state should do, enable these people to have a reason and be able to survive and stay in their place, and that is why we have them included as a critical factor in the study and the Benoit Committee's draft for the holistic restoration and return and reintroduction of northern Euboea in an economic and not just normality. I'm continuing with the regions and I'm going to be shorter. In the area of the Istias Forestry, Mr. Kamin, the first anti-corrosion project has been completed and the implementation of the projects in the other hydrological basins begins by a choice and priority risk. I'll talk about Elia, Ancient Olympia, Tower. There we had a hundred and twenty thousand acres burned. Here we have anti-corrosion budgets of EUR 4.318 000. The study has been sent for endorsement and approval. Within the days we will also be adopting and starting projects here. Specifically for this area, the cleaning in thirty-two dangerous sites has been completed. They went to the forests, the people of the forest service and the services of the Ministry of the Environment's central service in all the burnt areas, and they preferred the dangerous areas and on that basis the cleansing has been completed and the anti-corrosions are started. Most of them have already started. There are also two cleaning contractors for the maintenance and restoration of existing anti-military works in all the waters of the Regional Unit of Elias. In other words, all the anti-military works in the area are recleared and maintained. In Corinth, in terms of seventeen thousand two hundred fourteen acres, the implementation of anti-corrosion protection projects will start within the next few days. The cleansing has already been carried out there too. The support for the anti-corrosion and flooding projects to be carried out are already under way, especially in the Schinos region. In Achaea we had four thousand burnt acres in Zeria. Cleansing has taken place in the eleven places at risk and starts immediately, as the study is now being approved for three thousand five hundred acres. In Arcadia, where we had fifty-seven thousand burnt acres in Gortini, the anti-corrosions also started there. This is a budget of EUR 730,000. In Laconia, which we had a hundred thousand burnt acres of land, we expect the technical bulletin to be approved by the disaster code, but the implementation and completion of the first priority anti-corrosion protection projects will be completed by December. I took a lot of time, but it was the many areas and I missed a lot of evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u110	I understand it's a lot of areas. We should at least have them, because there's the next question. Let me inform you that they will not be discussed in consultation with the fifth question, number 41/7-10-2021, in spite of the so-called 'Support Fund' (N.128/1975) from which they should be supported, the seventh question under number 62/11-10-2021, the second question of the Hercule of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanouil Covenant to the Minister of the Interior, on 'Direct support measures for the affected and compensation to the 100% of the earthquake in Crete', and the 10th question under number 67/11-10-2021, with Emmanouil Covenant to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Direct measures to support the victims and compensation to the 100% of the earthquake in Crete', and the 10th question under number 67/11-10-2021, on the second question of the development of the 'Supplier of the Greek Republic' and 'Supplier of the Greek Republic', with a view to the development of the 'Supplier of the Greek Republic'. We are continuing the debate with the 20th question under number 64/11-10-2021 of a second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Populations in northern Evia despite the warnings of experts". Mr Arseni, good evening. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it's a time-consuming thing. It was presiding, Mr President. Initially with Mr Amyras, we have a loose end, the request for documents, which has never been delivered despite his dual promise to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u112	He's typical, too. You said you didn't have them on that day, etc. And you'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u113	It's been a long time. It was a February writing that was converted into a timely one and these documents were never delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u114	Was it to me or Mr. Screka?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u115	It was to you and it involved works and contracts in the Ghost Ghost. We've contacted and then your office repeatedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u116	I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u117	All right, Mr. Amyras, we're people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u118	Let's go to the question a little. As the mayor said after the catastrophic floods, an entire mountain has fled to Achladi, Kotsika, Pseropouli, Basilica, Agia Anna, areas I visited after the fire along with Yiannis Varoufakis and the stepping stone of Mera25. There have been shocking disasters known to follow if the necessary projects are not done. The mayor says that 10% of anti-corrosion works have become zero of the anti-military operations. Mr. Lekkas tells us that innovative projects should have been made, what happened in Cyprus, at very selected points, intervention along the bed, in very specific places that the erosion potential and morphology and geology play a specific role in the development of these flooding phenomena. Unfortunately, we went to a holistic situation. We have pointed out specific basins which should be taken into account. But holistic situations are not helping right now. The disasters were made by small basins in the eastern region on very specific streams in which we could intervene. Within two months, projects could be completed. What does the government say? Our Mr Amyras just now that the projects will be completed in December and that this is a speeding up process. That's unthinkable. Until then, there will be nothing left. Mr. Screkas advertises that twenty-four thousand meters of stalks have been built, a thousand meters of pruning, two thousand meters of assembled, seven hundred meters of stalks. It is just a fundamental comparison and I shall conclude, Mr President. In 2007, we destroyed Parnitha much less than we had in Evia, one/10, fifty thousand acres. In August, in the ashes, forest workers went from Halkidiki and did all the necessary work. Listen. Mr. Screkas advertises twenty-four thousand miles of studs after two months. In Parnitha, a few weeks later, nine hundred and thirteen miles of anticorrosion works, corrugated and corrugated. Deterioration from the flood has been prevented. If you want to compete, leave Cyprus, leave the rest of Europe alone. At least compete with what has happened so far in Greece. The main reason, Mr. Undersecretary, is your delays with your obsession to involve the contractors. That's where things go wrong. You tell the foresters to start work and they'll be paid out of the office. Suddenly they find out they'll be paid by the contractors. They have to sign contracts as telephone lists. EUR 100 per day will be paid. They finally see that this includes their own tools, their own gasolines, their own oil, their own movements. Eventually, their wages are minimal. You blow up all social cohesion and projects never happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u119	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u120	Please explain to us how the acceleration is to complete these projects in December.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u121	The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Amyras, you have three minutes at your disposal. It's good to keep them. There are too many questions. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u122	There are too many questions. However, I will answer everything. Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Arseni, I said before, in reply to a similar question from Mr Kamine, that of course we in the Ministry of the Environment are concerned and struggling with all our forces to shield the areas that have been burnt since the catastrophic fires of the summer. We must also see whether the floods in recent days which we have seen in recent burnt areas are due to chronic problems, namely flooding and interventions that have never been done. Because of the same storms, problems were created in Pelion. Pelion fortunately had no fire problems this summer. But we saw that there were disasters similar to those of northern Evia. Therefore, it means that there is a job to be done, as it seems that no one, over many decades, did prevent it from being the first concern of planning. See and see what happened with 'Blue', Mr President, in the past few days. The unequal hub of Chamosterna and Piraeus floods every time we have intense rain from the day of its inauguration three decades ago. Now we're going to Evia. You know, I've met with Mr. Chapourniot, and we keep talking on the phone. We coordinate, organize, complement each other, one helps one another to become what we have to do as a Greek state. To ensure the safety of people and their property after the fires. So what did Mr. Chaporniote say? The scaffolding, you know, leads to the wrong conclusions. And I'm not saying you've done this instantly. In any case, listen to what he said in an introductory statement: 'I did not say that he promised the state and did not. I said that anti-milling has not started yet because anti-milling is not a phone, you get it and it's over. Anti-milling needs studies, auction, contractor to be built. The first study was auctioned three days ago and then the rest will be completed. In the Municipality of Mandudi, anti-corrosion has been launched for thirty days.” When we were directly commissioned, changing the legislative framework to the local forest cooperatives, building anti-corrosion works, you reacted and voted against it. Now you say 'Why are you late?' But we're not late. If we were to follow the formal procedure to start the anti-corrosion projects, we would, as I said at least two years ago. We have examples. In Context that, in the Central Evia Fishery that was burnt in 2018, you know when the anti-corrosion projects began to be implemented? Just a few months ago, this summer. Where was this delay due? Because the formal administrative procedure has been followed. And despite the extremely urgent nature of these projects, there were objections, the known bureaucracy. And it's been two and a half years later. We started the anti-corrosion works in northern Evia within a month of the fire's suppression. I'll give you more details, just like I gave Mr. Kamine before he asked me. Firstly, they were felled and removed directly from the national, provincial and rural road network of North Evia all burnt trees. We're talking about hundreds of miles. We are talking about very difficult, yet extremely urgent, action that we have taken thanks to the contribution of the CSCE. I am passing along - because you referred to their cuts and gas - who said that we do not recognize the needs of forest cooperatives, who have taken on their backs by commissioning either contractors or us, anti-corrosion projects? We have already given EUR 700,000 exceptional grant to the CSCE to buy tools, take oil and fuel to replace the tools they have lost so that they can work. I'll tell you the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u123	Would it be better in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u124	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u125	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are trying to compare what you have done with some of the previous burnt-outs in Evia with what is happening right now. You are trying to explain to us that completing the anti-corrosion works in December will be a great success. I repeat. He says Mr. Lekkas that we should follow the example of Cyprus, which with very selected interventions on specific points in the bed, instead of facing all the points, managed not to have any problems. Two months are over, says Mr. Lekkas. But let's go back to remember what happened in Parnitha in 2007. Fifty thousand acres were burned. They brought forest workers from Halkidiki in August in the limur. I mention this because it was dramatically the images that came out of the media. They have been unpaid for a long time. Inside the ashes completed a thousand nine hundred thirteen miles of anticorrosion works. As a result, we have no flooding from this shocking fire in Parnitha, which has been politically disturbing in Greece. You join Mr. Petsa, who said "we must see what happened in Evia" because we see that the floods took place in the coastal zone while the mountain forests were burned. Apparently, he has no idea what happened to Evia. I went to these places. The pear burned down to the beach and high enough. The rest of the areas were burnt together. The disasters were expected. You are not honoured to question the relationship between flooding, rain, forests, destruction of fire and floods. Tell us really, Minister, when will the contractors be stopped? When will the foresters be triggered immediately? You started training the foresters on 20 September - if I am not mistaken - and then the floods followed. All of this with your insistence to put the contractors and a complete inefficient ending state, which completed the Evia disaster. Tell us that you will not keep your current commitment that the projects will be completed in December. It's too late, but too late. I think you understand that, too. We want the procedures to be accelerated immediately, to complete the projects in good time before the next sink. To be honest, she wasn't a big sink. If the phenomena that hit Athens were there, the situation would be shocking in Evia. We were almost lucky. Let's get to it right now before it gets worse. Strengthen the forest halls, which you have left without any worker, give immediate funding to forest cooperatives, immediately become the projects without further delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u127	Mr. Amyra, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it will not be a success, Mr Arsenis, to complete the anti-corrosion works in December, as I said to you, but it is our duty, it is a Greek state debt. So you say things that while I answer you, you probably don't hear them. You said to fund forest cooperatives. I told you that we received an exceptional grant of EUR 700,000 and, in addition, they have been entrusted with the anti-corrosion works in northern Evia. At the moment we are talking, there are seven hundred fishermen, Mr President. All the forest workers work even of the forced cooperatives in Northern Evia and because their number was exhausted, forest cooperatives also come from other regions of Greece to help. Yes, you do not, of course, want the replacement and reafforestation contractor, but thanks to these contractors, they have been guaranteed, especially for Evia and the Lake Forest Area, 4,000,000 euros and the CSCE runs. Contractors are ‘EREN HELLAS’ and PPC, always under the supervision of forests and the cooperation of urban cooperatives. Since September - I told you - the anti-corrosion works are being carried out in the Kantelli terminology basin, protecting the Lake settlement, as I said, with the final date of completion of the works on December 14, 2021. Also, the anti-corrosion works are carried out in two more critical hydro-regional basins of the region, Sepida and Achladi, with a time of completion on December 17th and 18th. The first anti-corrosion study projects are being carried out at the Istias, at the Forest there, and priority has been given to areas that are additionally vulnerable. I'll give you more evidence now. To make a comparison between Greece and Cyprus, which you mentioned. So, let's see, in Cyprus the event took place on 3 July 2021. I am referring to us - northern Evia, that is - on August 3, a month later. In Cyprus, the burnt area was forty-four thousand four hundred ninety acres. In northern Evia the burned area reached five hundred four thousand seventeen acres, 11 times over the burnt area in Cyprus. The average annual rainfall in Cyprus is five hundred millimetres - source from the official website of the Cypriot Government - in northern Evia the average annual rainfall is seven hundred millimetres. They are elements of the Athens National Observatory. When did the Cypriots start the anti-corrosion projects? -September 10th. When did we start the anti-corrosions in northern Evia? September 25th. Who is the type of intervention in Cyprus? Mild works, mainly wire boxes, so-called sarganette, on the beds of the rafts and cleansing of the rafts. What do we do? In us, in northern Evia, anti-corrosion works are stalks in the river basins, beatings in the ravine beds and constant mountainous hydronomial dams in the beds of the big ravines. At the same time, all the streams were cleaned in northern Evia and the dangers were cut, which became trees around these streams. Let's go now and see what's going on. In Limassol they're finished. In Larnaca, five of the sixteen points were completed. These projects will be completed at the end of November in Cyprus. Let's go see us in Lake. Anti-corrosion works are carried out there as all five studies of the whole burned area, with estimated completion in December. Finally November with early December. Antimillars are already assigned for one catchment basin, which is heavy and harder. The anti-corrosion works are now being carried out, today, in the three of the four regions, which the study suggests and is estimated to be completed in January. Anti-milling systems are already assigned for one catchment area, the most vulnerable. Now, about the little dams, because there's been a lot of talk. After you mentioning Parnitha, let us also draw from there the experience of anti-corrosioners with such small wires, which the Cypriots used - very well the Cypriots did because there the geomorphology, the gradients and the relief of the soil was different. So they were also used in Parnitha after the fire, as well as in Evia, in the south of Candide, in a fire in 2017, Mr. President. So that's where these barbed wires came in. You know what happened? In 2018 we had Zorba - if you remember - the great storm and the flood could not withstand the wire boxes, they broke and smashed the beds of the ravines with the material they had inside, that is, the stones. So I want to tell you that not all cases are comparable and similar. To conclude, therefore, we are interested in shielding the country from the flooding phenomena. Of course, where there is a burnt area, the flood will clearly have a multiplier force than if it were not the area affected by fire. We are running and thanks to the institution of the contractor we have accelerated procedures, we have found funding, which goes directly to the local communities, which are working on these projects and, above all, we are planning to prevent, Mr President, the next steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Now we will discuss the fourth question by number 51/8-10-2021 of the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Assessment of the employees with the notice of 3K/2018 of the ASAP". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is a matter which I have brought to plenary many times and which we have discussed together in April. Then you told me I didn't know the law. You referred to paragraph 4 of Article 32 of Law 4735. You have forgotten then to refer to paragraph 1 of the same law, which provides for compulsory assessment for the first half of the year of each employed worker. We are talking about the 3K, which took place in 2018, half were recruited in 2018 and the other half in 2019 with the final tables. So, in November 2019, half of them are hired - in the first half of 2018, let us forget them, it is okay, for the sake of the debate - to be evaluated at least in the first half of 2020. Come on in. The evaluation was not carried out in the first half of 2021. Aren't these people ever to be evaluated? Aren't the 3K workers ever going to be permanent? How many times will your law, the 2020 law, be violated? How many times will he be invaded? So we ask you how many people have been evaluated. The overseeing by you TAs why are they unable to complete the process? They claim that the Ministry does not give any clear instructions. What steps have you taken to ensure that workers who completed the two-year trial period from their appointment can be assessed and permanently simulated? Why in the circular issued by the Ministry you do not give instructions on paragraph 1, which defines the immediate evaluation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr. Voridis, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u132	Good evening and good week. Thank you very much, Mr President. Article 32(4) of Law 4735/2020 states that the evaluation reports of the 2019 evaluation period will be examined by the Special Evaluation Committees by 30-9-2021. Therefore, there is provision for 30-9-2021 for 2019. Right? That's what the law says. Also with the relevant legislative authority, which has been given, as you know or hope you know, these deadlines, due to the coronary were extended until 31 December 2021. Right? So, as a diligent Member, you know that, of course. You don't expect me to come and tell you. You know it. But I'm going a little bit to the numbers for the 3K evaluation. These workers are eight thousand hundred and thirty-two. Their assessment has been completed and a valid and comprehensive evaluation is under way for a thousand twenty-one, for seven thousand-11s there is no evaluation report, in five thousand eight hundred forty-six cases the required assessment period has not been completed, and in which case there is a coma in sixty-four cases not rated by the assessors or the relevant data from the management staff director concerned, in six hundred-sixty-one cases there is no data available in the register as to whether or not they have completed the required six-six-six-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-st-st-st-st-sixth-sixth-st-sixth-st-st-st-st-sixth-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st In these cases, however, where workers are unreservedly not assessed, the process of permanentisation is progressing. I think, therefore, that I have given you the full picture now so that we do not have to come back to this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arsenis, three minutes is a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you insist that you refer to paragraph 4 and you're a lawyer, that is, you know, reading the laws. You know very well that this was a transitional paragraph, which concerned a special situation that took place in the government of SYRIZA. The general paragraph relating to the rule is paragraph 1. What does paragraph 1 say? The evaluation shall be carried out within the first half of each year. Which means that for the year 2021 is due to the relevant bodies to proceed with the evaluation process of 2021. Half the people were hired in 2018. The other half in 2019. Both categories have been completed for two years. Let's say half the people who were hired in 2018 were completed. Half of the eight thousand are four thousand. How is it possible that they have not been permanently simulated? Is it possible to use a transitional provision, which is paragraph 4, concerning a special category and to forget the general rule? Is the special category pertaining to this 3K? Oh, no. Inadvertently used by this administration, this paragraph is the whole thing. It was a transition, involving a specific strike mobilisation, which had taken place during the SYRIZA period. It's not about the general rule. The general rule always comes first, as in all laws, as in paragraph 1. Specializations go below. You're the one who presses on in specialty so that this evaluation doesn't go ahead. Anyway, are you telling us that all the ongoing evaluations will be completed with the extension by December? The figures, however, do not come out in what you describe for those who have not completed the two-year period and those who have not completed the assessment obligation. I would like to hear your answer, and of course, we will continue because the next question is mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u135	Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u136	Look, in order to improve our legislation in the Chamber - not anything else - to say that the so-called lex specialis are always applied in relation to general arrangements. I am not saying that you should know them, but you have brilliant colleagues in your party, colleagues and MPs and lawyers to make it easier for you. Because, obviously, 4 is inconsistent and, in fact, the reasoning of the entire provision of 4 is - precisely because there were very long delays in evaluation in 2016, 2017 and 2018 - to set new deadlines, beyond this general provision, which remains a general guide. Therefore, exactly as a special law, 4 is coming and says ‘Review period 2016 and 2017: finalisation until 31 December 2020’, ‘Review period 2018: finalisation on 31 March’. ‘The evaluation reports for the period 2019 shall be considered by 30 September 2021 and by COVID on 31 December 2021.’. What don't you understand? You want to tell me that there is a general obligation for assessments to be carried out in a certain way, as provided for in paragraph 1. Sure. Paragraph 4, however, lays down specific periods. Now, that makes no sense to waste time explaining it in the House, because it is very simple things. So I come back saying this to you. You also use numbers, half of them differently. Do you have better information than my service? I have no information to tell you the truth, I have no information, because I have no access to files, and why I do not have time, of course, to sit down and look at one - one to see exactly when the paintings were finalized when they went to work. I have an agency that does this. The agency is doing this job. My service therefore states to Parliament that five thousand eight hundred forty-six cases have not been completed at the required time, so there is a closure of evaluation. Do you have any further information? Keep her in mind at the service to discuss it. Because that's what the evidence is about. I'm bound by it. I cannot inform you otherwise, because this is the information I have from my services, which I fully trust.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you both very much for the time. The eighth will be discussed under number 52/8-10-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The 1,900 organic gaps remain in the municipalities.” Mr. Arseni, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, just too soon for the services to say that for paragraph 1 you are referring to the years 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. I am referring to 2020. The special provision is repealed, because it is not about 2020. The assessment obligation for the first half of 2020 shall apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u139	Mr. Arseni, he'll have to answer you and it's the previous question. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u140	You promised that you would also proceed with the 3K line on the other positions. You said we couldn't have contractors and permanents. "I will answer you, I will go ahead, but you know we can't have contractors and permanents." Indeed, as we have committed ourselves, you are dismissing the contractors. The end of December ends the staff contracts for COVID in cleanliness, because 3K is cleanliness and even though we are through lock down, even though the need exists and perhaps it is growing, you are firing them off. You don't do the recruitments you announced. You're making the redundancies you announced. However, the continuation of the 3K to recruit permanent staff does not make them. What's going on here? How will the municipalities and regions of the country operate with such tragic gaps in human resources in the middle of COVID? Why don't you tell me that this pandemic is over when we have mini lockdowns and when we don't know if we're going to move on to bigger lockdowns. But you have announced that the CIVID contractors of cleanliness are finally fired as if the pandemic was over. So we want you to explain how it is finally possible, when you announced that you are dismissing contractors and you will be permanent, sacking contractors and not hiring permanents. Of course, don't tell us about the forty-one thousand recruits you have announced. These concern jobs other than cleaning. We're talking about cleanliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u141	Thank you. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr. Voridis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I don't know which phrase you're using. The words 'dismissal' shall require the termination of an active contract of employment. I am not going to report any complaints of an active contract of employment. We're not talking about that. Unless you're dismissing the termination of fixedterm contracts. So, in your view, anyone who concludes a fixed-term contract with the public has been and has been hired relentlessly? Right? Someone hired for an eight-month period, and if the contract expires in the eight-month period, you say that this is dismissal, because it should be continuously extended. Right? Because otherwise, the fixed-term contract expires.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u143	However, there have been redundancies in the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u144	Please, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u145	With great pleasure, to respond to what you want, just not irrelevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u146	It's relative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u147	So, do I repeat the view of Mera25 is that fixed-term contracts must be extended relentlessly? I would like to inform you that there is a constitutional coma in this regard. You know that? Do you know why the Constitution forbids this? Because the Constitution defines a specific way in which permanent civil servants are recruited. Have you heard anything about this? Do you know why this is happening? It's for there to be integrity in the recruitment process. So you connect contracts, which are time-limited and are fully linked to the existence of specific needs, with their eternal prolongation. These are the contracts that have been hired to deal with the coronary. I said that these conventions expire on 31-12-20 - I stress that they expire, they are not interrupted and they are not denounced, but their time is running out - and they will not be renewed. That's what I said. So I answered you. With regard to the 3K recruitment, I would like to say the following to end this as well. The answer is that in the programming of recruitment this year we have given priority to what we consider to be the absolutely urgent and imperative needs of local authorities, namely the recruitment of engineers. Thousand engineers, after the specific procedures have been carried out in the AACC, expect and have planned to be able to sit in their seats according to registered recruitment plans until March 2022. We've naturally also given intakes for financial expertise and intakes for IT. In other words, where there really is a picture of the development role of local authorities, they will be invited to play this role in relation to the overall effort made by the country and local authorities. We have chosen to shield the local authorities with such staff, and this is therefore to plan recruitments for 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, obviously, you want to avoid answering this question, which is whether or not the use of dismissal is correct. Look, it's a special purpose contract for an extraordinary reason, for COVID, and you end it without renewing it in any way, hiring other people or whatever you think is right on the basis of your logic. We consider that these people must be permanent, mobilised and recruited through ADP as a follow-up to the 3K. That should be the case. But what was the special reason for it? It was the coronary epidemic. Is it over? Do you know that in December we will be done with the coronary and will you announce that there will be no renewal of the contracts and that there will be no emergency staff for the coronary in cleanliness? Are you telling us that the cleaning workers aren't productive for the municipalities? That's what you told us. That you will hire people who are productive for the development of the municipalities, i.e. engineers, etc. Is cleanliness a non-productive activity for you, Minister? In any case, we committed ourselves to the timely question of April - I read from the Minutes - on the issue of the openness of the notice, of the 3K: 'I am committed to you in order to deal with this issue. And the time I commit to you in order to deal with this issue is September of this year.' It was April 2021. Now we're in October 2021. September's passed. That's why I'm in charge of how you're fired without hiring. How are you interrupting the contractors, without re-entering them as permanent, not automatically, but with the moleculation provided by the law. This self-evident is what I ask you to do in a country that is in the midst of a pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u150	Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u151	The impoverishment of the arguments must not lead to a distortion of what is said. Make better efforts on the dialectic level. This means that, obviously, I did not say that any worker is not productive. But I told you what the productive priorities we put forward are. That doesn't mean that the rest don't do anything productive. It's important to set productive priorities. I have therefore made it clear what the productive priorities are. Local government bodies as a development tool in an effort which the country as a whole is making to make use of important funds and important financial instruments that exist for the first time. And local authorities, through the "Antonis Tritsis" programme and through the Recovery Fund and through the new NSRF, have a lot of money, which must be "driven" because these are transformed into projects and because these projects are for the benefit of the citizens. So I told you the priority, not something else. The other one is yours. I'm coming from now on. What did I tell you about what you invoke? That I'm going to clarify the landscape about the recruitments to the municipalities, so specifically about the 3K, September. That's right. And so I do. Recruitment planning. Recruitment planning has been confirmed by an act of the Ministerial Council on 5 September and includes the specific priorities I mentioned to you. What am I inconsistent with? So I told you that it would be clear to plan recruitment and recruitment priorities have been reflected there. We employ the municipalities as a priority people of university education and technology in order for the municipalities to perform their development role. These are the recruitments we've scheduled for 2022. So, I'm absolutely consistent with what I've told you, just maybe you don't like the programming I'm planning. That's your right. But I'm not inconsistent. We have other perceptions of what is a productive need at this stage, which must be served. These are the productive needs that exist, I have set out to you, are linked to the overall development plan and programme and effort that the country is making.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arsenis informed me that the evidence has been sent to you since 24 September. Now see what path they're going on. We now go to the topical questions which, after consultation, will not be discussed and which are the following: The third, with number 58/11-10-2021, is a topical question for the Achaias Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The redundancies of thirty-six workers in the Greek Arms Industry (EBO) in Agios". The Fifteenth, with number 54/10-10-2021, is a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion, Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Let the Government clarify the intentions of the Private Property Assessment Fund for the Airport of Nikos Kazantzakis" Heraklion. The ninth Ninth with number 488/8-10-2021 topical question by MP 2 West Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Catholic Depreciation of Public Defence Industry through the vertical decline in the production of all the factories of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) and the mass redundancies of the modern factories of Egypt". Finally, the eighteenth Question No 56/11-10-2021 will not be discussed in the eighth session of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water supply and sewerage". We continue with the thirteenth, with number 46/8-10-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the Parliamentary B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Protection of the Citizen in West Athens". Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, once again we are here to discuss issues relating to your ministry. I have to say that in the question we are presenting today and wanting to be discussed, we were waiting for the Minister responsible, Mr Theodorikos, to come, but I think that you as the State Secretary and coming from the innard of the Greek Police, clearly will be able to answer the questions that we ask you more specifically. In fact, the government of Mr Mitsotakis came out and came to the government of the country with a motto of 'civil security'. But what is the reality? Is that true? Is there the security of the citizen? Mr Mitsotakis at his meeting with mayors in the West Attica - the question concerns Western Athens - he said there are problems. In fact, the point is to heal these problems. There are problems of infringibility, minor crime, etc. I would add that in West Athens, involving seven municipalities and around nine hundred thousands of inhabitants, there are serious issues and safety issues. Day after day, in the pigeon, we have gunshots. I have here some specific dates both on 5 September and on 17 June and on 5 August we had incidents with injuries. But all this has to do with patrolling, it has to do with whether the Greek Police are in place to ensure the security of citizens. Because your government's policy, much too much we know, is experiencing it by the Greek people, is more concerned with repression than with the effective protection of the citizen. Having returned the police department in West Athens, I can surely say that about their organic power is stationed at about 50%, I would say 40%. This has serious consequences for the protection of citizens and residents, but it has serious consequences, and for not patrolling especially at night and some areas in western Athens may also be more dangerous. No patrols, because there's no staff. When Mr Theodorikos took over in a week - I had tabled the question at the time, because he was from September - he made some announcements. In particular, he spoke of a thousand and twenty - six people serving police departments and the Greek Police, of which three hundred six will be from the schools and the other seven hundred twenty will be cadets. You, as a nurse in the Greek Police, Mr. Economou, are well aware that the cadet policeman can't do any patrol, he must be third in the patrol or viewing himself. It's just to train and monitor. How do you then speak of support with a thousand and twenty - six police officers, of which seven hundred twenty are children who are actually trained? This is a very serious matter. At the same time, fifty people go to the MATs, which could be used by these people in police stations. So, how do you see this thing solved? How is it really ensured, the security of the West Athens citizen in this regard and in general when, at the moment, Illio police station two came from school, and both are transferred when the totality and percentages of the organic positions in all parts of western Athens are around 40% minus? What are you thinking of doing from here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kafantari. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes at your disposal. I would ask you to keep them, because your answers usually get out of hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on this topical question is an opportunity to inform our citizens and, in particular, our fellow citizens who live in the West Atlantic area of initiatives, which the government is already developing in the direction of consolidating the sense of security for those who live there, but also in the wider sense of the people of Lecanopdi. So, since November 1st, they will be serving in the police stations of Attica a thousand and twenty - six more police officers. Every night there will be a hundred extra patrols on the streets of the neighborhoods from just thirty that are today, because at Attica, we have 70% of crime and 30% of our forces. The locations started on October 4th and are under way. With regard to the reasons that have led to the number of police officers serving in the services being a deficit, mentioned in Mrs Kafantari's question, there has been a lot of debate in this Chamber. They are abstractly due to the exceptionally reduced recruitment of police personnel in previous years since 2010 and from now on, to the disproportionately large number of departures of personnel from the Hellenic Police Corps during the last two years due to retirement, to the extraordinary and necessary distribution of a large number of police forces at land borders, Evros, islands with a view to dealing with the huge number of migration flows and the asymmetrical threat that our country has continued to face over the last two years, but necessary on a daily basis as from March 2020 and now police officers allocated to a thousand eighteen hundred with nine-and-a-half workshops throughout the territory with a view to the mandate of ELAS by the state, the checks for the implementation of the measures on pandemic and with a view to maintaining social cohesion. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But let us look at reality more carefully in the West Attica. Already on October 4th, 2021, three hundred newcomers were placed in the Attica Police Directorate at the Western Attica Police Department, with thirty-four of them at the Western Attica Police Department for disposing of their service needs for the purpose of more complete staffing of their services. At the same time, there is also a special project drawn up by the Directorate-General for Police at Attica as a whole for the West Attica. Already a month ago, eighty new patrols were provided to the Directorate-General for Police at Attica, while the supply of fifteen new vehicles specially designed to cover and provide better safety conditions for personnel, which is called on to transfer people vulnerable to different forms of risk, such as potentially suffering from COVID from another series of infectious diseases, has already been completed. Also, by the end of the year, additional thirteen new patrols are to be given to the immediate action of Attica and Thessaloniki in order to strengthen policing in the areas of greater crime. However, at this point I would like to point out that in the very near future the citizens throughout the Greek territory and hence the citizens of the Western Attica will feel more security in understanding the presence of police officers in every neighbourhood, which is expected to happen with the release of forces from their unnecessary red tape to office work within police departments and agencies. This will be the case immediately with the implementation of the priority strategy, the extensive digitisation of the Greek Police services on the basis of a specific timetable for the changes that will take place in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance. Thousands of policemen will be released from objects such as bureaucratic jobs, which are not their real mission as police officers and will be shot in the police force of the neighborhoods, with emphasis on areas of high infraction, such as in the West Attica. It has already been announced that 1-1-2022 is abolishing the authentication of the signature in the police departments. Mr President, I will be very brief in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u156	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u157	At the same time, the cooperation of ELAS with local communities and local government is being strengthened to address modern problems, such as the phenomenon of domestic violence, which have been multiplied in the midst of the pandemic. The structures are being reorganised and in a reasonable period of better coordination of Greek Police services in order to deal with pathogens and distortions of decades. Finally, in cooperation with local government, and in particular with the critical municipalities of Western Attica, new operational plans to combat crime are being drawn up in the areas of excavation. There have been numerous meetings with the local mayors. I am thinking, for example, of dealing with crime in the West Attica. As a sign of the great importance the government and the Ministry attaching to this issue on 28 September 2021 in the Municipality of Acharnon, a wide meeting was held in which the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, attended with the Chief of Greek Police and a number of other service actors were examined, where overall safety issues of this city and the wider region were examined. Ladies and gentlemen, security for all with Police present in all neighbourhoods, citizens-friendly and effective against the crime is what we embassy and for which we work on a daily basis. With this policy, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Theodorikos, began his visits to the police departments, beginning with West Attica. On September 3 with the chief, as you already know, he visited the Peristeri Police Department and the Egyptian Prime Minister Police Department to determine the real needs in the context of the Special Operational Plan for the West Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u159	Mr President, once again we have heard a wish: 'I will,'. First of all, I will tell you that the question concerns western Athens and not Western Attica. I am well aware that the police department is West Attica and that is where the departments of West Athens are. But I will say that two years ago they were serving around five hundred and fifty with six hundred. Now there are four hundred fifty in West Attica - I stress this - and, as you have said, thirty-four. On the other hand, I'll say numbers. With figures twenty days ago, in the pigeon from the forty places that exist twenty - five were present. And I've been riding out of sixty-seven. Minister, how can they police in the sense of protecting citizens against violations at night, etc., when there is no patrol? And I say this clearly. We saw patrols - and I myself - at the Aigelo Police Department, but they cannot work because there is no staff. As you can see, the situation is completely different from the one you are presenting. However, I will say some things on the basis of the evidence available for western Athens in particular. The first section of the perimeter is placed four, no one is transferred. In 2nd District no one is placed, one is leaving. Two new colleagues are coming to Illion, however, two are leaving. In Aigleus come three, one leaves and another one moves from another service. In the St. Anargiros and Cameroon, no one comes, they leave two and one from another service. In Petroupoli one is coming. In Haidari one's leaving, one's coming. Agia Varvara comes four and no one moves. This situation really needs to be changed. In central services, how many police officers can't serve the police department? Where are various police officers seconded when the police department "shoots"? Not to mention the security department, which is even more difficult. You have not answered me from now on, Minister, although I think you are aware of it by service. You have no argument, and that is why you are not answering it. What are the cops doing? Can they send a patrol department? Can they be on a guard? These people learn and get into a patrol car must be the third cadet. So it takes two more definitely to run a patrol car and patrol. So don't give us any impressive numbers. Not to say that with these people you save as a state, as a state, as a ministry, because they are paid in elementarily, more than 300 euros a month. They're apprentices. These questions we want to answer. And we believe that in order to restore people's confidence in the Greek Police, because unfortunately we are experiencing situations of repression and only in a number of cases that we have experienced and are seeing in the last two years, the ordinary citizen must feel that the policeman is protecting him from infraction, that he can circulate at night to go home or go somewhere else and not be in danger. And that's what it takes for police forces and for the police department. But I'm afraid you're not thinking in this direction. You have made new police, whether they are called "border guards" or "WHO" or otherwise, and recruitments with a logic of repressive social reactions and not the essential, if you like, protection of the citizen, which also applies to western Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your dentistry. You made me a promise before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not hiding the problems under the carpet, we are dealing with them. And the last two years in terms of strengthening the Greek staff and media police are the undisputed witness. And all because we want to be able to look the public in the eye. For us, it's not an alibi what previous people did. For the Government of the New Democracy guide is the commitment of Mr Mitsotakis to the security of the citizen. That's the bar. Our policy is only five words 'Security for all, security everywhere'. A commitment we make thanks to the efforts of the women and men of the Greek Police, who every day testify to the best of themselves, to be next to the citizen, to act dissuasively or to be at the forefront of every criminal. For our part, we are looking forward to giving them as many resources as possible. We create, we build day after day a Greek Police which will be friendly to the citizens and young people, a sick and present alongside the citizen, in order to protect the rights of Greek society, the maintenance of social cohesion, the security of all citizens living in the country, but at the same time hard and effective in crime of any kind and in any place. The direct objectives of the State and especially of the Ministry of Civil Protection are to continuously strengthen police cooperation with leadership, local government bodies and municipal police, in order to improve the sense of civil security in every neighbourhood. For this reason, as you referred to Peristeri, a meeting was already held with the Mayors of Peristeri and Aspropyrgos Andreas Pachatouridis and Nikolaos Study, in order to reflect the true picture of the crime in their municipalities and the need for policing in each area, in order to find the most suitable solutions that, through joint cooperation between all parties, Hellenic Police, the Ministry of Civil Protection, local government, could lead to the best possible outcome in the interests of the security of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are daily promoting a coherent grid of policies that respond to the citizens' request to strengthen the sense of security in their neighbourhood and where we need to reorient resources and forces with reference to modern times, with emphasis on the needs that this brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Economou. We continue with our first question under number 39/6-10-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingpoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Revision of a decision approving a grant decision of the Scientific Society for Study of Vladow Culture". Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Good week to you, too. Minister, on July 13, by decision of your own, the proposal submitted by the Scientific Society of Study of the Culture of Vlachs for Digitalisation, a proposal concerning the creation of a digital monumental database of the Greek Vlachs' speech, was adopted. It was adopted on a solemn basis and, in fact, in the statement of approval, it refers, among other bilirums, to the proposal and is supported by a group of experts. Two months later, on 24 September, the Ministry returns to a decision of its own which was assessed by a scientific committee of very important scientists and gives a corrective decision of your decision, which will no longer approve the programme, the company's proposal, without any justification. The reason why we only find it a week ago in the question asked by Mr Criton - Ilias Arsenis of the party of Merra25. You have not responded to the scientific committee which sent you a letter and so on, you have not responded to the artworks that were in existence and to the "HAYRIDE OF THE CONSTITUTION" and "KATHIMERIN" and "AGE”. You have at least answered parliamentary control. That's where you told us a lot of weird things, Mrs. Mendoni. First one. You have confronted a scientific committee with cultural associations. Since when is science judged by such criteria? Since when is the proposal of a scientific committee of Greek scientists - I insist - is approved or rejected on the basis of whether cultural clubs agree? I, that is, tomorrow, as a historian, if I make a scientific proposal for Asia Minor, must agree on the cultural clubs for Asia Minor. So please invoke these clubs. Second. You're saying they don't. Minister, we're walking here, moving on very dangerous paths. Since when does scientific research need to be represented, and indeed the majority, as is mentioned by a hundred and twenty of a cultural club? I don't know what those cultural clubs are. Third, Minister. Another great stumbling in your answer. You see, and indeed you adopt, the concept that some people have that there is no Vlach language and that it is an idiom. And I ask you here, why are we going on dangerous paths of the past: which language is a idiom? I want an answer. Fourthly and more importantly. In your answer you say, among other things, that "if we adopted this proposal which does not express the majority of cultural clubs, then they..." - the Vlachs mean - "they would define themselves." Do we now arrive and leave suspicions of anti-national actors, in other words scientists whose scientific research can lead to situations that are not good? One last thing, Minister. Most members of the board of directors of the Nationalist and Folklore Museum of Macedonia - Thrace have resigned by denouncing underground routes within the museum of people who appear as self-devoting defenders of the nation - no nation has invited them to do so - and pressing the members who have been forced to resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u164	That's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u165	I have written it in the question, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u166	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u167	So here, because they are transporting these containers, you need to take a position and do not seem - it seems from your previous answer - that you are identified in terms of too dangerous and dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, good evening, good week. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk a little bit longer, if I have to. This is where Mrs. Anagnostopoulou tripled the time. Ma'am, the Scientific Society for Studying Vlach Culture is a union. There is no scientific company as it stands for scientific companies. It follows from its statute that it is a union with the aim, in accordance with its statute, of research, recording and studying all forms of Vlach culture, with emphasis on language and geographical varieties. Greece, whether we like it or not, for decades now there have been clubs and unions and Vlach fraternities - unions, like the so-called scientific firm - whose members are obviously scientists. This could have escaped you. A significant number of such collections therefore proceeded with the establishment of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Cultural Associations of Vlachs, which has many members, I repeat, many of whom are just as good scientists, such as the club called the Scientific Society. The Panhellenic Federation of Vlach Associations, representing almost all the Vlach clubs in Greece as a cultural institution, fully expresses the opinion that Vlach is the whole of the local dialects of an unconsolidated and unconsolidated oral language and that there is no uniform form commonly accepted by all the Vlach groups. In this context, therefore, the proposal of the association called the Scientific Society to create a digital monumental database of the Greek Vlach speech is one aspect of the subject. However, in view of the fact that digitisation, as the representatives of the Society of the Scientific Society have said, is the first systematic record of the intangible cultural heritage of the Vlachs and will henceforth be a reference both scientifically and educationalally. It is appropriate to constitute a product of wide-ranging representation of Vlachs, to result through joint acceptance procedures, committees and methods and to truly constitute a scientific self-determination of all Greek Vlachs. The only way to approach the issue from one section is to create tensions - and I repeat it - between most of the associations of questioning scientific methods - scientific methods are called into question here - and the conclusions are called into question. The non-subsidisation of the proposal was the consequence of the assessment of the insufficient representativeness of the proposal in relation to the multiple number of clubs and clubs of Vlachs, which was considered necessary for an issue of such importance and sensitivity. Don't look for dark powers. Now, because in your question you also raise the issue of the administrative board of the Folk Ethnic Museum of Macedonia - Thrace, first of all, with reference to the issue of resignation, I would like to make it clear that any correlation between this issue and the non-subsidisation of the Vlachs is empirically unfortunate, unsatisfactory. The resignation of the board of directors of the LAMD became, as they themselves denounced, because of the undermining of the work and the decisions of the administration by individuals in the museum that operated - they call it "self-indicated patriots". Obviously, this is an issue that was before, it was not suddenly created and it is obviously not related to the issue of the grant of the Vlach union. Why do you associate the two topics are worthy of wonder. In addition, the complaints made by the outgoing board of this body came to the attention of the Ministry and me for the first time by letter of resignation, despite the fact that the members were placed on the board of directors from your own government and remained until they resigned. Previously, during the previous two months, they had not raised such matters. This suddenly comes after the association's non-subsidisation. Look, we all understand that the correlation between two completely irrelevant issues between them on the basis of one fact - that Vassilis Nitsiakos, other than that he is the chairman of the Society of Scientific Study, was also the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Folk Ethnological Museum of Macedonia - Thrace - is beyond artificially created and politically propagandaist, and leads, inevitably, to the work of a public office, such as the chairman of a board of directors of a government supervised by the Ministry - so also the Greek public - in order to serve private ordinances of a union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I heard from the Minister the same thing that he said to Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni, and I would like to ask you this: did you know in July 2021 that there were these clubs? You knew there were other clubs, etc.Huh? You have decided to finance the programme submitted, which is signed by a programme entitled ‘Digital monuments database of the Vlach speech’. What's a union? I am interested, Minister, that it is Greek and two hundred years after the Greek Revolution the Greek nation has the confidence to say that it has a variety of intangible cultural heritage, that Vlachs are a constituent and a complex element of the Greek nation and has nothing to fear. At other times he was afraid, at other times he saw anti-national actors. Well, to say things by their name: Approve this proposal with bibrains, saying, in fact, - I have the paper here, your decision - in addition to all other things, that it is very good, 'an indication of the pluralistic nature of Greece's intangible cultural heritage', that it is supported by a team of experts - you recognize this -, Greek scientists who decide to deal with a subject. I will not say here in the Greek Parliament who are the clubs of the Vlachs and what they are doing and what they are building. A group of Greek scientists is tabling a programme on such a subject. I will not add too much and find it completely inconsistent at this stage we are discussing, to deal with Mr Nichakos, the way you have dealt with him, with a well-established Greek scientist - Greek I insist, as is all the others - and to say what you have said about private interests and all that. Why are they connected, Minister? Because we see that from July when you adopted the programme, which has been tabled, until September and so far, there are some underground routes of enormous pressure that appear not only to be in the programme, they also reach the museum because they are the same people who do - and they recognise it - had no problem in the museum either from your own leadership or from our own leadership. What dark forces have you - dark or dark, I don't care, self-invited saviors of the nation - allowed this pressure and undo your own decision? I will conclude with three proposals - if you will allow me for a minute, Mr President - by the article of a person who cannot be accused of SYRIZA. And now you're not answering SYRIZA. You're responding to society. "The determination..." - writes - "a society does not come with the Golden Dawn. That is the result of the determination. The "blood, honor..." etc. It is a product of chronic teachings and political decisions such as Ms. Mendoni who have considered whole regions of historical knowledge in the name of sensitivity to some who have designated themselves as representatives of society." Pale Mandravelis in “KATHMERINI”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, the importance and the offering of the Vlachs - and I shall return to that - in my reply to Mr Arsenis, which was at least twice invoked by the honourable Member. So I do not think anyone is questioning this issue. I also had no intention of dealing with Mr Nitsiaco, with whom I must say that I had a very good cooperation as President of the LGMD. The honourable Member has mistaken two different things for her own purposes. The argument you are using is politically incomplete - you may not agree, so I appreciate it - and it does not even mention the full and actual facts of the case. I understand the effort you are making to criticise me. It's legitimate. I understand your agony to cut out what you consider to be a political benefit to your party by raising on major political issues two completely irrelevant issues to each other, which we have said: the non-approval of the grant and the resignation of some - not all - of some, some members of the LGMD. So here, I'm going to tell you an inaccuracy. There are others in the resignation text, but we do not have time. We could do a very great deal of analysis, because it seems that it is shown that a number of texts, which were in the printing press, are being translated by reports from officials, that the list of directors had not even been deposited in the printing press. Let it be. They're too many other such inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u174	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u175	The Minister didn't interrupt you. You're not soundin' anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u176	In addition, I would like to point out that we should not confuse the status of any chairman of a private association with the chairman of the board of directors of a legal person governed by public law even if the natural person is the same person supervised by the State and in this case by the Ministry of Culture. It's two completely different and distinct things. It is, in fact, regrettable for a legal person governed by public law and an important institution such as this museum, to work to serve political purposes and divident propaganda. Because that's what's going on. Conservation of the prestige of the museum, but also of all workers, should be a key political priority for all. It also makes it clear that if the museum administration did have internal problems undermining its work, it should have notified the Ministry either on a service level or on a timely basis rather than waiting to find some pretext. What's that? The failure to approve the grant of the Association of Scientific Society for Study of Vlach Culture in order to give up what climate they create in the museum itself and, in fact, in their letter of resignation, to mention the words "... ratification of the opinions of individuals and institutions categorizing persons and actions in patriotic and non-patriotic". What are these things? Where are we, to turn your question back? The ones in the small world of the museum. As regards the Vlachs, I said to Mr Arsenis, I repeat very closely: the Vlachs are a population group that shaped into modern Greek consciousness, maintaining their own special features and contributing substantially to the formation of the modern Greek state as an integral part of the Greek society. Any approach, how rather the creation of a digital database of monuments of the Greek Vlach speech by a single club that does not represent the totality or a large part, anyway, of the Greek Vlachs, poses a risk of heterogeneous identification of the latter - I repeat - even if scientifically documented methods and techniques are applied. Obviously, there would be no objection - and I do not understand what the problem is - the association called the Scientific Society or many others to come together and submit a broader proposal. Obviously we do not need to insist more that Vlachs are an integral part and a major chapter in modern Greek history. I have answered Mr Arsenis in the same way to you. Just because we respect the history and culture of the Vlachs, I do not want the Ministry of Culture to be the cause of polarization between them. Because you may not have been informed, but already since the publication of the proposal and only the scientific company had objections and there was a serious scientific representative. And that's what the state has to take into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Mendoni. Have a good day to both of you. Subsequent to the second question, under number 55/11-10-2021, on the second question from the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘What will happen with the PAL contracts of officials of hospitals ending at 31/12-2021’. Mr. Poula, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on December 31, 2021, the fixed-time contracts of personnel serving in the care, feeding and cleaning of hospitals in the country, including the General Hospital of Argolida and so far your Ministry has not given instructions on how to cover these jobs with the new year. We would remind you that in September 2019 the Ministry of Health sent a document to the hospitals of the country on ‘to implement health supply and service programmes’, which was given the mandate before taking a decision on such services, hospitals to examine one of the three alternative ways of dealing with either of the provisions of Article 63 of Law 4430/2016 or in accordance with Article 3 of Law 4542/2018 or in accordance with the procurement legislation on the basis of the public financial benefit. On the basis of this document, the Board of Directors of the General Hospital of Argolida decided to proceed with the conclusion of individual fixed-term work contracts for one year from 1-1-2020 to 31-12-2020. After the 15-9-2020 it was published in FEK 177 Volume I, No 4722. Article 45 states that fixed-term contracts implemented under Article 63 of Law 4430/2016 by which personnel serving at the central service and the supervisory bodies of the Ministry of Health in the fields of nutrition and cleaning may, on a case-by-case basis, be extended until 31/12-2021. The hospital therefore extended these contracts until 31/12-2021. Since they are now ending, I ask you: what is your intention to extend fixed-term contracts for personnel employed in the preservation, feeding and cleaning of hospitals? And secondly, how do you plan to meet these needs to hospital staff with the new year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Poula. The Minister of Health, Athanasios, will answer. Mr. Flouris, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u180	Good morning, Mr. President. I was particularly interested in seeing the previous question, because I was attracted to my mother's origin as Vlach from Avdela Grevenons, so the debate that followed was very interesting. Mr Colleagues, we need to separate a few issues in your question because there is a confusion in total for subsidiary staff and for the NO. For subsidiary staff - as you have seen - we have extended their contracts until March and, respectively, we are giving the possibility by means of notices which have been or are constantly coming out and which will come out - as for the four thousand to come out of the next few weeks for nursing staff and nine hundred and ten places for the other medical staff - and with a special moleculation to cover these posts. This does not include the IOCs that had been in a process since the beginning to operate for a certain period of time and for specific needs to serve. How is the framework now? At the moment, hospitals which operate either as long as the Ministry of Health prolongs these contracts to be able to extend them or their choice to try to find other alternatives on the basis of the possibilities of the existing budgets, i.e. addressing them with competitive procedures. If they go to recruitment under the recruitment process, they will automatically deprive the recruitment process which we have for 2021 and 2022. As long as procedures are not completed in order to provide alternatives, extensions will be possible if necessary by hospitals. But we are clear at the outset - because there is a great deal of talk - that here we are not talking about people who come to cover positions like the assistants with the notices they come out. If there was a desire from hospitals to go to permanent staff of such a nature, it meant that it would deprive other staff that it needs in hospitals. Alternatives exist in hospitals based on the extensions we give. There have been hospitals who have made a choice to go to other employment relationships that they feel are more interesting with the possibility of moving through competitive procedures. Similarly, as you yourself said, the hospital of Argolida has twelve security personnel, sixteen cleanliness and five persons in the focus. At the moment, also the Ministry's will, may be given another extension to cover gaps. But we are not talking about extensions which will be of a definitive nature. We're talking about extensions so that the hospitals themselves can choose alternatives to keep the places. What we can assure you is that there is no way any hospital can do without service. As long as necessary, there will be alternative extension procedures. But it is not in the will to lead us to conditions such as the conditions in which we choose and try to do through subsidiary staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Poulas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u182	Minister, if I understood correctly, we are not talking here about the assistants. Subsidiaries are a completely different category. We are talking about fixed-term contracts here. Hospitals have been hired under the law adopted by the SYRIZA Government, which has a one-year contract. Now, from what I understand, you think there should be a competitive procedure through contractors. That's what I understand. So if you go to this contractor's model, you must first and foremost give it in writing, that is to say, send it with a circular to hospitals to proceed with the implementation of this contraction. Do not let it hover, but really take responsibility and say we go to hire via contractors. Because that involves other things. First of all, it's the cost. Have you now calculated that for this staff this Argos hospital is costing 320,000 euros? So if you hire a contractor, the cost will be three times, and I'm sure what I'm telling you is. If you do a market investigation, you'll see, you'll find out. So think that the hospital budgets will be greatly increased by this kind of choice. Because I believe that those people who said they were hired with the previous convention can and will carry out their duties, even in the pandemic. These people were ahead. The care not only took care of the hospitals, and the incidents about who's going in and who's not in, who's COVID and who's not. They did other tasks, raised the phones. The phones were in trouble and the waitress went and they got up. There are other problems. And especially with focus and cleanliness, it is not the people who, until yesterday's day, had to say "go" to a contractor who will bring his own people. We're not saying you have to permanently simulate them, and we think that the way you go about it, you're going in the wrong line. These people should stay, because, first and foremost, in these hospitals they serve lasting and constant needs. In other words, it has all been known that people who are in custody, feeding and cleansing are people who meet constant and constant needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Poula. Mr. Flouris, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u184	Mr. Poula, the possibilities that exist are simple. There are two possibilities. We are talking about a comprehensive solution, about knowing what we are talking about. It is the possibility for hospitals, if they choose to go to an external partner racing or via ASP to request the opening of the seats and cover these seats. There are no longer any possibilities for a fixed-term staff to remain with continuous renewables. And I believe that no one supports this here, because obviously no one can support provisions which are inconsistent with the Constitution. For fixed-term contracts, it has a specific framework that may exist. From there on, or goes out, if the hospital asks, through ASA to be covered with an intake of this position - one option - but this means that they are also reduced by the overall design of recruitments, or competitions can ask for these services. What is more economic or not, obviously these bodies can assess it and at the moment that we are talking about this possibility has been given to these bodies. For it was not compulsory to extend these conventions. Any hospital he has used and there have been hospitals that have searched for other alternatives and are driven to competitive procedures or like the Argolida hospital, which you rightly said he chose to do for a year. There will be no problem in this hospital as well. An extension will be granted, if necessary and cannot be met otherwise. Overall, however - and this is clear - the solution to the problem will not be continuous extensions of fixed-term contracts against the spirit of the Constitution. Whether these positions will be announced and via ASP, these positions will be covered, or otherwise they will become an internal partner. It is at the full discretion of each hospital to choose how he wants to fill his gaps for these locations. What I can assure you is that there is no way for there to be a gap in the provision of services and for the specific hospital you ask about, the General Hospital of Argolidas, but also in general for any other hospital. However, fixed-term contracts are fixed-term contracts. If we want to go to permanent posts, these will be done through ASPs and specific notices. Otherwise, there will always be the choice of the external partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u185	Oh, very good! You should come back again. But you remain in your position. There has been an internal change from SYRIZA, Minister. Mr. Triantafylides will be speaking now. We will discuss the 20th second question, number 60/11-10-2021, of the second question of the Greek MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Re-emerging the phenomenon of intertwined outside of the hospitals in Thessaloniki - For another year, undisturbed health in the city". Mr. Triantafylides, welcome. Good week. Good evening. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. And I thank Andreas Blonde for his priority. Allow me, before I begin to ask the Minister, to wish a quick, rapid recovery in both births and Dora Bakoyannis on the basis of the announcements made. I hope - and I think it is resentful and unanimous that all of us should wish them - courage and strength in this struggle that we hope will win. Minister, on October 3, I received a complaint from two Coronovirus patients who were hospitalized outside the hospital "Papanikolaou" in Thessaloniki. A few hours after my public complaint at the ERT for the two patients, the Director of the III University Clinic at the Papageorgiou Hospital, Mr. Vassilis Kotsis revealed that this was also the case at the hospital of Papageorgiou. All IF beds are full, while patients are intubated and intersected in other hospitals in northern Greece, he said. I am making the relevant statement from Mr Kotsis in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Two days later the president of the WTO talked about incidents that were transferred to neighbouring prefectures, even in Iannina. And the evidence he provided is indicative of the tragic situation in the hospitals of my city, Thessaloniki. Last spring during the peak of the third wave, Thessaloniki had a hundred ninety-three beds of METH COVID and another about forty non COVID, a total of two hundred and thirty-three. Today there are only seventy - five intensive beds for coronary and another seventy - five for other incidents, a total of one hundred fifty. That's what Mr. Giannakos said. From two hundred thirty three in the spring to fifty today. Why, Minister? What happened to the new ICUs? Exhausted? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In the morning, the Prime Minister told you that the new ICUs will stay and then COVID by emphatically saying "See the ICUs we have built". Where did the eighty-three more ICUs operate in the spring? I make Mr Giannakou's statements in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On their limits are the hospitals of Thessaloniki with one quarter of the patient's traffic. ID's at 100%. The pressure's too high. The cry of agony by Mr. Capravelo. "We are in a process of growth and not stabilisation. The system has no other endurance. Relaxation and most of the freedoms gave the wrong message," he said. And I now come to the monument of analgesia and conscious abandonment of the ESS at the Papanikolaou Hospital. Mr. Mitsotakis opened eighteen IF beds on April 24, following the Commission's donation to Greece 2021. From March 24th, that is, about seven months ago, the 3rd Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked you, in writing, for the necessary human resources to be used for the new ICMs. But you announced these positions just a month ago and the submission of applications ended last Friday 8 October. Why? The eighteen new IF beds remained inactive, as there was no permanent health staff to serve them. Finally, half of the eighteen are operated by the known method followed by the Mitsotakis Government, namely the transport of personnel from other hospitals, in this case from the "Genemata" and the "Saint Dimitrios". So, what are you doing? You weaken other hospitals to operate beds that should work with permanent staff. I mean, without recruitment, with less people after suspensions, you want to operate more units. Why? Because it's simple. You don't believe in S.H.I.E.L.D. "I am shocked and surprised, I am sorry for the eighteen inactive beds," said Mrs Angelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u187	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u188	I'll be done. And Mr. Mitsotakis had the nerve in Thessalonica...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u189	In your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u190	I shall conclude, Mr President. He confessed to the House that his government was wrong to inaugurate them without proclaiming the positions for permanent staff. If they were declared in April when they were inaugurated, the staff would now be in their place. And I'm closing up with today's sensational revelation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u191	You'll have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u192	To answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u193	You'll have a second one and you'll answer later. Wait a minute, Mr. Triantafylides. You've spoken for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u194	Mr President, all the previous Members have spoken much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u195	I do not know what previous colleagues have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u196	Let me just close the last thing I'm going to reveal...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u197	But I told you something. You'll have a second. You'll do your dentistry and the Minister will answer again. You're in four and a half minutes. Please! You'll talk in dentistry again, and the Minister will talk in time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u198	Mr Colleague, and in Thessaloniki, as in all northern Greece, there are more than double the ATT beds than the ones received by the government and I will tell you these numbers. But to start with something fundamental that was also in the morning debate between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Vice-Population. The government's choice - and we say it in the most energetic way - is that the ESA will never become a one-man thing again. The ESS is currently maintaining about 50% of the COVID beds and 50% of cases for non COVID. Last year there was no possibility of the vaccine, and therefore there was a greater vigilance and need for the state to interrupt surgery and give almost all of the beds it had or most of the ICU beds to satisfy the CIVID incidents. At the moment, there is the possibility of the vaccine and it is not possible to find people suffering from other diseases who must have clinical ICUs. This option is therefore an option that we support. ICU beds are specific, and they're more than twice as much as those delivered by the SYRIZA government. Through these ICU beds and where we need to develop more MAF or ICU beds, we satisfy the incidents and provide all our fellow citizens with the treatment they need. Specifically for the question you have asked you that in the 3rd RCF only for Thessaloniki, nine new ICF beds have been developed for all of them that the New Democracy Government received in July 2019, while for the 4th RCF totalling 4th RCF hospitals in 2019 were seventy-three and today are hundred forty-two, i.e. twice the ICF beds that are all in operation. You returned on the subject of "Papanikolaou". You also know - because I told you - that with my signature the notice on these positions came out in order to cover them. At the moment we're talking about most of these beds, they're working and they've got IFs in them these particular beds you're talking about. As for the incidents that you referred to that might have existed for some hours of incorporation out of the ICU, it was until the intervals were made in other hospitals and again these incorporations were in MAF beds, increased care, were not in beds that the patient needed to incorporate the treatment to be taken until it was led to the ICU which would have been found through the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA. For the beds of northern Greece, both in the 3rd and 4th HSY are in total a hundred and twenty-two in the 3rd HSY and a hundred forty-two in the 4th HSY. They're more than twice as much of those beds there were. We're dealing with the incidents. We don't have a choice to stop surgery. The surgery works, Mr. Colleague, and the same IF beds that existed on September 1st, when the issue of suspension was raised, there are today. In other words, there is not a single IF bed that is not working because of the vaccination and suspensions that my fellow health professionals have entered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u199	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Flouris, what you have said clearly contradicts reality itself. Mr. Giannakos, speaking today at Real, announced that of the seven inviolable patients who were hospitalized outside of the hospital at AHEPA in Thessaloniki, the three died in a simple COVID bed, while four others remain - and not for a few hours you said - in the same hospital in the out-of-IT hospital. The three who ended up if they were in the ICU, they might have had better luck. They died intubated into a simple clinic coronary, he pointed out. We don't. The president of the WTO says so, Mr. Ploir. According to the president of the WTO, this morning intersected patients in other hospitals, namely three other intangibles in "Papanikolaou" and six others in "Papagorgiou". This means that in total thirteen intubated coronary patients are currently on hold, at the "wait" for ICU in hospitals in Thessaloniki. You didn't tell me why the two and thirty three IC became a hundred fifty. I am referring to non-COVID and COVID incidents. I'm not just talking about one or the other. It is evidence given by the WTO. The marginal situation in hospitals in Kavala and Drama, and at the same time is at risk of entering the closest hospital in Edessa. So where is the plan that the Ministry of Health's leadership intends to deal with the burdened epidemiological picture in Thessaloniki, which in November 2020 you abandoned, unarmed state, unarmed society, as the Prime Minister has confessed to the position you sit on in his tritology? "In Thessaloniki" - he said - "we were wrong". The mistake is double. The double sinning no man of wisdom, but you commit a crime against my city and we will not allow that to happen to you, Mr Plearis. How many new ICUs and MFUs have you created in the past year? Not those from donations, the eighteen in which you were not worth nominate and announce staff in time to be the staff in place? I'm saying that from the two and thirty three spring ICs, there's only one hundred and fifty ICs left, and here your predecessor Mr. Kontozamanis is called to answer the item the shocking fact that 80% of the dead were dead outside of the ICM. Research done, like at Samos Hospital, shows how much more survival potential the man who's in ICU than the one who's forced to keep him out of the ICU because you're not prepared properly. I would like to give you the anxiety of all health personnel at this point. He's in a state of neutralization. They are in marginal state of physical and mental superstition. The question is why don't you think about them? I have the evidence in front of me. Seven thousand sanitary workers took them out on parole due to non-vaccination, a thousand in hospitals in central Macedonia, seven hundred fifty in hospitals in Thessaloniki, two hundred thirty are qualified personnel from ITH. Do you prefer this staff to have it out of battle for a strict, short-cut design without logic, to play krone - letters the health of the world while you can use them? With one quarter of the patient movement right now, Thessaloniki is full, it's full 100%. I'm telling you here that seven people were at risk today. The three left life. The other four are at risk outside the ICM. These people paid a life premium to the National Health System, to their insurance funds for this difficult time in which they have come. What kind of design is that, Mr. Plearis? Will you leave for the second time a hundred dead? Will November 2020 be repeated? You are not answering any of the specific questions I have put to you. You prove that Mr. Mitsotakis' apologies for Thessaloniki was absolutely pretext. I have said this on several occasions, and I shall end with this: the Mitsotakis Government is seriously harming Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u201	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u202	I really can't follow you to the delirium I see right now when you're talking about hundreds of dead people and saying we're leaving this city unarmed. I'm telling you something you can't answer. The beds were there on September 1st. It did not close a single IF bed due to the suspensions available.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u203	Is the WTO lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u204	Two hundred and thirty-three, you say, didn't have Thessaloniki. The 4th RCD had a hundred and seventy - five in its full development that operated and surgery as a clinical ICU. At this moment you ask the Minister who you have in front of you why half the ITH beds were from what they are today, because the evidence I told you, but you don't like them. Seventy-three ID beds in the 4th RC and they're a hundred forty-two today. Forty-six ITH beds are more than only in the 3rd S.H.E. for Thessaloniki that you're talking about. Full development of IF beds has been made. These beds are nearly three hundred at the moment. The beds work in Thessaloniki, but from there on, there's a choice that we've made and called it. Last year the beds were 80% COVID, 20% non COVID. Get up and say "we don't want surgery", why do you know what the oxymomile is? Then I will answer a question from Mr. Xanthos who actually resigns. I guess not a question. Mr. Xanthos's press release this morning foregoes that we had more mortality because the ESS had become a single thematic. So choose SYRIZA what you want. If it becomes one-thematic, will it cover in total only COVID beds and cannot serve other incidents, which had a logic when? When we didn't have the vaccine. Now we say clearly 50% COVID beds, 50% non COVID beds. From there on we give Greek citizens the best treatment. It is good to see these elements, Mr Triantafylides, go and convince our fellow citizens that 90% of these people in the ICM are invasive and unfortunately your city has more invasive than average.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u205	They hear you and they don't get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u206	So we should go get the population to be vaccinated so it won't be found in the ICU. If, however, we are in the ICU, we have made sure that there is an ICU for each citizen and that anyone who is insulated in increased care beds again has all the treatment provided for and the ICU beds are functioning to their fullest. All you have to do is make cheap meth beds policy while we bring you the data and tell you that everything that worked before parole works now. There's not a single IF bed lost because of the inhibitors, but there's gonna be a IF bed and the one who's gonna get a heart attack and the one who's gonna get a stroke and like the kids who had the accident yesterday. Everyone has the right to have a bed for me. So the ERC won't be done. His powers exist. They amplify them. We call on people to be vaccinated so they don't find themselves in a Clinic I.T.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u207	Thank you. We are now continuing with the 20th first under number 59/11-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Instead of investment in public structures, health centers, local health units (KY TOMY), the Government privatises primary health care (SHS)". Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the bet on a government and on a country when it manages a pandemic, a global health crisis, is obviously not just to care for patients with a coronary, nor is it to find an intensive bed for those who need it. The bet was and should have been, but you never put the cubit there, combined the reliable care of coronary patients at all levels, from pre-noo-social management to intensive and rehabilitation after and after post-mortem surveillance and the coverage of all other people's health needs. So the fact that you recognize that it has become a one-thematic SSR is a confession of total failure in management. Why was that failure? Because as it is internationally recognized, but also in our country, by people who know, who are involved in health policy, there has been no active involvement in managing primary health care. This was the weak side of management. That was the weak link. There was no planned involvement of primary care structures and their people, public and private, in cooperation with EGE's services, in the community and, of course, in the former hospital management and home surveillance of coronary patients. So we drove to the hospital blackout and of course experienced a health tragedy both in the second and third epidemic waves. The reason why this has been done in our view is simple. It is not about a certain degree of uncertainty and inability to manage. Behind all this approach, which was very hospitalised, the lack of political will to strengthen public primary care structures, because if they played a role in this pandemic, it would create demands and further support. The only thing you did with a lot of delay is to entrust them to play a role in testing, sampling for molecular and rapid test, and then in vaccination, by disguising too many structures and health centers and local health units with personal valuables, which you moved to shut holes in hospitals. Instead of strengthening the filter to the hospital, you weakened this filter and transferred the entire center of weight of hospital management. There is, therefore, the following question. What's your political plan for primary care? This is the crucial issue. Have you considered international recommendations? It's called the World Health Organization. It's the OECD. I was reading a report from the World Bank. Everyone says so. We need investment in primary care and community care. That's the crucial point. There the battle of the pandemic was primarily lost and secondly, it was lost in hospitals and in the ICUs. Do you intend to invest additional resources and, above all, human resources in public primary care structures or your plan is what the Prime Minister told the PPC and you are willingly supporting, to make public-private partnerships, i.e. the most privatised part of the system, which is primary care, to give even greater space to the private market? Especially for local health units, which in our view was a very ambitious and strategic in the right direction, model of services developed, you have abandoned them. You haven't added one for two and a half years. We managed to open a hundred and twenty-seven in one, a year and a half. Of course you made a call seven months ago, the results of which are still missing. Are you going to support these structures? Is there a plan for organic integration and integration of central health units and personnel into the National Health System?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u209	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u210	First of all, because you referred to the part of the management of the pandemic, obviously you could never take out what the Chief of Police Response took out by showing the elements of the headquarters, because you will have to explain as Minister, as Mr. Tsipras asked us to explain here about the eight thousand-thousand difference, because since 2016 there has been a difference of seven thousand deaths. So these are not serious things. Now let's go to what's happened and we'll come to the TOMY. What was done in the first phase of the management of the pandemic was what they chose to do almost all the countries that, yes, they were limited in surgery so that they could withstand the system. Those, Minister, who did not make this choice were the ones who had most of the dead in the first phase. Do you want to see the case of Italy, the case of Portugal, the case of Belgium? Anyone who chose his system not to limit it could not automatically manage the COVID incidents. Indeed, on the basis of the announcement you made, if you were fans and clearly went out that we had to manage non COVID and COVID incidents at 50-50 as we say we will now, because we have a vaccinated world, then see what you would say when this world that was there could not be served. All European countries that have made a better management have chosen to limit their national health system to have available beds to serve COVID incidents, not the necessary surgery, but the scheduled surgery. So now we're coming to the TIMES piece. Minister, you are making a criticism as if the two years of the pandemic that we are experiencing at the moment have not been included. In fact, all primary care supported the pandemic, because the vaccination centres were also a part - as they worked - of primary care and health care centres were working and we also needed people from the TOMYs that you say to go to reinforce the National Health System, when at that time we were at the peak of the battle against pandemic. The concern you have not given is not true and I will tell you why it is not true. Because we're going to strengthen the TOMMs. The fact that we also want public-private partnerships does not mean that these structures will not be strengthened. You have ensured funding by 31 December 2023 through the NSRP, but we will obviously have to find the way and funding for later. You refer to the notices. I say to you that on 19 March 2021 we had a notice and twenty thousand applications submitted, Mr Minister, only three hundred seventeen for doctors, when the needs for doctors we had were over a thousand years old. It was reasonable at that time because we were still in battle against the pandemic. Now we are trying to find solutions to how TOPMs will be strengthened and, at the same time, there will be a possibility with what the Prime Minister has said, both through preventive examinations and through private-sector partnerships. When we say partnerships to make it clear what we mean. Already a part of the doctors are one of the EOPY contractors. In other words, in order to make family doctors you took INF, and then you got doctors who existed from the EEAS. So the TOMY will be strengthened. We'll open up units in the year. On 5 November we will have the results of the notice, but unfortunately, Mr Minister, it is only three hundred and seventeen doctors. That's the reality. Positions are not covered. We will strengthen the TEMPUS and we will have the solutions at the same time. We should also have a nice conversation about the unsuccessful family doctor and whether you insist and believe that in the Greek system we should have the gatekeeping which you have introduced as a term. If we have to go further to control citizens' attendance to secondary care without the family doctor. These are issues that, as you know, always come about and discuss them with the institutions. More generally, it is in the context of primary reform. I inform you that by the end of the year, at the beginning of next year, the full legislation on primary care will come, including TOMY.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u211	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor. Please, within three minutes. Don't get us out again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u212	We will not get away, Mr President. Don't worry. If what you're saying really has a dose of honesty it's a line change. When we legislated, we started energising this new institution, of decentralised family multimedicals managed by a family doctor, by an inter-professional health team, focusing on prevention of health education, on action in the community. That's the philosophy of the TOMY. And the pandemic proved its timeliness and need. Then the health chief of the New Democracy, Mr. Vassilis Economou, told us here that these are Soviet-type forms that will be abolished by "X" as soon as the New Democracy takes over. Of course you realised that it is now a reform obligation for the country to develop this model. There has been an evaluation report, which I hope you have read. They are two hundred and fifty pages and they have been made by external assessors, who for the first time evaluate structures in the health system and say that they are in the right direction. That is exactly what the field of primary care we know was a deficit from the establishment of the ESS needs. In this context, therefore, we in the past period have supported health centres with ancillary staff. We did four hundred fifty recruits of permanent specialist doctors in primary care. We built a central workshop in Athens to serve the regional health centers and structures in Attica for specialist tests, so that people don't mind and pay out of their pockets. We have invested, as far as possible in memorial and austerity conditions in this critical area, and of course we have also put two civil-type health centres in 24-hour newspapers: the Evros Health Centre and the Alexandra Avenue Health Centre. We took positive steps. Not to remind you now what steps were taken when you were the legal adviser of the previous Minister with Law 4238/2014 with which you effectively destabilised the public structures of the IKA, then, EEAY and went out of the health system over two and a half to three thousand qualified doctors in one night. So in this landscape, it is not a matter of paradoxing, but of seeing what are the new projects, the new challenges of pandemic and the necessary investment. That's what I think is critical. And as long as that doesn't happen, so much hospitals will be pressed, the pressure will accumulate there both the COVID incidents and the rest of the morbidity. Because people do not find easy way out of managing their daily health problems. So, of course, you will not achieve this objective, to combine the ESS with its regular function and the care of COVID, and so will the ESS. You should have made these speeches, and of course you should have involved private clinics in good time. That was also another element. You did not have the political will to actively involve the large private sector in the management of COVID incidents. That's why the public hospitals collapsed. That's why the surgery was suspended by 80%. That is why there have been these side-effects to which we have referred this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u213	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u214	I would like a final question and if there is a commitment to that. At the beginning of December this year, the four-year period of financing of the first structures that started operation expired. They were in the downgraded western districts of Thessaloniki. Is there any provision for a transitional financial phase, for there to be an integration plan for the ERC or will they be found in the air and their structures and people and the world they serve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u215	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u216	You referred back to private clinics. It was a choice and a right choice for the government to have the full management of the COVID pandemic and the private sector was involved in doing surgery that was not done in the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u217	For COVID incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u218	Not for COVID incidents. Surgeries that didn't happen in the NSA. But they relieved beds from the National Health System to be able to use and become surgery. Like the ITH beds that gave them for non COVID incidents. This does not mean, however, that the ESS was not served when beds were empty. Change of policy, Mr. Xanthi, it's not. The model as you had structured it would not be chosen. But right now this model exists and has funding until 31-12-2023. What do we come and say because we are not dogmatic? That the TOMYs exist. There should always be a public sector but it should also be strengthened with partnerships with the private sector. We voted for the family doctors. The model of the family doctor has not been achieved. You didn't do it either. Since 2014, the law is digitised and after your 2017 amendment have been declared for a family doctor under two million Greeks. So, obviously, there has to be a very big reinforcement of the family doctor. I think that little - very much we all agree. It's the first stage it'll last. But not all of this will be covered by TMY. It will be covered by private doctors who will somehow also be paid and who will be private.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u219	Is that the PPPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u220	That's the one part. Not necessarily the PPPs but the existence of individuals in the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u221	That's what's there today. What are you going to do about the reform?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u222	It'll be under contract. As I told you, the existing TOMMs are specific and will be strengthened. It's not a change of policy. It will be strengthened wherever there is a gap. It can be supported by private sector contracts. Whether with structures or directly with doctors. That is why we cannot say something about it, and when they can serve private doctors or multimedicals this gap which exists, we must dogmatically see that it saves and well, something needs to be done about the public. So there are structures, they have guaranteed a funding. It is a great deal of talk to find funding after 31/12-2023, because until then they have been guaranteed through the ESDP. But then these will be covered by the state budget. Let us see in this context, of course, how synergies are to be found. I have said - you are also referring to your question - that especially for the TOMIs and the primary level will be the draft law that I told you about and the timeframe. About the end of the year, the next one will be submitted. At the same time, you're making a reference to EPPY. Mr. Xanthi, there will be announcements in the next few days. It's something we've discussed before. Yes, EEAY won't be for providers. It'll be for the insured. What does that mean? It means that we will have a transformation into an insurance body that buys services for the insured, and in that sense, to contracts that will be signed with private providers - and here it is to see whether we control the private health you say - there will be quality criteria. As we currently have the quantitative rebate or clawback, there will also be qualitative indicators that will begin, first of all, with who will be compatible with the organisation, with qualitative measurable indicators and then lead us to the fact that the invoicing will not be the same. And I bring you one example clearly: we cannot compensate a magnet itself for twenty, twenty-five, thirty-five years old with one who will have a last generation magnet with different areas. Similarly, private providers, who may have to do with clinics, will measure their services, measure their re-imports, their reliability, the staff they employ, their specialties. Because, now, our philosophy is that the EOPY will operate in the direction of the insured person. Anyone who is involved with the EEA should provide high-level services will not be excluded, but there will also be a sense that medium-level services will be provided only because someone will want to be contributed. It won't happen. And there I believe - and you will see it along the way, because this will come fast enough and we will present it - that the criteria will be so objective that they will not leave any suspicion that anyone is going to favour. We want to ensure quality with regard to the insured person in a clear way, not by limiting benefits, but by not providing providers to operate at the expense of the insured person and the money of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u223	Thank you. Now we will discuss the fourteenth with the Minister of Digital Governance, number 66/11-10-2021, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Suspension or extension of the posting of real estate data for the areas affected by the earthquake of 27 September in Heraklion Crete". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know on 27 September, following of course previous earthquakes, there has been the major earthquake in Heraklion, resulting in almost half of the prefecture and the Lassithi Plateau municipality on the other hand being hurt, with the result that many of our fellow citizens are homeless and in total - so that we do not have much time - the economy and social activity to kneel down. What our question relates to is an extension to posting the register for these areas, since it was planned next month to post it. There are issues that we will discuss in the next period in order to resolve, which relate to the register process, but the main request is this post to go three, four months, at least, back. Today they don't even know what people should say. The house has not been judged by the secondary committee, the store or the building. What are they gonna say? That they have a building or that they don't? That they've got a real plot? Therefore, in fact, there should be an extension of the procedure. And I don't know if the three, four, five months is enough. We'll see, though, then. And if your answer is specific, I will not even answer that question, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u225	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, may I also give the warmest wishes for rapid recovery to the President of the Change Movement, Mr Gennamas, and to Mrs Bakoyannis. I think they both have fought many battles in their lives, and soon they will succeed in this battle that they will fight. With regard to your question, it is obvious that the sensitivity we have toward the affected by this phenomenon, which has hit the region and obviously in this light I will tell you that in the five of the eight municipalities, with the exception of Heraklion, Malevise and the Hersonissos, we are not going to preview before March of '22. And in view of the circumstances that will have arisen at that time, we are always here and open to proposals in order to deal with people as much as possible with less suffering, bearing in mind that the natural phenomenon itself, the earthquake, has already affected their assets. So until March of 1922 we are not expected to move on to the preview. Especially now, on the subject of the Lassithi Plateau, we will also consider this. It is in another - if you want - a contract, but I think we will also find the best possible solution there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u227	Good. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u228	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President. I just note that your answer is positive. I do not know whether this time is enough, but see also in the Municipality of Heraklion the former Municipality of Temens, which has been declared in an emergency, as well as some municipality, a section of the Municipality of Hersonissos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u229	Well, now the twelfth is to be debated under number 53/9-10-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The government dismisses contractors of cleaning by bringing contractors costing three times". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, it's the issue of cleaners at the OAED, which is a shocking issue. We have the non-renewal of the contracts of cleaners that have, in fact, given a soul and body in the middle of COVID so that they can keep the premises of the OAED offices safe and the government does not renew their contracts and give them to contractors at twice the cost. We really want you to explain what the public benefit is from doubling cleaning costs. We had about EUR 2,500,000 annual costs for the OAED cleaners and the contract costs, now, will exceed - as I understand it - the EUR 5,000,000. What's the logic here? You mean, a private person being the effect? And, of course, this comes after Mr Hatzidakis is banned from being hired and clean-up contracts in these areas. And you know very well what happens to cleaning contractors. You know that these women and men, who will be working there, should be able to go to various places with a minimum wage of 3 euros and travel to half Athens, often stay unpaid. There are complaints I have brought with timely questions here about how contractors operate many times, especially in the part of cleaning. It is well known that the dismantling of labour rights is a matter of course and yet you are insisting on cleanliness contractors instead of defending the public interest, keeping costs low and in a stable working framework for these women and men. Obviously, they should be simulated, obviously they did not want the works contracts, but the solution is not the contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u231	Minister, you have the floor. Please be within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u232	Mr Arsenis, first of all I would like to thank you for your question, which raises an issue relating to the public interest in the broad sense. That is, in this case, the provision of efficient services in a transparent and legitimate manner by the OAED. Your question also reveals the social dimension of the public interest and how this goes hand in hand with social cohesion, as it affects the life and work of our fellow citizens. Mr Arsenis, in a favoured state such as the Greek State, the service of the public interest is the raison d'être, the purpose of the legal acts or material actions of public legal persons. It is a legal concept, as it is defined by the rules of law alone and through them it can exist and function within the legal order, which has legal consequences. It is even part of the so-called functional legal concepts since its content is determined by its particular use. It is elastic and dynamic, draws legal strength and specializes in the Constitution and the law, and is evolving in the face of the various socio-political and economic conditions. In other words, it is determined on the basis of the principle of legality. All public administration action must serve and protect the public interest. This also perpetuates all aspects of administrative law. In the present case, the institutions of public and other legal persons of public law must apply the procedures and rules laid down in the established rules of law to public procurement. In particular, in the public procurement system, the legislator strictly ensures and sets additional procedures in full harmony with the European acquis, so that public money can be exploited in a fair, efficient and transparent manner. During this period the Labour Force Employment Organisation (OAED) is in a phase of overall transformation, as it has undertaken the crucial role of employment support, the effective linkage of supply and demand on the labour market and the strengthening of the country's human capital through the upgrading of labour skills. The strengthening of active employment and training policies aimed at restoring the labour market after the difficult period of the pandemic is a central choice of the government and places the OAED and its programmes and actions at the centre. In the same direction, significant resources from the Recovery Fund will be made available to complete the transformation of the OAED into a strengthening of the labour market and human resources, such as job creation and the protection of the unemployed. Now, all of this supports a comprehensive internal reorganisation that takes place in the OAED at the level of structures, infrastructures, processes and culture. In addition, the Agency's strategic objective is to continuously improve its operation and services and to provide more rapid and qualitative services for citizens and businesses. Significant steps in this direction have already been taken mainly in the areas of redesign and improvement of procedures and the digitisation of services, which enabled the OAED to continue operating and serving the operators during the pandemic. The logic of reorganisation and improvement of efficiency and efficiency imparts the whole operation of the OAED and on a daily basis. In this light, and because a confusion has arisen over how to function and meet the needs of the body's cleanliness has to be cleared up, certain issues need to be cleared up. By decision of the OAED Board of Directors, in December 2018, the recruitment of staff to cover cleaning needs of buildings housed under contracts of an indefinite duration of twenty-four months and with effect not beyond 2 July 2021 was approved. However, recruitments began late in October 2019. The OAED Board of Directors approved in May of this year the amendment of the employment contracts of the finish cleaning staff and the completion of twenty-four months of employment from the initial recruitment for each job. These contracts are concluded in this period and cannot be further extended, on the basis of existing legislation. It's time. I shall refer in detail to the amendments to the relevant legislation and how they affected the flow of the case. I shall also mention in detail the economic aspects of the issue you refer to in your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u233	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, OAED is the Labour Force Employment Agency. You are currently going on to dismiss five hundred and thirty part-time cleaners. You're firing them off because the contracts are over. You don't call it dismissal, but people are out of work. Do you know who these people are? I've met them, they're the same women and the same men who, after twenty years of work at the Ministry of Finance and in many other places, end their contracts. You're dismantling these people. Who are they? They're people who are close to retirement. They worked twenty years, with a salary of 350 euros, and they succeeded and raised children. I have no idea how they did it. Many times they were paid for four hours and were working eight hours, doing other than cleaning. They have put back now with COVID, at risk of their lives to keep these services open. They are often people with health problems, they have disabled persons, they are third - handed, multiple, single - parent families. At the moment, these four hundred thirty people, women and men, are on the road, with no real chance of finding employment elsewhere. And we have the OAED which, while it should be a model of industrial relations, gets contractors - among us, we know what phenomena exist in the construction relations and especially in the area of cleanliness - with 3 euros an hour for women and men who will work wherever the individual tells them, in any building, regardless of distance, every hour. There are complaints of unpaid work, of unpaid overtime. I don't want to get into any denominations per institution. But they have reached my office on a case-by-case basis, by body, very specific complaints and I think you know them, they have also been made public, and many have brought them into the Chamber with timely questions. And the OAED is coming to ratify this state of anarchy when it comes to protecting labour rights. It's incomprehensible. I call on you to stop the closure of contracts in November, to stop the expulsion of the five hundred and thirty families who are already below the poverty line in absolute impoverishment. Stop this predicament of the dissolution of labour rights through the entry of contractors into the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u235	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u236	Mr Arsenis, a correction to what you have said. OAED doesn't fire anyone. We're completing the contracts. These two things are completely different. As you probably know, concrete amendments to the relevant legislation have been made, which are of paramount importance for the development of the case you are addressing in your question. In January 2021, Law 4765/2021 was passed. Under Article 61 of the Act, Article 8 of Law 4506/2017, which enabled the recruitment of cleaning staff by bodies in the wider public sector, was abolished by means of fixed-term public contracts. The purpose of Law 4765 is to streamline the costs of filling posts, through the conduct of a central procedure against many fragmented ones, and to promote exactly what your question is based on. In other words, the promotion of the public interest. As I will explain shortly, this process has reduced overall budgetary costs, while speeding up the process of filling up positions and strengthening its effectiveness. In other words, with the provisions of Law 4765, the public interest is served in terms of enhanced economic efficiency and efficiency, a reduction in budgetary costs, as well as a reduction in administrative burdens and burdens. By Decision 5051/108, 28/9/2021 of the OAED Board of Directors, the necessity has been established and an international tender has been approved to meet the cleaning needs in the buildings where the agency’s services are housed. The annual budgeted cost of the tender is 3,753,000 without VAT, since the VAT is transferred from the public to the contractor and is marginally lower than the annual cost of 1A/2019, which was EUR 3,759,000. However, in this comparison, it should be taken into account that the 2021 competition concerns the recruitment of five hundred forty-three persons as cleaning staff, whereas in 2019 they were for five hundred, i.e. for forty-one persons. In addition, taking into account the public expenditure incurred in the previous 2019 tender concerning supplies of cleaning and running carrots for the work needs of the staff, which are now borne by the project contractor and the administrative costs incurred in the OAED by the specific selection process and the management of cleaning personnel, according to the Agency’s own estimates, the annual costs are close to EUR 4 million. With the tender launched by the OAED, approximately 6% of public expenditure is saved, and employment is also increasing, as I said. The same calculation shows that the average annual public benefit under the 2021 tender in relation to the 2019 fixed-term contracts tender is about 13% and the corresponding annual public benefit, i.e. including other costs, is just over 25%. On the basis of these facts, it is clear that both in absolute and in relative terms the aims of rationalisation of the costs for the State budget and the reduction of administrative burdens and burdens are served by the open tender opened by the OAS. There is therefore no question of increasing public costs by this procedure. On the contrary - and I conclude, Mr President - the public interest in terms of efficiency and efficiency is guaranteed by this procedure, while the needs of the OAED are served without the same administrative and procedural burden. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that obviously the public procurement procedure should be governed by legality and transparency, but at the same time at the same time ensure the effective provision of each organisation's services, in this case the OAED. Obviously we understand the concerns and concerns of contract workers in the cleanliness of the OAED that were hired in 2019 and whose contracts are currently being completed. However, the official information does not show in any case what the coordinator group of contractual cleaners claims in its letter, namely that in the tender opened by OAED the public authorities pay three times the cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u237	We continue with the sixth under the number 61/11-10-2021 topical question of the second question of the Members of the Elias Movement of Change Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Application of direct support measures for raisin producers'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you well know, thousands of raisiners have been in despair for several months in Elias, but also in Achaia, Messiah, Corinthia, Zakynthos and other parts of the country, because while they have completed the harvest, they cannot promote their product, and the market prices offered to them by traders are 50% lower than last year. In fact, a few days ago prices reached 50 minutes, when last year's price was close to 1,60 euros. You understand that these prices are not covered either by production costs and producers are legally driven to the destruction. The cooperative organisations claim that, due to the consequences of the pandemic, they cannot promote their products and have accumulated very large stocks since last year, so they cannot absorb new quantities, while the Ministry of Rural Development - you - in response to written questions from colleagues from both New Democracy and Syriza and from all the wings of the Parliament you declare that you cannot implement support programmes for the loss of income, such as crisis distillation and the 'green harvest' made in the wine sector, while the possibility of withdrawal of raisin stocks is excluded. At the same time, therefore, that the product remains unsold or is sold at a very low price, in almost 1/3 today, when we are talking about last year's price, farmers are faced with the harsh reality of the rise in energy costs, an increase in fuel prices, an increase in oil consumption, in which we, in fact, have proposed a premium with the rest of the energy sector, and we are still waiting for the answer, and there is a clear risk for thousands of producers of a product and with a great historical tradition but, above all, with a high nutritional value to suffer real economic catastrophe this year and to abandon their crops. They have been helpless in an issue that has existed since April. At least six months the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development is aware. So I ask you: First of all, will you ask the European Union to approve compensation for raisined producers, as has been done in other products because of the pandemic and because of the sharp drop in the sale price of the product? It's a simple and straight question. And secondly, because in your written reply you said that you were considering the possibility of absorbing quantities in cooperation with other ministries, so will you absorb quantities of raisin stocks in cooperation with other ministries, such as the Ministry of Citizen Protection, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of National Defence, so that you can make available to public structures and support a product that - I repeat - is linked to the history of the country, but do you also agree that the current situation for the survival of almost twenty thousand producers in the country is a milestone? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u239	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, this issue has been debated in Parliament again. More specifically, Minister Spelion Lebanon has come here to Parliament and has answered twice about this issue. And as you mentioned in your position, there have been questions of parliamentary scrutiny and questions have been answered from our Ministry. For us and for you and for every Greek, the raisin is an emblematic product, a product exportable, a product that has a great history but has great nutritional value. It is a product which appears on foreign markets. In your reasoning, you say that there are cooperative organisations that do not take the product. I would like you to give me more clarification in your dilemma so that I can understand and those who are watching what you mean. Furthermore, you are aware that the Ministry does not interfere with price formation and is not entitled to intervene in price formation in relation to the aid. It must be proved that there is a problem to go to aid. It is claimed that the price at which dealers and organisations buy from the producer is low. And our own evidence says that prices are open, that is what we collect to the Ministry, which does not make us approve, or even want to accept, and we are trying to correct and change it. I'll tell you why in my denture. So in relation to the measures to limit aid after approval by Europe - the measures because of the pandemic - I would remind you too, and everyone who lives in that country knows that, since last spring, our exports have been carried out, not only on the raisin, but on all the products we have in the country. The argument of not being made because of administrative traffic limitation measures can therefore be understood as having an impossibility to substantiate. However, I would like you to know, Mr Katrin, that the government has stated this through both the Minister and myself that it is always next door to the Greek producer and will try to exhaust all legal means, all the possible means, as provided for by the ELGA, if there were disasters or other regulatory frameworks, and to support producers. Thank you, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u241	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u242	Minister, I am sorry to say this, but it is not an answer to specific questions to say that the Minister has come here and has answered twice to specific questions like that, because the problem as you know well has not been solved until today. Of course, I understand from your answer that it seems to the government that there is not such a serious problem with raisin producers, since, as you said, the price is open. So the government has the estimate that the selling price of raisins, like all the producers in all the prefectures I mentioned to you in Elias, has not fallen so low, but also in all the other prefectures, they claim to date that we have been talking since 1,60 euros, and that is, one third of last year's price. The government's answer is that prices are open and we have no estimate that the price has fallen. To hear it from raisin producers all over the country to see whether the Ministry has a picture of the situation or wants to present it so nicely and to vomit it to avoid responsibility. Secondly, you say that we cannot relate to the drop in prices or the failure to promote the product with the pandemic, because exports are carried out normally. Very good. You in your reply say in writing that there are stocks - this is a written answer signed by Mr Lebanese - because of the pandemic. But the problem is being created, because the pandemic has had stocks, there has been a failure to promote the product. There is a typical example of the Panayalionian Union, which speaks for at least six to eight thousand tonnes of stocks today and the failure to absorb further products. And you - not you personally - the Ministry says that 'we are considering the possibility of absorbing some quantities in order to be able indirectly to support'. I did not ask you to set prices, to intervene in the market. However, you can either demand that, due to the high price drop in stocks due to the pandemic, there is a product compensation or a supply of the product to public structures. Producers, you know, Minister, beyond this matter, our farmers have not taken any suspension of tax, bank and insurance obligations. They have too many problems. They have increased costs in their supplies and crops. They have increased costs in their energy and in diesel traffic. You cannot treat them like nothing happens and come and say that we appreciate that there is no problem. The protests are coming. Problems are multiplying. The product can be recognized as having great value and historical tradition, but with your oligopoly and with the non-specific answers, because you haven't had any answers for six months, you have led a whole productive sector to marginalisation. And that, you know, the inertia of the government is interpreted in a variety of ways by producers, because the state must intervene in favour of the interests of citizens and not in favour of the interests of processors or traders, Mr Minister, and the notion is that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u243	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u244	You will allow me, in relation to my position, to express myself and not take my word and say, 'You have said so, you have said the other.' So I say this openly and clearly to you and to the producers, but also to all Greek citizens, that we do not form prices. Prices are shaped by the market. I tell you that exports are normally carried out in the country. I'm telling you we're living with the farmers. We're here with the producers. We also know what open prices mean, which means small prices for the producer, and that is something that we understand and work to manage and deal with. So do not put words to me that prices are not low. It's a mistake to try to build the Opposition on this rhetoric. But I want to give you some information so that you can hear it too. Grape producers have already received aid through repayable advances of more than EUR 2.5 million. More specifically, in the region of Elijah this amount relates to a hundred ninety-two producers and amounts to 300,000 euros. Also, through the coupled support for Corinthian raisin cultivation, about five thousand four hundred producers have been paid EUR 3,960,000, because you said something about twenty thousand producers. These are elements that are not questioned. And this cooperative organisation, which you have invoked, has received through the repayable advances and aid, which was for administrative travel reduction measures, support of EUR 820,000. So, as I said in my prology and at the beginning of my dentistry, we know that the open price is at the expense of the producer and is very low. So if the Ministry comes right now and says that we will give you so much money, this price will go below and you know it, because the trader will say: you will take it from the Ministry, the state and the Ministry will give it to you. We will not, therefore, allow producers to be forced even further by making such a policy, as you are trying to push us. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I would remind you that from 1 November 2021, in about ten days, many of these practices will be in the past, I am talking about open prices. And why would they belong to the past? Because by the law passed by our Government - and you also voted, your resignation -, Mr. 4792/2021, producers will be paid within 30 days for vulnerable and vulnerable products and for the other products within 60 days. I tell you again about vulnerable products within 30 days and the rest within 60 days. Since when does the application of this provision begin? From 1 November 2021. And that is something that this government will be applying for the first time here, because laws may have been passed in the past too, the question is who has the political perception and the courage to implement the laws. In any case, for the projects you mentioned with the other ministries, we are in contact with them. You know it's not that simple. We are trying to support the producers by giving way through programmes from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and the other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u245	We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 44/8-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Is the payment of the payment of the basic payment even risk?' Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting, Minister, to wish Mrs Bakoyannis the best to overcome her health problem and return and always be strong and strong. Of course, we have waited for the Minister today to answer the two specific topical questions, which are touring his homeland. He had this weekend, of course, to do it. You know there are no holidays in these seats. He had time to be in his special homeland. We would prefer it to be here today, but in any case I think you have the right to hear what needs to be heard as answers. Minister, as you know, farmers have been experiencing one of the worst times in this season, especially since the beginning of spring. With the pandemic not going back, with the weather phenomena from the glaciers in the early spring, with the summer heaters and the last bad weather, we have too great a disaster in production. What the producer is now waiting for is the liquidity that the advance payment of the basic payment will give him. But instead of having optimistic messages that next week we will be paying smoothly for farmers, we have a rapid dissolution of the European payment system and, indeed, with the famously announced resolution of the agency, we see exactly the opposite results. In other words, we see a series of failures, opaque, bizarre and possibly irregular manipulations, which will finally have the farmer next week. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute to develop my thinking. After three changes of administration in OPECE, we see that we have deferrals, cancellations, direct assignments and that we have from the Proceedings Review Authority to cancel tenders, i.e. the Ministry lose one after the other. In fact, the above-mentioned principle of non-transparency, vague and photographic provisions, while justice has already been dealt with in the new Republic's famous pasture. In fact, reports mention that the case has been brought to the European Public Prosecutor. We are all very concerned about this, and we and the producers. And the first thought that comes to everyone is if the country returns to the nightmare of the fines and confiscations that existed until the '15s. We are a few days before the payment, as usual in the last few years, of the October advance. These days, the system for administrative operations has not been activated, nor has the way of allocating pastures has been clarified, which is needed to proceed with advance payment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u247	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u248	I shall close and go to the question with that, Mr President. On the contrary, Mr Minister, we are seeing a KHS issued for pastures, which are changing the whole of the way - we will talk about this in dentistry - especially young farmers who have chosen to enter as farmers, but also those who have invested as farmers. Here we have the two main questions. That's it. Why has none of the procedures chosen been completed for a year in order to bring about the announced resolution of the payment system? We also want you to tell us what your plan is for the contracts of technical advisers and, in general, for the operation of OPECE. Second, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u249	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u250	To finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u251	What am I supposed to do to you if you need five minutes to ask the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u252	Second. What measures have you taken and what forecasts have you made so that the next week’s payment is complete and smooth?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u253	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. On the first question you raised, concerning the paying agency, OPEKEPE, I will give you some information which is not secret from our Ministry. It's in "DENMARK", with ADD, it's published. I know, therefore, that the number. 31685 of 2-5-2021 OPEKEPE published an international electronic open tender for the selection of a contractor to support its information systems in the year 2021. This competition was: First, maintenance and support of OPEKEPE information systems developed up to 31/12-2021. Secondly, development and support of systems relating to the Single Application for Aid 2021 to 20-10-2022. I'll say it again. Until 20-10-2022. I know you know them very well. Third, maintenance and operating support of the necessary information infrastructure of the services and the necessary digital infrastructure of the provision of services to the organisation up to 31-12-2021. Fourth, additional services up to 20-10-2022. This tender had been costing around EUR 1,200,000 and on the basis of assessment - always according to the laws - the most economically sound tender and the end date for the submission of tenders on 26-6-2021. So I say to you that, at the end of this competitive procedure, the decision number 41151 was adopted on 4-7-2021, where the contract was signed and the contract from 4-8-2021 with the contractor who can support the OPEKEPE information system. So, in relation to the 2021 Declaration, we have taken care by the tenth of 2022, next year, to have a contractor supporting the OPEKEPE information system. What does that mean to the producer? It means that payments will run normally, as they were all over the past few years. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Mr President, and I will return to my denology. But what then, from there? Another invitation to tender was opened for the declarations of the year 2022, where the final date of the tender is 3-11-2021, in fifteen days from now, in which we are still planning to run the procedure. And of course this process will go by autumn in October 2023.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u255	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u256	It's in the first part of the question. I'm done. Therefore, the payment procedures, in order to inform farmers of the single payment, will normally run this year within the deadlines, which, as the producers know, was the case every year. More I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u257	Mr Arachovite, you have the floor. Don't do the same to me again for six minutes. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u258	Yes, Mr. President. Minister, that's not my question. The question is that in this case we have malfunctions. And it is, not with the technical consultant, but with the process that the government, the leadership of your ministry, has made sure to create the deadlocks. Where the system has so far not been opened to pass administrative operations, when the CSM is last issued, it is not the technical consultant's fault. It's the Ministry's weaknesses. That's what scares us most. Since we are talking about the technical consultant, I should like to tell you this about the specific CIA I referred to. The problem is that 2022 is a reference year. So what the farmers lose will find in front of them in the next programming period. One of the prisoners. With regard to the second, for the tender for the technical consultant, I have before me - and I shall submit it in the Minutes - a letter from a member of the Board of Directors. the OPECEPE, which is also a representative of the Agricultural Chamber of Deputies of Greece, who says, among other things, about the competition? It says in the end that: ‘A member of the Board of Directors. and a representative of GEOTE, please inform the entire Board. for any responsibilities which we may have as members of a collective body or, where appropriate, where it is established by the competent authorities that the acts of the Agency infringe the principles of transparency, equal treatment and, in general, the lawfulness of competitive procedures and public procurement.’; [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You understand that this is a serious complaint. This has led us to ask you the question, to see what is going on at the OPEKEPE, on the one hand, as regards the functioning of the agency itself, what will happen with the reference year in 2022, what impact will have on payments with the last-minute changes that have taken place or not taken place. And from there on, they are the opaque criteria that we constantly ask about the distribution of the national reserve. In other words, we all suspect that the JAP of the grazing land distribution creates space by removing subsidies from existing producers, so that opaque procedures can be provided to the national reserve. That is what we are asking, and I would ask you to give us a clear answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u259	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u260	We agree from now on. And you did not question the competitions and declarations that exist at the "DENMARK". So we have a competition that has been completed and with which we have taken care of, and have predicted payment for the declarations for 2021, and this competition enables us to go by autumn 2022. In view of this, you also know that, in order to make the payment, cross-checks should be carried out, administrative acts, administrative decisions should be taken into account. It is a series of technical procedures that need to be run within the OPEKEPE to be able to say that we are moving on to payment. So we have the information system. We're running these technical procedures. So on behalf of the government, I am responsible for telling you that we are on trial in the OPEKEPE system and it can cope with the system of payment. The producer therefore knows what he expects to receive, as he has received in previous years. So that's how we're going to go about the payment in the next period. With regard to the time when the basic payment is paid, I would remind you that, as provided for in Article 75(1) of Regulation 1306/2013, payments under the support schemes are made from 1 December to 30 June of the following calendar year, while Member States may make advances of up to 70% in respect of direct payments before 1 December, but not before 16 October. We are now on 18 October 2021. I would like to remind you of the following and to hear from the producers. In 2020 70% of the basic payment for the year was paid on 21 October. In 2019 it was paid on 24 October. In 2018- your term of office - paid on October 26th. In 2017 it was paid on 24 October. In 2016 he was paid 27 October. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is worthwhile for producers. So today, I'm telling you we're ready. It will run the system and payments will normally be made in the last 10 days of October of this month. I would remind you that we already have the competition in place to show the consultant who will support the information system and the 2022 statements. So we're prepared. So there is no reason to worry about producers and say that there will be reductions and there will be problems with the payment of subsidies and subsidies. This is because we, the government, ourselves, do not allow them to happen, to make management mistakes and not to afford the Greek farmer the money they are entitled to and the equivalent. In relation to all the rest, we are a state where there is transparency. Complaints can be made, but you know that justice is the institution and the respective committees that exist to answer and give a solution to competitive procedures, as has been the case with the competition. You know very well that there was an objection - appeal. OPEKEPE has been entitled to an appeal and we are legally moving forward in the next stages and next steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u261	We are going to the sixth - and lastly for today - question number 47/8-10-2021 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Stavrou Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Application to the competent services of the European Union for the recognition of adverse weather phenomena in 2021 and for Community support for the agricultural income of the affected producers'.' Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, don't cause me, because the payment of the basic payment in December 2020 not only was lame, but no one answered the producers what they got, how much they are left out of them, if they are going to get them and what they didn't get where they went. We hope this year that we will not see her again this year. So we know exactly what we're talking about. Now, about the timely question we have. As we have said before, it is a year since the beginning of spring, since the end of February, many regions have had powerful ices, which have defined the development of production so far. Such areas were Scala Laconia with oranges, it was your area, Arta, where there were many early ice-creams and created a very big problem that now appears to be in the harvest where there is no production. We had the heat, the floods and a series of other disasters. In fact, we discussed this with the Minister here too - the possibility for the Mediterranean countries with the greatest problems to submit to the European Commission a documentary record of the damage suffered by the early glaciers in order to obtain support which either the insurance agency, the ELGA, or the state budget, could not bear. Such requests have also been submitted by the French, Italian and Spanish ministry, but our country has so far not submitted a dossier. So you ask yourself why no such dossier has been submitted, and too many months have passed since the first ices of this year, if such a dossier is to be submitted and at what stage of preparation it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u263	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. You raise a matter and an issue on which our Government has shown us a great deal of zeal and great interest and that with specific acts and concrete evidence. We - and it was also voted for by the opposition - have made specific provisions. I am talking about Law 4820/2021 with which we have provided a direct advance of up to 40% of the total amount of damage to those covered by the ELGA regulation. At the same time, we strengthened the organization, ELGA, with more than three hundred geotechnics, to help him in his work, to assess the damage that has been done and to enable them to make the findings so that the world can be paid for. We have, in fact, anticipated an extra overtime fee for the ELGA workers who are employed in these areas. And that was done to provide all the supplies they need, so that we have a quick result, a quick payment of money. In view of the extensive damages throughout the territory, it is not possible to complete personalised assessments by 31 October 2021, when for the relief of producers, in order to support producers, it is necessary to continue to provide advance payments for compensation that they are entitled to, bearing in mind the fact that many producers have lost their income. I remind you and everyone that we spent difficult days in August with the catastrophic fires. Nevertheless, the Ministry, political leadership and ELGA achieved on 12 August the first payment in relation to the disasters made by the spring frost, amounting to EUR 38.9 million, while a second payment of EUR 1.3 million was made on 14 September 2021. A total of EUR 48,000 was therefore made available as an advance to support our country's rural world. You ask us whether the government has submitted a file and why it has not submitted it. I would like to submit to the European Commission in the minutes the letter from the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Spilios Lebanese, who, in consultation with other ministers, addressed the European Commission and asked for the extreme weather phenomena that existed last spring to have an additional aid, for the European Union to take measures. I give the relevant letter for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, George Stylos, presents the abovementioned letter for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know, of course, that the regulations in force in the European Union must be respected in order to give the money. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u265	Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u266	Minister, the question is clear: Have you submitted a dossier as set out in the special procedure for spring ices, yes or no? You haven't submitted. We also asked if there is preparation. If you consider preparation of a letter sent by the Greek Minister, excuse me, that is far away. In order to assist the European Union, which has adopted it as an emergency measure - and I will now table the European Commission press release, the statements made by Commissioner Vojcehovski - we are calling for a specific dossier with documentation: areas, crops, injurious cause, meteorological data, a budget. Has such an envelope been prepared? Is that a file prepared? Here it says - it is recent, on 6 October 2021 - that the Commission adopts exceptional measures to support the wine sector and the fruit and vegetable sector. These are Commissioner Vojcehovski's statements. Has our country, as the other countries have done, asked for support? Because everything you've told us is about the ELGA. The ELGA budget is for granted, given the disasters we have had this year. The disasters in production are much greater than in the budget and available in the ELGA. The committee is willing to support it. We will ask for the support, will we get this support? You told us about the intake into the body. Intake into the body shall be made each year for the damages that occur. Of course, the agency is made up of permanent staff. With seasonal recruitment every year, or corresponding to damages, the problem of the high performance of the ELGA is no longer solved. The main thing is that the damage caused by frosts, hails, heaters, the fires of August and the floods, either of 'January' or now, on the one hand, it goes far beyond the ELGA budget, on the other hand, not all of them covered by the ELGA regulation. The tools available and these are data, are finite. Someone's suggesting another instrument, funding, we're not getting it? What's the Ministry's preparation? A letter - I tell you again - says nothing. Have we prepared a file? Are we ready? Is anyone picking up evidence? He's prepping a file? France, Italy and Spain have already submitted a file. What about us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u267	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Let's put things in order. The first point is this: you are asking us whether we have submitted a dossier. You know, too, we know that, first of all, the Greek producers know, the world here in the country knows that this government has shown its support to the affected producers and has shown that it is next to the productive world of our country. I do not know if you know the programmes of other countries. However, I will submit to the Minutes the reply that Commissioner Vojcehovski has given not only in Greece, but also in France and in Italy and in Spain and in the other countries that have addressed the European Union, which says that the European Commission will not go into emergency measures, what you are asking us to send the dossier. I am therefore speaking for the Minutes, to inform Members and the Greek people, of Commissioner Vojcehovski's reply. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, George Stylos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said, however, that I referred to the ELGA. Yes, I did refer to the ELGA. We therefore have the following two tools: we have the ELGA and the state financial aid with which we can support our producers. You also admitted that, to date, we have made a total advance - I say again, as an advance - EUR 48 000 000 for the devastating damage we had last spring and for the fires. And you know that ELGA's tiles and right now and now they're in the countryside and they're recording the estimates. We as a government in charge have made sure that there are stocks in the ELGA so that it can also cover any further disasters or damages that will occur. This is a comprehensive government policy and it is worth giving the credit to Mr Mitsotakis and to the government that has managed to hold the reserves. There's no danger. I say this, so that the producers know that the ELGA has the money to compensate them. So we've cleared the ELGA, we've made it clear where there's trouble with the frost. What, however, is happening with those not provided for in the ELGA Regulation, with producers who cannot be subject to the ELGA Regulation? We have said and done so here in the Greek Parliament, in the Greek Parliament: In an amendment tabled at No 4820/2021 we have provided for how these producers are covered, namely those that cannot be covered by the ELGA. And that is why the government is working together with the ELGA - because we are not separate - an ad hoc programme, which will make sure that those who really have a problem are covered by those who have been affected by the catastrophic damage caused by the frost or by the fires or by the floods recently suffered. And in this way we will ensure our producers with an objective crisis, but on the other hand, having respect for Greek taxpayers' money. You will know that, too, and I remind you, I will tell you that we are working in this direction again. You can trust us. The Greek citizens have confidence in us and we continue to do this. I would like to conclude with one wish concerning the President of KINAL, Mrs Gennimata, to have a rapid recovery and to have a winner out of this battle as well. And certainly a wish - to say this in public too - for my colleague, Dora Bakoyannis, who also gives a great battle. And I'm sure they've shown a soulpower and they'll make it in this battle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u269	We wish everything would go well! Ladies and gentlemen, two communications to this House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Definition of the report'. 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund on New Arrangements to Borrow - NAB.' Also, the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs submits its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: (a) 'Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the fields of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media'. (b) 'Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America concerning the imposition of import restrictions on archeological and ethnoological categories of the Hellenic Republic'. (c) 'Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries'. (d) 'Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding for Cultural Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates'. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-18-S2-commons.u270	With the consent of the House at 20: 42 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 20 October 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
