ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-9-2021 authorisation, PZ's minutes at its sitting on Friday 24 September 2021 in respect of the vote on all draft laws were confirmed by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey) in relation to the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-missile Defence (IAMD COE Operational MoU)’; 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic), as well as the Headquarters of the NATO Supreme Allied Transformation Commander in relation to the operational relationship with the Centre for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-Air Force (IAMD COE Functionship MoU)’. Before entering the agenda, let me have a statement. The House is informed that, from 24 September, the well-known national interclass exercise "APPROVAL 21" is being carried out, which ends on 1 October. The exercise participates, apart from the Armed Forces, all the country's political sector, by testing the plans for periods of tension, crisis, war and emergency in general. The Greek Parliament participates in the exercise with the Political Planning Unit of Emergency and Civil Protection by implementing their plans. So, among other things, there will be the activation of the sirens throughout the territory tomorrow, Tuesday 28 September, as follows: 11.00' air raid alarm signal, lasting sixty seconds, with a sound of interrupted tension and 11.05's alarm mark, sixty seconds, with sound of constant intensity. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY We will discuss the 25/20/16-7-2021 topical question by Members of the Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance and so on. Alexandros (Alexis) Harrissi, Happiness Ahtsioglou, Socrates Famelou, Stavros Arahovitis, Charalambous (Harris) Mammolakis, Ioannis Sarakiotis, Aikaterini Papanatsiou, Eleftherios Avramaki, Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos, Athanasios (Nassi) Athanasiou, Trichos Alexiadis, Athanasias (Sia) Anagnostopoulou, Annana Valadoni, Socrates Vardakis, Georgios Vartenmenis, Kalliotis, Olga Gervasi, Christou Gianniskoulousias (Natarnis) Antarnis (Natarkalina), Ioannis Giouladis, Ioannis Drassss, Theoriadis, Ioannis, Ioannis Elenistaniadis, Iovanitsas, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisilioulistaniadis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis - Ioannis, Ioannis Elenistaniadis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannismaniounistaniadis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis To stop the migration of growth to the final consumer.' Mr. Haritsis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a phenomenon which concerns the whole of Greek society: explosive price increases. We would not normally have to say much about this. Anyone who has little contact with reality knows that our country is and will continue to be in the next period, if there is no change of course, in the vortex of an unprecedented increase in tariffs, starting with electricity, and including all basic consumer goods and the raw materials necessary for the economy to function. It is, however, a debate which is unfortunately very late and the responsibility for this delay lies solely with the government. For months now, already since the beginning of spring, economists, consumer organisations, chambers have underlined the alarming signs and warned of the upcoming wave of precision. The government, unfortunately, was indifferent. In July the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance tabled a timely question, namely the higher parliamentary intervention provided for in the Rules of Procedure, precisely to demonstrate the importance of this issue. This question was intended to have a serious debate and to show what we consider to be self-evident, that is to say in terms of a test of society the state has to intervene forcefully, to intervene decisively, to prevent increases, to suppress speculation, to ensure consumer income and quality of life, and the sustainability of businesses. The government didn't mind. And here, in my opinion, is the key to the problem. The Government of New Democracy has long been addicted to the communication management of problems. The Prime Minister himself has created a school where the main is irresponsible dispersal of reassuring promises. Last June we remember the fiesta in Santorini, we remember that famous 'last mile of the pandemic'. Sadly, he also avoids taking responsibility for the challenges facing us. In this spirit, we have heard a number of strange and contradictory things, I would say, among them, about the wave of dishonesty. One is the result of the international situation, the other is the return of the economy to a positive growth rate. Even the outrageous, of course, that it's all Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA's fault. One did not hear: what the government will do to deal with this phenomenon, which is 'bomb' on the foundations of the Greek economy. The reason why the New Democracy Government cannot formulate anything convincing about the fight against accuracy is, in my opinion, primarily ideological is the commitment to self-regulation of the market, the perseverance with the doctrine that competition alone will bring prices, tolerance to the idea and only state intervention. Today, our country is faced with another episode of acute crisis. It is this country, Greece, which has been brought to the forefront of bankruptcy by the old political system. It is an economy that lost some 25% of its GDP a decade ago, a country that came out with a huge struggle of its people from the Memorandum, a country that recorded during the pandemic, not only one of the most high rates of recession in Europe, but also the opening of the lane, the exacerbation of inequalities at the very same time of the crisis. This is the country that is currently under threat from accuracy. And that is not a parentheses. Unfortunately, this is a blow which threatens social cohesion and economic development in the medium term. This dimension of the strategy, namely, the transformation of the problem into a permanent element of social and economic life, is precisely related to the political choices of the current government. Because it is not only inaction - inaction dictated, first of all, by ideology, as I described before - what characterizes it. At the same time, the government proves to be very active when it wants to. However, this activity is related to the consolidation of distortions and the development of practices which lead to the establishment of these problems. And I am, of course, primarily talking about the PPC issue. In our country we now have the highest electricity prices in the European Union. If you said this a few years ago to someone, to anyone, to a consumer, to a businessman, it would take you crazy, because those who have basic knowledge of how the country's development model was built after the war - about seven decades ago - have known very well that this post-war development of the Greek economy was based primarily on the very low energy prices. That was, if you want, the comparative advantage. And when you go from one end of the scale - from very cheap energy - to the other end - to expensive energy, to more precise across Europe - and, indeed, you do so sharply, so suddenly, the effects of economic and social life as a whole will be huge everywhere: from the energy-intensive industry and tourism to the last household. Because we all know that the increase in the electricity price is the one that also leads to the avalanche as a whole of the rises in the economy, we all know that the modern debate on energy is related to the urgency of the climate crisis, the need for public planning, the regulation of private action in the field of energy policy. But unfortunately none of this matters to the present government. Last Thursday, without any previous debate, quite surprisingly, you announced the divestment of the largest company in the country. What does that mean? Full privatisation means loss of the basic tool for national energy policy. Instead - especially at this critical juncture - to use this tool to regulate the market, you reject it even more, allowing speculators to manipulate it, without the public being able to do anything about it. This is an outrageous choice. Congratulations, you deserve it! And especially they deserve congratulations to the Prime Minister, who a few days ago - not even twenty days ago at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition - spoke about the GB to young people, spoke about the free parental benefits in the middle range of 800,000 euros, but found no way to say a single word about the future of the Public Power Corporation. This is a sad case of conscious deception by the Greek people! With such a government how can one hope that we will have a radical policy to regulate electricity prices? We cannot expect anything from a government that chose to subject the country's strategic interests to the most critical, perhaps, at the moment in the field of the economy, in the field of energy, in micro-political and business purposes. We cannot expect anything from a government that launched its election with increases in electricity prices of up to 20% in retail, already in September 2019, precisely to fuel a'success story', but at the expense of society itself. We cannot expect anything from a government that has left the wholesale electricity market uncontrolled. I would remind you of the complaints even from EBIKEN, from the Union for Industrial Consumers of Energy, very recently, so that we are the first, according to official figures for August, to the MWh price. And, of course, in September, things have become even worse. The data is clear. Tens of thousands of families this winter will not be able to warm up. I would remind you that according to ELSTAT's official figures, 55.4% of households belong to the 'economicly vulnerable' category and 12.9% are below the poverty line, one of the highest in Europe. ELSTAT's survey on material deprivation in 2020 reveals that thousands of our fellow citizens lack basic goods and services. 96.7% of poor households and 40.8% of non-poor ones cannot cover exceptional but necessary expenditure, amounting to approximately EUR 395. 53% of the total cannot go on vacation a week. 12% cannot be incorporated into its diet every other day basic species, such as meat or fish, which is increased to 45.8% for our poor fellow citizens. This is precisely the economic miracle of the government! I'm figuring out the facts from ELSTAT's investigation. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time in the business world one out of four companies is saying - not now, but already last June - that it cannot respond to new electricity tariffs, companies that have a vital liquidity problem, accumulated debts and uncertain prospects, while, of course, ELSTAT and the Consumer Price Index describes the explosive price index that exist in key food types, but also in sectors such as telecommunications, with our country being 73% more expensive than the European average. I am tabling the relevant motion for a resolution on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for two minutes. Finally, the Climate Survey of the Institute of Research in GATT records that one out of four companies already in the summer has increased its product prices. 22% or one at five states that it will increase these values in the next period. In fact, he says the GFCM of GFCF has been the first time since these surveys have been recorded so much of a number of companies that they say they intend to increase their prices. I'm presenting for the minutes the study of GSEW's IM. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, indeed, all this happens when the Greek economy remains, in relation to European data, at inflation levels below the European average. I would remind you that, until May, inflation in our country was a negative one, official inflation. So what happens when the Greek economy approachs the European average to inflation? How painful will it be for households and businesses? And what does the government do toward all this? It expects competition that will bring down prices. Are you still serious about self-regulation? And obviously - to prevent you - there are exogenous factors in this crisis. But this is precisely the task of politics: to intervene and combat the consequences of the unforeseen difficulties, to create mechanisms and structures to mitigate these consequences in society and in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a new beginning and the first step towards this new beginning is our synchronisation with the international search for a new social contract. The world in which we live is not the world of neoliberal reassurances, those that shaped the faith of the New Democracy ministers in self-regulation of markets. The world where we live is the world of returning politics, that is, it is the world where the work of politics is not simply to watch with apathy what is going on in the economy, but to plan, intervene, to innovate. Look at what they are doing these days in which we are talking about two other countries in the European South on the issues we are discussing: in Spain, the government temporarily reduces the excise duty on electricity from 5.11% to 0.5%, it temporarily reduces the VAT on electricity, and it intends to limit the revenues that energy companies will receive due to increased prices on international markets and impose a cap on the price of natural gas. In Spain's neighbour Portugal, the Minister for the Environment guaranteed that there would be no increases in electricity for households, announcing measures of EUR 430,000,000, which would bring about a 13% reduction in the general electricity tariff. Apart from the economic data and interventions carried out to support vulnerable households and businesses and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the important thing here is the conception dictating these measures, a political concept which combats speculation, which widens the limits of public planning and state intervention. We arrived at the point, the French Minister for Finance, Mr Lemer, just three days ago, to describe the single European energy market as an anomaly that needs to be corrected. We have reached the point where the Spanish Government has come to present a proposal to the European Union to tighten up the European Regulatory Framework against - as it says in its proposal - market speculators. I submit the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But our country, unfortunately, is unfortunate at this juncture, at this very critical juncture, because, although we are the most fragile economy in the Eurozone, the one most affected by this wave of dishonesty, we have a government that, instead of being decisively involved in the international debate, considers that combating accuracy will come with 9 euro per month for the extraordinarily cost of energy. And we are twice as unfortunate, because we are at a time when there are the financial possibilities that have not been in all the previous years and in relation to the removal of budgetary restrictions and the new European financial programmes, in order to take substantial measures to protect consumers, but remain unnecessarily demanded. It is precisely these possibilities, the budgetary and the financial, that make up the backbone of our own proposal, the SYRIZA proposal for direct action to combat accuracy. PPC must and can remain under public control and adjust its tariffs to bring down the entire electricity market. The regulatory authorities, in particular RAE and the Competition Committee, can and should regulate the electricity market and product markets with a particular focus on combating manipulation and speculation. The country must and can obtain a serious energy cost subsidy programme with income, geographical and social criteria, both for citizens and businesses, with particular support for energy-intensive sectors such as processing. The same can and should extend the heating allowance, especially in northern Greece and mountainous areas, because of the coldest and largest in winter. And a progressive government, of course, can and will have to reduce radically, to the thresholds laid down by the European Union, the excise duty on heating, driving and gasoline.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Haritsis, you've exhausted your dentistry. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. Give me a minute. This is translated into a 20% reduction for diesel, 50% for petrol, 93% for heating oil. A progressive government can and should go ahead with increasing the minimum wage to EUR 800, in order to stimulate the workers' available income and, of course, a progressive government can and will go ahead with all the necessary measures to get the public the effective control of PPC and the TEDO, with the aim of the necessary transition to the post-living era and to the green economy not to be the occasion for another legacy in public property, but to be made in terms of protecting society and sustainable inclusive development for all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. I would ask the next questions, as far as possible, to keep the time. Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor. Mrs. Ahchioglou, I'll put you in the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr President, thank you. I'd like the time of my dentistry, because I can't stay long. Gentlemen of the government today is essentially the first time that you have to deal seriously with the question of accuracy, and while not only we, not only the Civic Opposition, not only the remaining parties in anti-population, the country's productive players are hitting the risk of the huge wave of growth and appreciation and, in fact, you should have taken serious initiatives on this issue, in fact, you have done nothing to date. You are constantly undermining the issue, and Mr Mitsotakis, in the recent IGC, has not even dealt with it as a serious political issue. In his speech, he totally degraded it, as if it is not the first topic that currently concerns Greek society and which affects almost all of it. All he has announced - and to finish with this announcement at the outset - Mr Mitsotakis is a subsidy programme with which he was supposed to - so he said in his speech - to protect society as a whole from the wave of dishonesty, a grant programme of 150 million. And to understand the extent of the political deception of this announcement, it is sufficient to say that the burden from increases in the wholesale price of electricity by spring is estimated to be about 1 billion. What will be covered by a 150 million-dollar programme? It's obvious he's not going to cover anything. It is obvious that it is a programme that cannot protect society. That was all Mr Mitsotakis said about the huge problem of dishonesty and the wave of growth in the country. So full downgrading of the issue for months. We know that you will tell us that the phenomenon is exogenous, that is, at the moment, the wave of accuracy is hitting the whole world economy. Indeed, there are exogenous characteristics. There are exogenous characteristics. When economies are in a strict lockdown and then they start operating, there is a launch of demand, which increases prices. There are other reasons why one might say that they give it - let me say this - to the wave of exogenous characteristics, such as an increase in carbon dioxide prices and so on. But it's not just exogenous. There are special features in Greece. There are extreme features in Greece. The target model in PPC did not work. The government didn't do market checks. Greece has been a champion at the wholesale electricity price since 2020. I shall also present the relevant information in the minutes, because in a recent debate with Mr Stakoura this has been called into question, and that is not the case. Greece is a champion at the wholesale price of electricity. It was also summer 2020, it is today. Phenomenal speculation, phenomena of price manipulation and the government in fact only did this whole period was by the law of Mr. Hatzidakis to increase the number of Golden Boys in PPC and multiply their wages. That's what he did. And where are we today? What is the social reality with which you refuse to talk? That already 24% of enterprises have increased their prices for goods and services - and that 22% will increase it in the next period, that is, about half of the companies in the country are increasing their prices for goods and services. The tsunami of growth relates to energy, to electricity, in particular natural gas, to heating oil and fuels. But it is not just about energy. It concerns basic food products, olive oil, bread, meat, fruit, vegetables. It's also about housing. So we have very large increases in the basic needs of a household's survival. Where does this come from? Is he coming to set up a strong society? It comes to set up a society and a labour market that is already compressed by the pandemic crisis and, above all, by the financial management that the government has done. I think the evidence of the recent investigation of the GFCM's IHS is revealing. What's he saying? It says that already in 2020 the proportion of citizens and workers at risk of material deprivation has been increased already since 2020, while since 2017 it has been continuously reduced. Since 2020, the proportion of citizens and workers at risk of material deprivation has increased. In other words, we have a humanitarian crisis ahead of us. That's what he says. Already the cost of living for households, in order to meet their basic needs, to meet the needs of food and travel, without calculating the rent, exceeds the level of the current minimum wage. Already before we see the wave of growth! Already one in three households, not poor households, one in three households in the country, have very great difficulty in covering basic living costs. Small and medium-sized enterprises are also in a similar fragile position. Already before the outburst of accuracy, half of them had a terrible liquidity problem under the burden of serious debts - which you strongly refuse to regulate in a radical way, with a haircut, that is - and with one in three of them being in front of the paddock. In this setting, in this dystopic setting comes to fix the wave of accuracy. And what else does GSEE's UN report say? It goes without saying that, as long as the minimum wage does not increase, as long as serious measures are not taken to deal with accuracy - the accuracy that is now being said and essential living, living and living goods - we will further downgrade the level of household living and social cohesion, that is to say, the humanitarian crisis in the country. And he says something else, something that we often tell you, that you cannot always respond to this problem by saying 'we have growth'. Quarterly growth of GDP is an indicator that does not reflect the major economic inequalities, which does not reflect the risk of poverty and poorness of many households, which does not reflect the over-accumulation of private and public debt, the problems of society's sustainability. It is provocative, then, to this generalised problem, that you answer 'we have growth'. For us it is primarily challenging for Greek society to be on the verge of a new humanitarian crisis and to receive this answer from the government. How do you do that, as Mr. Haritsis asked many times? Keep an eye on the developments. On the pretext of self-regulation of the market - I will tell you why - you refuse to interfere in the market for the break-up of cartels in the energy market, in compliance with competition rules, in order to deal with shamefulness. But refuse to take serious measures to protect society, reduce excise duties, increase the minimum wage. Refugee all these steps. Crisis of accuracy and inflation come and go in a country's history, but how a government faces these crises is that it gives its political stigma and that is what it ultimately defines and how a society lives. There's the stake, that's the political stake. Today, an essential minimum-resolution plan would include an increase in the minimum wage, especially market intervention to respect the competition rules for the break-up of cartels, i.e. hitting the problem at its root, and then protecting society at least would involve increasing the minimum wage and reducing excises on fuel and heating oil for a certain period of time. This would be a plan to tackle the problem effectively. But you don't choose that. You do other things. You chose to reinstate the profits tax on large companies, you chose to reduce the capital tax, you chose to reduce the tax on parental benefits to parents who give children property amounting to 1.5 million, taking into account both parents. These are what you chose to do, not the others, that would give a substantial relief to society. Mr. Haritsis is abusing you for market self-regulation. I wish it was only the idea of the market that has been self-regulation, because unfortunately things are worse, because, as you finally revealed on Thursday, all you decided to do at the moment of the major crisis is the sale of PPC. At the moment, that is, the great energy crisis, when electricity and gas prices are constantly rising, when the wave of accuracy rises and scans businesses and households, you are the ones who are relocating the country's energy polo. That's the choice you make. Do you choose to lose control of the country's energy pillar, finally saying to society what? That she is unprotected and will remain unprotected. That's what you tell her. So I would say that your policy has always been ideological, but after the decision to sell PPC has become dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. Ladies and gentlemen, thirty-two years ago, the late Paul Bakoyannis was murdered. You see flowers in the seat behind you. It's the seat where he usually sat. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when we prepared this question in mid-July, in front of the rally of energy prices and in the face of the affliction and discomfort even in entrepreneurship and the Greek society, we did not imagine that the Mitsotakis Government's response to this crisis of accuracy would be to sell PPC as well. Within an explosive price increase in all energy goods, with serious questions about the energy transition, the Greek Government has chosen for two years that there is no regulation on the energy market, that the institutions of supervision do not function effectively neither in the Competition Committee nor in the Regulatory Authority for Energy, that there is no intervention on the part of PPC, so that Greek production and the Greek household can be safeguarded, but on the contrary that all the energy operators are privatised and that, as long as they are able to settle "blue" children with provocative wages on public bodies and energy operators in our country. The planned crime is confirmed by the fact that Mr.Mitsotakis has neglected to refer to PPC's privatisation, the assignment of PPC, the energy pillar of the country, in his speech to PPC, an asset of the Greek people and the Greek economy with investments of seven decades. All he found to say was for the absorption of 80% of the payroll from the next bills, which was disguised by the usual silent and reputable Minister of Energy a few days later at a press conference, when he announced an alleged measure of nine euros a month, which has not yet come to Parliament, to understand the curiosity, fragmentation and how dangerous the government is for the Greek economy and the households. In fact, in wishes the Minister has limited himself to the providers and to PPC to absorb another part of the increase. But we wonder: A PPC outside public control, as is being pursued these days, could it take orders from a government to support the economy and society? The answer is not, therefore, that you disprove even your alleged own measures, which you are preparing now, because the government with which it is entitled to sell has to respond to the Greek people's property. And we say that all these measures are limited and fragmented, not just because you have not yet come to Parliament, but because this measure of EUR nine has not even been legislated, but because this support does not include entrepreneurship or municipalities. So from bread to water the consequences will be great and the cost of such basic goods and the days will be more difficult for the small and medium-sized ones. That is why this limited measure, which has been announced and which has not yet come to Parliament, notice: we do not know at the end. Will it be 150 or will it be 200 million? Will September be in or will September not be in? And from what account will they be missing, because resources will be used from the climate change fund that you, as you are supposed to, but only in words? Where are they going to miss them? Will they be missed from renewable energy sources? Will they be absent from the fight against energy poverty? Will they be missing from the climate resistance projects, which we see is how troublesome and how unguarded you have left Greece, why do you not do prevention projects for the floods, for the fires or for the other natural disasters? As we have seen from the experience on the energy market, the first measure by the Mitsotakis Government was increases in electricity and bankruptcy in the renewable energy account. The first bankruptcy took place in '13-14 and the market paid for it at the time. The second was now in New Democracy. The result was a raisin in all the RES and a tax on diesel fuel, a raisin and a precision factor that you created. I say this to see and prove how accuracy is created and who is responsible. Greece, in the middle of an energy crisis in the transition process, remains without energy, without public control in the natural gas network, without public control in PPC, with the loss of 49% of the distribution network, because it loses the tools to support the transition and guarantee it, because the strong presence of the public would ensure that electricity is not only a commodity, but is also a social and productive asset, which is certainly not taken into account in the governance of the New Democracy, because the only thing that PPC and the Ministry of Environment and Energy have been seeing for the last two years is increases, shameful and price manipulation, as the Greek industry itself has reported, because that was the only shot you had. Since September 1919 you charged the market with EUR 500 million cost, because they were made increases by Mitsotakis - it was written in Uyia - and then PPC started selling four times the wholesale price in the pandemic for the first half of the '20s. In April of '20, if we remember correctly, it was four times the retail price from the wholesale trade, then there was a cost of hundreds of millions of euros in the balancing market and now the account comes again, which comes again with an amount still not determined, because the adjustment clause will increase every month. We'll report this information here and if necessary, if you'll question them. In other words, what they said is not the case, that the increase in tariffs is fixed and stable up to 50%. The adjustment clause is increased at 15% to 25% each month. The adjustment clause from August in September will increase by 25%, so the costs and increases in accounts will be increased. And all this is not global and European. Because if that were the case, Greece would not be a champion in August at the wholesale price of energy. It is your fault, because even the monitoring and market surveillance mechanism has been legislated eight months after the start of the Target Model, the Energy Exchange, and even - to understand - it has not been implemented, tools which you yourself, even now, recognise that they were in need. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the plan to privatise energy operators has always been a New Democracy project. You tried to do it at the Samara - Venizelos Government, attempted to pass it through memorials and force the SYRIZA Government to implement it. We have succeeded and kept the majority and public control on the energy networks and something else very important: for four and a half years the cost of energy has not increased by one euro. On the other hand, over a period of time, with bankruptcy pressure, the current price decreased by 12%. That's what you need to think about. Why in a question that goes on 'what do we want to do?' we respond that we want PPC of cheap electricity, which supports households and Greek businesses, makes a sustainable society and economy, and we are obviously on the side that claims that PPC must be an energy pillar of the country and can support society and the Greek state and ensure energy security. You are quite clear that you are with PPC and the energy market where few oligars make price manipulation games, which restrict competition and production and consumption and the only way they eventually lead in a tragic way is in a Greece insecure, which cannot compete and survive on climate change. For SYRIZA, the commitment to the constitutional protection of public control remains, both in energy and water, which you did not support. From the beginning of the term of office you have chosen to privatise and divest such basic goods, but they are questioning tomorrow in society. And that society now understands. With the Mitsotakis Government there is insecurity, there is an unknown future and only accuracy. That is why we need a political progressive change in Greece. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Femmelle. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in August an increase in inflation of 1.9% was announced by ELSTAT, but without a corresponding increase in consumption. This is, therefore, the most counterproductive and dangerous increase in inflation, due to product increases due to the cost of production and not to the stimulation of demand. The General Input Price Index to agriculture and livestock for the month of July 2021 compared to the corresponding month of July 2020 showed an increase of 6.7% compared to a 2.9% reduction during the July 2020 comparison with July 2019. The increase in the General Index of Prices in inputs by 6.7% is due to a 7.7% increase in the consumption of consumables, particularly in changes in energy, lubricants and animal feed groups. Note now: The average input index of the 12th August 2020 to July 2021 increased only 0.9% compared to the corresponding period of the previous 12 month and July 2021 compared to the corresponding month of 2020 6.7%. What does that mean? That we're just in the beginning. Repeatedly, with many questions and the means of parliamentary control available to you, we have struck the alarm, the whole opposition, we have to recognise. Already the electricity bills reached the farmers, whether in the household or in the agricultural tariffs, are increased. In both pumping stations and warehouses and stacking facilities the cost of electricity has become unbearable now. Farmers consume energy in machinery, such as silo, milking machines, haremers, as well as in icecreams, which are usually in their homes, so home invoices, for safety reasons. The pumping in private drilling and drilling of TWG continues as protracted anomalism calls for continued watering. Let's say the olive is now irrigated, in this period, at a rate of still summer. Soon after now, the worms are starting. Tractors need oil every morning. We enter the time of seed preparation. Also, particularly increased fuel needs are beekeepers, who, because of the protracted annoyance - in order not to put those who are in firefighting areas - need to move for several miles, many kilometres away, to find better places that can be many kilometres away from their homes. So moving and monitoring need far greater energy in motion. Similarly, fishermen also see the price of oil rising and the corresponding revenues do not rise accordingly, but to the contrary, fish falling over time. But oil is needed every day and farmers who go to inspect, feed and water their herds. As far as feedingstuffs are concerned, the cost of feedingstuffs accounts for almost 60% of production costs on farms. An increase of 20% to 30% in basic feedingstuffs therefore understands that it leads to economic asphyxiation, especially small and more vulnerable farms. In our country, of course, we also have two structural problems in farms: we have the embodiment of mountainity and islandity and the lack of liquidity after the sale of the Agricultural Bank. So that makes money more unconscious. All estimates converge that in the next period energy increases will also lead to other inputs and supplies, especially fertilisers. However, we must add two more parameters to these problems, which are sometimes happening in our country and which are exacerbating the problems of the rural world. One parameter is the pandemic, which has been strongly compressing the income available for almost two years, due to the multiple impact of restrictions and lockdown mainly on tourism. And the second parameter is the climate crisis, which hit multiple businesses, households, but mainly agricultural production, with a major impact on the reduction of expected final income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. Any increases there are in some of the agricultural products - and I say'some' because the increases are not at all - are being made redundant by the really rapid increase in costs, which, apparently, is in front of us. The Prime Minister, of course, did not find a word to say from the IGC about all these farmers' problems. He did not make any substantial speech on the way he intends to deal with the problem. On the other hand, SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras announced from the Step of the House a series of immediate and specific measures to address the immediate problems, but mainly referred to the elaboration and development of a new, sustainable productive model, which will escape the logic of day-to-day management of problems. Ladies and gentlemen, and the consumer pays very high prices in his foods, but the producer can no longer survive. If measures are not taken immediately, in a few months' time, we will be talking about a real multilateral humanitarian crisis and this crisis will be classic. Small and medium-sized farmers will not be able to survive, while the weakest strata and households will actually face a food problem. Many producers will be forced to leave their homes, which is what is going on in the fire-fighting areas, and then we will now be talking about regional security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Arachovitis. The next question is Mr Charalampos Mamoulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to begin my first speech to begin with an event that took place about four hours ago. It is a very important and shocking event in Crete. As you all know, an earthquake of a very large size, of the order of 5.8 Richter, as the first sources say. There is information from the foreign press about a stronger vibration and accelerating ground 2.3 meters per square. In any case, it was on land, with what this entails. Unfortunately, we've already mourned a dead man. The information says there may be other damages. There are missing persons. To convey from the whole House - I imagine - the support of earthquakes in all earthquake regions. Hopefully there is not much seismic development. Messiah continues from what we learn with what this implies. That is why I would ask you, Mr President, if it is possible to conclude my speeches so that I can move directly to Crete, Heraklion, as I have to. I arrived this morning when the earthquake was happening. I hope my request will be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not focus my speech on the detailed presentation of the increases in fuel, raw materials and products and daily services. I think that the unbearable everyday life that all of our fellow citizens now experience has become clear. The government insists on raising the problem in the international context. The government has absolved the responsibilities it itself has created through its choices. I am referring specifically to your decision to replace PPC's lignite plants with private gas units. You replaced lignite with another fossil fuel, natural gas. What did you do with that obsession, I'd say, choice? Make Greece vulnerable to the shock and fluctuations in gas prices at international level, a decision that, due to the current and future increase in gas is going to lead to a further and permanent increase in electricity costs for all citizens. If you were to adopt the central idea of SYRIZA's energy strategy - a Progressive Alliance, the gradual, that is, withdrawal of lignite by replacing it with renewable energy sources and not with natural gas, things would be different. I would remind you that the policy of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance in the period 2015-2019 focused on maintaining stable energy prices, and even with trends of reductions of up to 12%. We have sought, with the strongness of the social invoice, to reduce significantly what was before the gates at that time, which unfortunately has now been established: to reduce energy poverty, in other words. I am also referring to your choice of the electricity market to remain unregulated and to criminally delayed intervention, both yours and the Energy Regulatory Authority, in order to design and implement a supervisory mechanism for shielding and monitoring the electricity market in particular. It is just an intervention that took place last July when the legislation was introduced, but even now that we are talking about it has not been implemented. On the other hand, you choose to discount as unavoidable the precision wave in the market. You choose not to intervene, to monitor unsettled, passively - I would say - attitude and mood, constant revaluations and to wait for self-regulation as magically as the market. It is incomprehensible after a year and a half of pandemic and restrictive measures, with the adverse consequences they have brought to the economy, work and elsewhere, to take this attitude. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr.Adonis Georgiadis argued that the increase in product prices is inevitable due to the explosive growth achieved in the country. It is, however, forgotten that GDP growth in the second quarter of 2021 by 16.2% was expected to be compared to the corresponding 2020 quarter, which was the case with a deep and universal lockdown in the country. A corresponding increase was also recorded in the Eurozone. Countries such as Spain, Italy, Portugal, Ireland recorded a higher GDP growth compared with our country. The major issue is what measures you will take and what measures are taken compared to the other countries of the European Union in order to facilitate the share of citizens who are disproportionately burdened with this disproportionate wave of growth. That's where the warning difference is. Politics will also be judged here, the progressive solution to the government's conservative choice. So I'm presenting measures. It is good that good practices, good practices, be listed, compared, evaluated and ultimately the citizen ends up. What measures have the other countries taken? Spain temporarily reduced the VAT on its electricity accounts and subsequently reduced the profits of the power supply companies in order to secure resources that will enable it to further strengthen households. France already offers 150m euros a year to five and a half million households in the country. Italy announced measures of EUR 3.5 billion to protect consumers against increases in energy prices. The Cyprus Electricity Authority has decided to reduce the electricity price, which corresponds to about 10% of the average domestic consumer's account, i.e. with a consumption of 800 kWh over a period of two months. As far as food prices are concerned, several countries use the lowest rates of VAT for price protection in basic foods. It is a practice that seems to gain ground and has an extremely positive impact. Allow me a few examples. Germany had adopted a low VAT rate of 7% for basic foods. Portugal has adopted a low VAT rate of 6% for basic foods. France has adopted a low VAT rate of 5.5% for basic foods. Italy, Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Latvia have adopted a low VAT rate of 5% for basic foods. Spain has adopted a low VAT rate of 4% for basic foods. Luxembourg has adopted a low VAT rate of 3% for basic foods. Ireland and Malta have adopted a low VAT rate of 0% for basic foods. You realise that solutions also depend on the fact that, when we experience extremes, we must also have a radial, a radical approach in terms of the solutions that we are going to provide. In addition, it should be noted that in some eurozone countries automatic indexation, well-known wages. You, on the other hand, chose to keep food of first need, bread, dairy, etc. the 13% rate. Likewise keep enough food products at the highest VAT rate 24%. What are the three groups of goods that weigh 50% of the weight in total inflation rate? Let me tell you, then, that they are the food and non-alcoholic beverages, Housing and Transport Groups. I would point out that these groups dominate the low-income markets. In these, harmonised inflation was three times higher than the average total budget of 1.2%. So, in conclusion, I think that with your attitude, with the inability to deal with accuracy, you are also further exacerbating insecurity in the economy. You care about the people of low and medium-income, who will need even twice as much money to fill up the basket with the necessary kinds of food. Our priority, which is clearly reflected in our proposals, is the inclusion of this social body, of the whole of the social body, prioritising the most vulnerable income criteria. Thus, we have proposed, among other things, an increase in minimum wages, a reduction in excise duty, an energy cost subsidy for households and small and medium-sized enterprises, a return to the social tariff. You see, our priority is not the further exacerbation of income and social inequalities by escalating the degree of poverty of the population. This is your choice, the choice of the conservative management model. Our choice, the progressive option that we support relentlessly and constantly, is to reduce this scissors, is to reduce inequalities so that there is a better future for us and our children. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position I would like to welcome the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the Ministers of the New Democracy in the reality of increased prices, the accuracy that our fellow citizens have been experiencing for several months. Well, welcome and let's have a very long time. We have been highlighting these issues since the beginning of 2021, since this year. I remember a typical parliamentary topical question about the increases in feed - the doubling, in essence, of feedingstuffs - which had been answered in April this year, where, at the time of the Ministry, I had received the answer that China and climate change were responsible. No debate on initiatives, on actions, despite the fact that they recognized the problem. We had tabled at the end of spring a number of members of the Civilian Opposition Party parliamentary question about increases in the construction industry, the raw materials of the construction industry, aluminium, iron and so forth, a sector which had been severely affected in the years of the memorandum and since 2018 - I would say - is trying and has gone through it. We have not received any response from the relevant ministries. There is no mood for initiative in order to bring about a stir in this wave of growth. And if you do not listen to the opposition and its MPs, I wonder if you have any contact with society, if you go into a supermarket, in a shop in the last few months and you have not heard, you have not been told about these issues, the great increase in prices of products, electricity. And because it is for granted - because the first debate on increases took place in September, and as I have said before, the debate in this House has been taking place since the beginning of the year - that with society you have no contact, I wonder if you have a businessman. With the top businessmen, let's say to the energy industry, aren't you talking to them? And I now come to an interview by Mr Mytilinaios days ago, which says 'a perfect storm'. And what are you doing? You're holding an umbrella in the storm. What does the well-known businessman say? The price rise in natural gas has reached such levels that, proportionally, gasoline from 1.60 euros sold today has increased to 7 euros. We're at the mercy of winter, and you're talking about a nine-euro subsidy - it says - the household. "KATHMERINI" don't you read? "Energy: The industry transmits SOS," says an article in "KATHMERINI", where there is essentially a response from the conference of the Association of Industries of Greece, which states: "Tractical dimensions takes the issue of energy costs and the impact on the competitiveness of Greek enterprises and products in the new conditions which have shaped the rapid increase in energy prices." How do you answer? I have heard the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, wish and hope and believe that the wave will end in the next few months. With wishes and prayers, these issues do not solve the overwhelming majority of Greek society. Of course you have also done the other thing, you have tried to blame one on climate change, one on China, one on Alexis Tsipras, one on development, one on international level. If nothing else, decide who is responsible. Because every time we hear a government minister sit down and try to justify this wave, he finds another excuse. At least have a single line. Colleagues have mentioned the proposals we have put forward and the issues of growth. The President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, made clear about the reduction of excise duty at the lower levels of the European Union, a measure that I personally believe, along with the haircut of private debt, created after the pandemic, will be able to keep the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country alive. But Alexis Haritsis also talked in detail about priced proposals that have been submitted. If you do not want to apply what is proposed by SYRIZA, see what is happening in other countries. Reference was made to Cyprus. You have and translate, ask your transcription what is happening in Cyprus. See what happens in Spain, as now, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your indifference, your inertia harms the entire Greek economy, the entire Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Saraciotis. Last I asked a Member is Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 it was a year when the Greek economy strengthened its resilience. That's not what SYRIZA claims. Indicate in the medium-term 2022-2025 of the Government of New Democracy. In 2020, with the pandemic and incomplete administration by the government, we unfortunately had policies that did not preserve the low strata and the middle class. On the contrary, yes. We see it in ELSTAT's recent figures. 45.8% of poor households say they lack food that includes food of high nutritional value. 17.1% of households say economic inability to have satisfactory heating in winter. The corresponding figure for poor households is 39.1% and for poor households 12.4%. Inflation and price increases devour the purchasing power of workers and pensioners who, of course, are unable to demand and impose an increase in wages and pensions. Let's go back a little bit, though. In 2019, significant movements were made to protect household incomes. It was with this as a principle that we went back and moved on to increasing the minimum wage. We abolished the trade charge on cooperative farmers and cooperatives and in a number of reductions in VAT, on focus, on agricultural supplies, on concerts and on energy at 6%. Especially for energy, as we say in our question, you have allowed this reduction to be depleted and led to increases of up to 20% at retail price at the end of 2019. At the same time, we remember the strongest and populist opposition Members' reactions to the price of petrol, squeezing evidence and evidence of the disastrous SYRIZA government. Where are these Members today to analyse the price situation for petrol? Tell us how much gasoline he puts today with 80 euros of 1,82 and 2,15 euros the price of the litre on the islands? But let's not stay in the past, because it matters what we're doing now. We have tabled a very serious proposal to the IGC, a first step, to try to strengthen citizens by intervening in basic goods and in winter, of course, in front of us. So we call on you to reduce excise duties on fuel to the thresholds set by the European Union, namely a 20% reduction in excise duty on diesel, 50% on petrol and 93% on heating oil. This will relieve households, businesses, farmers. Why don't you move on to such a proposal? Why do you believe in self-regulation of the market? Why do you believe in the least state? It also proved during the pandemic period in times of crisis that everyone there is appealing. Of course, your ideological deadlock has made you step on two boats, on the one hand, to accept intervention, on the other, on the other, on the other, trying to convince us that you are intervening, on the other, that you cannot escape from the restrictions of the neoliberal concept of state and market. In my region, in Magnesia, there is a stressful situation expressed by farmers for the increases in fertilisers - Stavros Arachovitis has said so before - feed, agricultural supplies, agricultural current, by all consumers, regardless of income, about the price increases of basic foods and according to a communication from the Union of the Magnesia Consumers in recent years, has increased complaints from consumers who want to express indignation but also their despair of price increases in services and goods, such as electricity and bread. We hear the government say that there is a responsibility for growth. In the past period of recession, we have not seen price reductions. So something's wrong here. On the other hand, to the extent that inflation is imported, insofar as it is due to temporary fluctuations in international prices, the government must act in order to limit its transmission to consumer prices as much as possible. What direction do you give, gentlemen of the government? Since spring we have asked you through parliamentary questions to prevent events. What does the Government do when the Minister for Development himself gives a general slogan for price increases? That's unprecedented! To feed up the inflation expectations of businesses and consumers, a competent Minister. The collection he later attempted, saying that this will last a few months, will have no effect. If you give a signal to some branches to raise prices, the others will follow. But this game, which if it starts has no end, can be played by players who have the power to set prices for products and services. These are increases that will become permanent, while the government chooses to stay a spectator and while the eye closes to some, leaving them to speculate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Papanaceu. I have the honour to inform you that the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economics, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs submitted on 24 September 2021 a draft law: “Procedure of an amendment to the Concession Convention of 24.6.2016 entitled “Concession Agreement on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus” between the Greek State and the “Piraeus Port Authority S.”. Furthermore, the Ministers for Health, Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Citizen Protection, Home, Justice, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, State Ministers, as well as Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Health and Home Affairs submitted on 24 September 2021 a draft law: "State it from 26.7.2021 modification and replacement from 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention for Project VI of 6.9.2018 the Donation Convention between the Foundation “Customs Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos” and the Greek Public Administration for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health and its Annexes and other urgent provisions to address the pandemic of the COVID Korion -19". Both bills are referred to the competent Standing Committees. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thank you very much for that. Thank you very much for the timely question that we are discussing today, because we are being given the opportunity to speak as a government seriously, with responsibility, with honesty, with arguments and data away from populism, aviation, irresponsible benefits of at least EUR 10.5 billion, reasonable creative ambiguity, deceptive and risky. I didn't hear much today. Until recently, I was hearing about mass padlocks, about recession, about poorness. My dear colleague, Mr Haritsis, you said 'a cycle of recession in 2021'. I've got it here in the Minutes. Mrs Ahtsoglou had said 'in the best case of 3%'. GDP is at least 6% and is normal. It's not development, it's something different. Let us speak seriously and in any case understand how you cost the measures and what they are. Because, Mrs Ahtsoglou, you invoked a debate we had in Thessaloniki. If my memory doesn't cheat on me - and it doesn't deceive me because I sought what you said - you said we should abolish and return the repayable advance. Right? Your President did not say so. So find the things between you two, how much is the impulse you suggest to the government. We cost it, and we raised it. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has, since the first day of governance in the country, set, among other things, as the main objectives of the economic strategy, the stimulation of the citizens' available income - which is why I will be speaking to you today - and I will therefore speak to you today - to improve the economic situation of the middle class - which is why I will be speaking to you today - and to create new jobs - which is why I will speak to you today - and to strengthen social cohesion - which is why I shall speak to you today - which is what is supposedly cutting SYRIZA. To this end, the Ministry of Finance designed and implemented a coherent plan for the creation of more wealth and the fairer distribution of this wealth throughout the previous period. In addition, during the pandemic, it implemented a wide range of support measures for households and businesses which managed to significantly reduce the financial impact of the pandemic. So, over the past two years, by consistently implementing and persuading a prudent fiscal policy, a perceptive publishing strategy and an effective package of reforms, despite unprecedented adversities, despite actually continuing uncertainty, we have achieved concrete measurable targets. The country has experienced strong growth, recording growth higher than all of them estimated in and out of Greece, 16.2% in the second quarter of the year. Unemployment is shrinking to 14.2% from 17.3% in July 2019. I would like to table a table by EUROSTAT, according to which from March 2020 to July 2021 Greece showed the greatest decline in unemployment among all European Member States. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The economic climate is moving at pre-university levels. If you want, all the paintings are at your disposal and I can testify to them in the Minutes. Investments are multiplied, exports are increased, consumption is increased. I heard one of SYRIZA's colleagues saying that inflation went up a lot, without consumption. But, I'm sorry, the consumption was greatly increased. But more - and thankfully for the country - investment and exports have increased. Because this also means productive reconstruction of the Greek economy. Industrial production recordes a steady upward trend for seven months, business starts an economic activity - the Minister for Development thinks it will talk about it - the processing is boosted, the building activity continues to increase, despite consumption strengthening, credit expansion is rekindled by the granting of new housing loans to be estimated to increase by 50% compared with 2020, e-commerce is strengthened, non-performing loans are reduced, the cost of borrowing on money markets is consistently negative, the cost of borrowing on capital markets is historically low. The country is growing, the competitiveness of the economy is improving. This is objectively, indeed with evidence, with arguments about the macroeconomic situation of the Greek economy. As a result of all this to the citizen: First, the household income available, this is the economic policy project, mainly in the middle class, has been strengthened according to ELSTAT by 5.1% in the first quarter of 2021. So we have an improved available income. We shall also see this in the debate later on on price increases. Secondly, the real income of workers has been strengthened as a result of the reduction of insurance contributions, the suspension of a solidarity contribution, the reduction of income tax, the reduction of the ENPI, the increase - this increase - of the minimum wage. The total annual benefit for those paid with the minimum wage ranges from EUR 305 to EUR 533. So I told you about the household income available, I told you about the real income of households and workers. Let's go to employment. Employment increases by 2.8% in the second quarter of the year compared with the first. It is the second largest increase in employment in the Eurozone. It is not celebrated, because unemployment remains extremely high, but now the number of unemployed is lower than in October 2010 and the number of employees is higher than in August 2011. We need to do much more in this direction, but we cannot picture reality with objectivity and realism. Fourthly, this year's growth estimate is now 5.9%. This is a strong recovery, I will tell you, and in 2021, to talk about recovery to come to an understanding, covering over 2/3 of the 2020 loss. And it is a perfectly realistic projection or perhaps even a conservative one again on the basis of the early indicators of the economy. It seems to me that since the Prime Minister announced 5.9% in Thessaloniki there has been no opposition party to say that 5.9% is not realistic. This has never been done in the history of the country. I'm guessing maybe you, too, think it might be higher. It also agrees with the more positive forecasts of international and domestic households. I have therefore spoken to you about development. Employment, available income of workers and households, growth. You'll tell me about the poverty rate. I heard. The proportion of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion went down in 2020, while the opposite happened with the average individual income, which was strengthened. The average individual income increased by 7% in 2020 compared to 2019 and reached 10,041 euros. Therefore, on the basis of the information available for the New Democracy governance period, the inequality indicators show a strengthening of the middle class against the richest strata, a reduction in the risk of poverty and social exclusion throughout the population and a stability of the position of the poorest layers vis-à-vis the richest layers. However, the last element, of course, would also like us to see a reduction and not a stability of the difference between poorer and richer layers. But, as I told you, we need to reflect reality. However, given that over the last two years the pandemic has basically reduced market income in sectors such as tourism, focus, retailing, where employment is concentrated on the most vulnerable groups, such as parttime workers, young people and women, the fact that the income support measures implemented by the government not only retained the losses of purchasing power in absolute terms, but also prevented the disparities from widening, is, in the current circumstances, a success of economic policy, which is recognised internationally, instead of what happened in most European countries. The dynamic growth of the economy in 2021 and the significant increase in employment enable us to be optimistic that this year will also show a reduction in this inequality index. Because, ladies and gentlemen, inequalities are not reduced by redistribution by overtaxing the middle class. This strategy that you have followed results in a total poverty of all layers. As a number of research shows, but also the best way of reducing inequalities, but also absolute poverty, is to increase the employment of investments in natural and human capital and reforms in the real economy. This policy is followed by the government, and this is a policy which already produces results for the entire Greek society, mainly for the middle class and lower income levels. That is the first section because I have heard from many colleagues what the state of the Greek economy is. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent months there have been price increases that in some cases, such as energy, transport and certain foods, have indeed been steep and important. However, the basic thing is to have a dialogue in this Chamber too is to recognise the intensity and extent of the problem. As far as the causes are concerned, therefore, there are two views worldwide: The first view, supported by the major global banks, the central banks, the European Central Bank and the FED, is that they are short-term and will retreat within 2022. In this respect, the faster of the expected recovery in the global economy leads to increased demand for products. On the contrary, the supply side is restored but restored at a slower rate. This asymmetry of recovery between global demand and supply leads to short-term price increases, which are increased due to the base result, i.e. the degrading of prices created by the precipitation of global economic activity in the second quarter of 2020. This is exactly the price precipitation and launching this year. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned chart, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Factors such as the consumption of savings, which increased significantly during the pandemic, increase the problem. These factors, however, are temporary. The second view is that the appreciations are not short-term, but the result of more persistent inflationary pressures. In this regard, the appreciations are the result of the extremely global monetary policy of recent years, as well as the increase in public debt that has taken place in all the countries of the world because of the koruna crisis and which commits monetary policy to an expansion for the foreseeable future. First of all - and that is what we need to discuss - both points of view are based on reasonable arguments. Therefore, to judge which one of the two best explains the phenomenon of appreciation and to implement specific policies, we must use quantitative data from international markets. And so far these figures show that in total the appreciations we have seen are transitory. This comes about - and my dear colleague Mr Chakalotos knows very well - by the evolution of the performance curve of the European and American economy, which is interpreted as a sign of inflationary expectations in different time horizons. The same conclusion is drawn from the answers given by independent economic analysers to specialised opinion surveys conducted by central banks. Overall the available data at pan-European level, in order for the finance ministers to pursue specific policies on this phenomenon, show that although the level of forecast inflation has indeed increased over the coming months, the rise we see in price levels will be transient and in any case inflation will remain below the medium- and long-term target of 2%. As a result, on the basis of current data, the phenomenon of inflation, although significant and obviously unpleasant, is not expected to last and even lead to permanently higher inflation. This is an assessment at a pan-European level. I would like to make a special reference here - because it has been made - to the international price increases in the energy sector. Overall in recent months the evolution of the General Index of Energy Products on the international markets is not significantly different from that of the General Price Index, although greater substituting of energy prices in 2020 leads to a higher rate of appreciation due to, as I said, to a stronger base result. I am tabling the relevant global price and energy tables. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With this in mind the previous comments I made on a transient phenomenon, it is still true of energy as well. However, a closer look at the components of the Energy Price Index actually demonstrates - I have heard this - that there is a significant difference between oil and gas prices with the gas price rises, especially in Europe, much larger than those of oil. I am presenting this table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This figure has been unprecedented over the last thirty years, since historically the fluctuation in gas prices has always been lower than that in oil prices. The causes of this development are the subject of discussion and have been linked to factors outside the economic area. In any case, price developments in the energy sector and in this direction the government is moving to show the importance of further development of renewable energy, especially in the context of the green transition, as well as the importance of Europe and Greece's strategic segregation in this critical sector, so the country is already implementing critical strategic choices in this area. In conclusion, returning to the development of the General Index of Product Prices, I would like to point out that the global economy has experienced respectively, and even more experience of commodity price revaluations including energy prices in the period of the global financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, as well as in the early stages of the European debt crisis 2009-2011. In both cases the appreciations have proved temporary and this has even been the case - a top debate that we must all be careful about - in the context of inflationary expectations, which, as is apparent from the examination of the yield curve at that time, have been considerably higher than today. That is exactly what will determine future developments. If there is a destabilisation of medium-term inflation expectations, the prevailing assessment of the temporary nature of the revaluations will change and then we will have a much more serious and more permanent problem in the world. It is therefore crucial, as international experience of decades has shown, that short-term appreciations do not lead to an upward spiral of inflationary expectations and price increases. This would inevitably result in a more rapid adjustment of monetary policy at a global level in order to prevent higher inflation, which would slow down the dynamic recovery and cause negative effects at multiple levels. That is why I think we will all agree in this Chamber that temporary price increases, even significant, should not lead to self-esteeming inflationary prophecy, the cost of which will be much higher for the global, European and Greek economy, both in terms of GDP and in terms of employment and real disposable income. So I have pointed out to you what the problem is, what the problem is, so what we need to do to deal with this data. In this context, the government has shown that it is next to society in every exceptional and unforeseen circumstances. To this end, it shall implement and continue to apply, as far as necessary, policies to ensure that any temporary and steep appreciations that occur internationally have the least possible footprint in the family budget. And we have acted in time and orderly spite of the fact that if we were invoking estimates, forecasts or evidence we could say that we do not have such a serious problem. I heard about the inflation that it's 1.9%. If we look at comparison with the other European countries Greece in August 2021 had the second lowest inflation in Europe 1.2%. Malta had 0.4% and Greece had 1.2%, when the average European is 3% and many other countries were much higher. This shows that, while we have the lowest inflation in Europe, we are on time and we are taking steps to address a problem that we consider to be coming. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I heard something about the electricity prices in the households, because that's what I understand the major issue. EUROSTAT: Greece in the second half of 2020 - these are the latest available data - has much lower electricity costs along with taxes than many other European countries and the European average. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Haritsis, I think I can prove to you that we are taking dynamic and decisive action, despite the fact that indicators show that the problem does not have the intensity and extent of other countries. So what do we do? Firstly, we are implementing measures to strengthen citizens' available incomes permanently and transiently, but also to maintain and create new jobs. For example, we import the grant of the first entry. For example, we are giving a double dose in December of the minimum guaranteed income of that month of EUR 130 million. For example, we are reducing the refund rate of all repayable advances according to the fall in the company's gross income. For example, we extend the loan grant programme of some seventy-five thousand households affected by the pandemic. For example, we are extending the 'Cooperation - WORK' programme by the end of 1921. For example, we extend the subsidy programme of 100 thousand jobs for another fifty thousand jobs and increase the amount of aid for the heating allowance by 20%. Thus the total heating allowance is now EUR 100 million. We live in these? Second pillar. We are implementing targeted measures to deal with price rises at national level and we expect that measures will also be taken at European level, and my colleagues will speak about this. I will not talk about subsidising the whole population and low-voltage professional invoices, there is the Minister for Energy here to speak. Nor am I going to talk about what the Minister for Development will talk about institutional and organisational steps in terms of market surveillance and control, so that the estimated global price increase is not worked out and that it does not seem to be disgraceful. Third pillar. We move on to even greater reductions in taxes and social security contributions to strengthen the public's available income, i.e. to strengthen the money in the wallet of each Greek citizen. It is recalled that, contrary to what the previous government did, we have cut HSY by 22% - I will repeat it - we have reduced the tax rate on natural persons, i.e. in the middle class and in the lower income ranges from 22% to 9%, we have reduced the withholding tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%, we have reduced the advance tax on natural persons operating in business from 100% to 55% and for legal entities from 100% to 80%, we have reduced insurance contributions by plus three percentage points, and there is a low tax rate for all agricultural schemes of 10%. These permanent tax reductions come to add the continuation for 2022 of the special levy on solidarity with private sector income, the reduction in the tax on enterprise income on a permanent basis from 24% to 22% for all sizes of enterprises, and for small and medium-sized enterprises, the extension of the application of reduced VAT rates to transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, cinemas, the tourist package up to July 1922, the reduction in a number of other tax rates, the abolition of the parental benefit tax - donations for relatives of first grades for immovable and movable property, which were taxed from the first euro, which concerns the middle-class, the reduction of the fee for mobile telephony subscribers and the reduction on a permanent basis to 6% of feed VAT. So in titles: we have a problem. We do not hide it under the carpet, despite the fact that today it does not have the intensity and extent of other countries in Europe. We are dealing with this with permanent interventions to improve the public's available income. We are dealing with this with transient short-term measures to stimulate the availability of people's incomes and reduce energy growth in particular. We are dealing with it through market controls and we are dealing with it with medium- and long-term targets regarding the future of companies such as PPC. Mr. President, I'm closing. I'll take time from my dentistry, because anyway, I have another bill in a little bit. SYRIZA pretends to be the complainant in PPC where he is accused. I shall therefore ask myself three - four simple questions, to which I shall also give answers. That's it. To criticize SYRIZA, the situation he delivered in 19 should be better than the situation of PPC today. Two years after the change of government and administration PPC has objectively regenerated. The company from damages of EUR 900 million in 2018 and EUR 1,6 billion in 2019 went to a small profit of 32,5 million in 2020 and is expected to be closed with profitability in 2021. That's about the financial data. PPC's capital worth of SYRIZA was under 300 million, and today it has reached EUR 2 billion. So it's too much for SYRIZA to talk about PPC. Second. Let's remember PPC's share composition a little. PPC since 2001 has indeed been a multi-participating company, with stocks listed on the stock exchange. In 2011-2012 a percentage, namely 17% of the share capital was transferred by the State to the GOD and in 2016 on government SYRIZA 34% left the public sector and where did it go? Overstatement. So the situation in the equity composition is very simple: 17% went to the HICP since 2011 and 34% left the state and went to the Supreme Court. When? In 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u19	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u20	Third. What were the commitments of SYRIZA? If I am not deceived, many Members here participate in a Governing Council for Economic Policy. In this on December 20, 2018, there is a report on 17% of the SWEDEN. Do you remember what he was saying? "Assessment by the GOI of alternative strategies for recovery", because then the objective was - always - to privatise and go to public debt. I guess you know. This reference has not changed in any case either. So you were aiming to sell 17% of IT as you had found it from the previous government, without changing it. And I only kept the last ADP, which passed through CYSTOP in February 2019. Many of you participated in the then CYPRUS. And the commitment was to write off the debt. Fourth. Why is the increase in PPC’s share capital beneficial? The increase in PPC's share capital is another step towards the development of the company and its transformation into a strong regional energy power. He has said where the allocation will take place: In investment, in renewable energy sources within Greece and in acquisitions of green power plants in the Balkans. With these movements PPC will increase its production capacity, minimise its dependence and with that of the country, from imports, reduce production costs and ensure lower prices for households and businesses. And all this by raising capital from the market, without the consumers or the state being the main shareholder of PPC. Question raised: Will PPC's publicity be lost? It's the last question I ask myself. The answer is: no. A majority shareholder of 34% with a wide dispersal of shares does not lead to a loss of effective control over a public limited company by the majority shareholder. The Greek State will remain a key regulator in taking strategic decisions with voting rights, which ensures that a wide range of strategic investment, strategic decisions will remain under direct public control. This is the practice that is taking place in the world. Because we must see what is happening in the other countries too: Italy - ENEL, a percentage of the public deficit of 23.58%. Community law, EC Directive, EC Directive, environmental policy, environmental policy, environmental protection, environmental Germany - EON, public participation 0%. Gaz de France, public participation of 35%. ERGIE - France, public participation 23.64%. I have brought you five characteristic examples that participation in most cases is even lower. If anyone rushes to tell me "there is also EDF", it has nuclear power and there France has decided, because it has an important nuclear production part, to keep public control. But, that's reality. In conclusion, through five distinct questions and five arguments, I can demonstrate that the changes and the regeneration of PPC enable it to function today as a lever for the global upward trend in prices. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we now have as government proof that we have the capacity, not just to respond with unprecedented reflexes and proven effectiveness in the multiple challenges and crises that have covered the greatest part of our term of office, but also to progress through them, with Greece emerging more powerful and reliable than ever through the greatest exogenous shock in modern history. The same happens now. We are determined, in the light of the developments and the consequences for consumers, households and businesses, to move to all the necessary interventions in order to cope successfully with this extraordinary situation as well. Our goal is a strong Greece with dynamic, productive, extroverted, socially just and inclusive economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Ahchioglu, if you can, don't leave a minute, because I have noted to answer. First of all, I would like to thank the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for asking today's question at an important juncture for our fellow citizens, but also at a very good time for the Greek Government and the results of the financial staff. Mrs Ahtsoglou, listening to you earlier, I understand why Mr. Tsipras made this grand bluff at the press conference at the IOC. Because you probably - from the abstraction of your speech before - have not understood what is happening with the Greek economy and have not informed him properly. I am referring specifically to Mr Tsipras' answer to the PPP, who, at a journalist's question for development, said: "We must not celebrate the growth government, because in 16.2 it is compared to 2020 that the economy was closed, while in reality...", mot a mot Alexis Tsipras said, "...we are second of the end to the development of the European Union." Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: We may disagree ideologically, we may disagree politically, we may disagree with what you want, but in terms of numbers we cannot disagree. So, Mrs Ahtsoglou, you should have informed the former Prime Minister - who told me that he was coming here today, very sorry that he did not finally come, I hope he will do so by the end and not be afraid - that there is an official website in the European Commission where anyone can go - even a former Prime Minister - and see what the position of each country is in relation to the other countries of Europe in terms of its economic performance. And because you have easily passed before that recovery was expected after 2020, you should inform the main former Prime Minister that Greece is for the year 2021 in the sixth place of development in the European Union. Mr. Tsipras joined us in the 20th. Since the 20th anniversary he mentioned to us, we are in the sixth, Mr. Chakalote. And it is shameful that a former Prime Minister, in this way, should reduce the financial results of the country, which is not a success of the Minister of Development or the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister, only - obviously - as an economic staff - but is primarily a success for the Greek people who are cutting and making it. So, Mrs. Ahchioglu, it wasn't self-evident to have that performance, nor is it simple. But since you will not believe me, I will submit some documents on the Minutes: "The house “MODY'S” appears to be well-intentioned by the country's very good performance in the second quarter. "They were much stronger than we expected, especially with regard to investment, as the Vice-President of "MODY'S" Stephen Dick pointed out. "In total, the Greek economy has now noted four consecutive quarters where real GDP is rising by more than 3% on a quarterly basis..." List Peak or MODY'S. "Standard & Poor's, in the second half of the year, expects S&P, which recently upgraded its appreciation for Greece, stressing that it remains optimistic of the country's prospects." And he states: "The communication of the second quarter confirms the strong recovery of economic activity, which is in line with our expectations, as we remain very constructive in Greece's economic prospects. In June we revised our forecast upwards and estimated that we will re-examine it." “SCOPE RATINGS”, for its part, estimates that Greek GDP can be spread even above 8% this year, as Dennis Sen, a new head of “SCOPE” for Greece, notes. "In June last year we upgraded our appreciation for growth to 6.5%, now we are about to review it again, even though the house..." etc. And I close with the last one published. “FITCH SOLUTIONS”: Explosive the development of Greece in 2021.” And he notes: “A review of its estimates for Greece’s development in 2021, “FITCH SOLUTIONS”, stressing that 2021 will be the year in which the country takes the fastest growth in the last four decades, while in 2022 it will also be an extremely strong year of growth for the Greek economy.” I am tabling everything for the Minutes, in particular to go to the hands of Mrs Ahtsoglou, who has repudiated the successes of the Greek economy with one phrase - it is also the relevant sector of SYRIZA - 'it was expected'. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No, Mrs. Ahchioglu, it wasn't expected at all. As we did much better in 2020, while everyone expected that Greece would be the last, with the greatest recession in the European Union, and finally we closed in the fourth place from the end with France - at a very long distance from the last Spain - and in 2021 what the Greek economy achieves was neither a given one. It is a result of certain policies, of specific people and, above all, of - I repeat - a collective result of the efforts of the Greek people. And because you have challenged me - I hope Mr Tsipras finally learns that we are not in the last place, but that we are in the sixth place - and because I like politics to have little truth and not just to do propaganda, let us see what numbers say. You ruled Greece on your own - with Kammenos I mean - in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. In 2019 you ruled half the year, the other half we ruled. Today we have the sixth best position in Europe. The sixth! The twenty-seven are the sixth. Twenty-one country is beneath us. Let's go see a little, Mr. Kathrini, one, in the years of governance by Mr. Tsakalotos, who was the corresponding Staikoras of the period Alexis Tsipras, the corresponding Georgiadis was Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Haritsis and those who passed from there: In 2015 Greece is in the last place in development in Europe. In 2016 Greece is in the last place in growth in Europe. In 2017 Greece is in the last place in growth in Europe. 2018 is fourth of the end and 2019 fifth of the end, half of you, half of us. Today we're six. You have ruled four years and you have always been last, and now we're out and Mrs Ahtsoglou tells us that it was expected. I'd say a lot of heavy talk, but we're in the Greek Parliament and I'm not allowed. So we will either speak with real elements and what our numbers and performances say - and the truth that we are going extremely well in our economy - or we will just waste time to tell everyone what suits us. Mrs. Ahchioglu, now you can leave. You've taken the class. I hope that you will inform Mr. Tsipras next time and not keep lying to the Greek people, although you will tell me that this is his custom, he cannot cut it off. He has an excuse. Now let's go to the question of accuracy. To answer that question, we need to understand what's going on. My colleague from Volos accused me of, listen to me, I urge you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Papanatsiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u24	Mrs. Papanachius, yes. He's from Volos, isn't he? I wasn't wrong. So Mrs Papanatsiou accused me of saying that the Minister for Development is calling for increases. You live in a parallel world. When I said that there should be no increases by companies, because the phenomenon is temporary, what is the difference when one of us claims that the phenomenon is temporary, it follows, that is, that today's increases in international prices are the result of a disturbance in the global supply chain and that will balance about Christmas and then - I will talk more about it further. What does he actually say to the companies? Don't rush up the price because the raw materials have gone up, because soon enough, this will turn down and have lost customers. That is what you actually say to them when you support the view that these increases will be of a transitory nature. And that's what I've said to all my interviews just to keep them from going to make increases, because all day long you're talking about increases. We'll see what's actually happening. The next day I said, "My AUGI" had, my dear Mr Hatzidakis, a full page: "Would Georgiadis not be ashamed to say about temporary increases when they are permanent?" As if it were saying "AGE", "get up all prices now". And you come here and tell me the way back and you're not ashamed? You push them into raises, saying all day something that's not true. And I come a little to the truth, Mr Famele - I have seen you - for PPC and 17% for selling, to get the debt to the loan sharks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u25	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u26	You didn't tell us that. You forgot, Mr. Famele, and with your own personal signature, to be a steward. So let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u27	Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u28	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u29	As a Tsipra government, weren't you a government minister? Were you any other government?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u30	Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u31	Previously deposited Decision of the Central Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers of the Government of Tsipras of February 2019, sir! And you were a member of the Ministerial Council, sir! And if your voters know that you're also signed to sell 17% and go to the public debt! Leave the crocodile tears now, gentlemen of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u32	Where's the contest?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Femmelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u34	Oh, well, you signed and fooled, you say. You signed and mocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u35	You're the one who supported...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u36	You signed lies in Europe! That's what you're saying. Is that what you're saying? That makes sense! Such liars as you are, you'd sign! What would you sign? Really? You've been fraudulent!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u37	Now you guys are selling everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u38	We haven't been able to reach the Supreme Court that you've put everything in for ninety-nine years! No government can reach you! You didn't leave anything. So let's go now to ELSTAT's numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u39	Minister, do not address Members. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u40	I answer, Mr President, that is my nature. When I see such people across the street... Femellos yelling for PPC and has signed to sell PPC and is not ashamed! Now we're going to ELSTAT's numbers. I'll take it for a month, Mr. Haritsis, because in the numbers we have to agree. Since April 2020, inflation has been passing on negative soil. It's time the pandemic started. It shall be reduced by less than 1,4 compared to April 2019. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But then the phenomenon is observed: fresh fruit increases by 26.5. Why are fresh fruit growing, while the whole economy was entering negative inflation? Because if you remember there was a sudden, great demand for fresh fruit and that is why exports worldwide increased. Some people connected it and psychologically to quarantine and pandemic. I can't explain that. The increase is real. The reason why it's unknown. However, there has only been an increase in fresh fruit. Therefore, in April - December 2020 - hold the number, ladies and gentlemen - the average annual rate of general inflation from April to December 2020 was less than 1.9. Moon 1,9! Everything fell. I have not seen any discussion about what the price government is doing. Almost the same happened in the first five months of 2021, notice, the year we spend, January to May, since you are supposed to care about the household basket. How much is inflation in the first five months of 2021? Moon 1,7, according to ELSTAT. In May 2021, Greece crosses border to positive soil. In May we have plus 0.1. In August 2021, inflation increased by 1,9, compared with August 2020. But be careful. Plus 1,9 compared to August 2020, which in August 2020 was minus 1,9! So he goes to button and correct the big cut he had last year. It's not an upward increase. It's correcting a previous reduction. So what has happened to inflation? The less it has been reduced until 2020, the more it is increased in 2021. Just as it grows in 2021 it decreases in 2020. Now the frost and the prolonged heat has destroyed much of the production in specific products, mainly in fruit and vegetables, where there in some we have more increased prices than normal, because production has been very much destroyed. However, let's go to see our inflation in order to understand that all this fuss is justified by what is happening in the world, even though we are to blame - Mrs Papanatziou - for calling for a great price rise, as if Greece had such a big increase, that is what you think. So let's go see. January 2021: Greece has the lowest inflation in the European Union, minus 2.4. February 2021: Greece has the lowest inflation in the euro area minus 1.9. Negative, huh! March 2021: Greece is the only country with negative inflation throughout the European Union, minus 2. April 2021: Greece is the country with the lowest inflation in the European Union minus 1.1. Portugal is marginally negative minus 0.1, otherwise we would be alone again. May 2021: Greece is the only country with negative inflation throughout the European Union minus 1.2. June 2021: Greece is the third with lower inflation plus 0.6. July 2021: Greece has the second lowest inflation plus 0.7. August - the last month we have data -2021: Greece has the second lowest inflation in the Eurozone plus 1.2. Eurozone average in August - which we have 1.2%, is below half the average! Your beloved Spain, for telling us here about the measures taken by Spain for the poor, has 3.3! So successful is the Podemos economic policy! Last year it was last in a recession in Europe with a double-digit textile number -4.5 points below us, worse - this year is the country with the highest inflation in the Eurozone, marginally slightly below Germany. So, then, to figure out what really is going on. Yes, price increases are, of course, extremely lower than in all other European countries, which means that the problem is not endogenous, it is not ours, but it is imported. If we were first in inflation, we'd have to look at what's to blame on us. Here we are with the lowest inflation. It's the effect that comes from outside. Let's go see now. The available income, which you're supposed to care about, according to ELSTAT's figures, every month we're talking about is increasing. This is obviously due to the increase in consumption, and this benefits from the reduction in taxes, which we have already voted on and the reduction in taxes that we will bring. As far as the predictions are concerned, I will remain in the theory - because I am not a prophet - and I will tell you now and why I will stay. I am telling you from the last press conference by Christine Lagard of the European Central Bank: 'The rise of inflation in August in the Eurozone to 3%, i.e. at the highest level of ten years, is a temporary phenomenon. The rise is due to four factors: the strong increase in oil prices since mid-year, the reversal of the temporary reduction in VAT in Germany, the low retail sales march in August 2020 and the cost pressure resulting from the temporary lack of raw materials and equipment.’
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u41	When did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u42	In September 2021, now at the last press conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u43	But today he changed it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u44	I have this. I haven't had time to hear today! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You want to say it's not transient? Because Mrs Papanatsiou has already told us that if we say that it is not temporary, we are calling on them to raise prices! I want a statement from men here, clean!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u45	I don't know! But I know what he said today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u46	Oh, if you don't know, don't interrupt me. Because you're going to be received by the Papanatsiu who taught us lessons. I shall proceed by referring to statements. Yiannis Stournaras: "According to most estimates, the rise in inflation is due to temporary factors that are related to supply congestion". Nikos Vettas, Director General of IOBE: "We come out of a huge recession worldwide, when we had negative inflation in most of the countries of the world, reducing demand and deferring many decisions, while at the same time there is a disturbance in production, as many factories in Asia are closed and the production chains have been broken down because of the pandemic or are in a transition" and so the others explain that the debt is great and why he thinks it is transient. Panagiotis Liargovas, President KEPE: "This accuracy will be temporary until Christmas. Then we will have de-escalation and the situation will be normalized and everything else and it has an analysis because it believes it. President of the OECD: "Inflation will deviate in 2022, but will be maintained at levels higher than before the pandemic" and the OECD explains why. I would also like to give you the prediction of three organizations for Greece. Consensus Economics and Focus Economic provide for zero inflation for the whole of 2021. Zero! And Oxford Economics predicts positive negative inflation last year plus 0.6 minus 1.9 last year. Why are we talking about all this? I repeat, consumer increases will see when they go to supermarkets and it would be absurd not to see, when the whole eurozone is plagued by a large explosion of inflation. The increases in Greece remain significantly lower than the others. And because we were accused, because we have not now made use of the institutional tools, let's go see what we have done. Firstly, we have voted for a provision, which is valid until the end of the year - and, if it needs to be extended, it will be extended, as we have already extended it twice - which prohibits companies from selling with a greater margin of profit than they sold in February 2020, i.e. before ap; the pandemic. The provision is in place until normality is achieved in the international economy and the supply chain is normalised. What does this provision mean? That when we go to do control over the various companies about how much they sell, we compare purchase and selling tariffs and the profit rate must be the same or less than in February 2020. If the profit rate is higher, we impose a fine. We're doing a week's checks. I have to inform the House that generalised rainfall phenomena have not been observed and I would particularly like to thank the market for that, which is why fines are almost zero. There has been no generalised profit margin increase compared with February '20. The provision is in force and I repeat that we are very strict on fines. Secondly, the Competition Committee about half a month ago made a surprise attack on all chains of supermarkets and on all wholesale chains, precisely to see whether there are cartel phenomena. We have no effect today. It would be too early for that. However, the Committee on Competition is also the largest tool we have in order to carry out such an audit and to be able to speak to each other as human beings and not by lying to each other. To sum up, our economy is going very well, and that was not entirely self-evident, as SYRIZA presented it. They are, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, a great field of pride for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the performance of the Greek economy and in 2020, which were extremely better than all the predictions. I would remind you that the forecasts of both the Commission and the International Monetary Fund for 2020 were that Greece would have the greatest recession in the European Union due to its very high dependence on tourism. We have the largest share of tourism in GDP from any other country in Europe. Just because tourism was practically zeroed in 2020, everyone predicted that Greece would have the lowest performance from all European countries by definition. The forecasts were from less than 12% to less than 15%. Greece closed to 8.2% minus. They had us for the last few years and we closed fourths from the end together with France. We went a lot better than everyone expected in 2020. In 2021, in the first quarter and in the second quarter, we went extremely well from both our forecasts and from the forecasts of the Community and from the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, and, as I have tabled to you in the Minutes of this House, we have gone far better than the forecasts of all foreign houses that are watching all the countries of the world and not just Greece. This is the foundation for sound economic growth in the future, because the great growth in the second quarter of 2021 is not only due to consumption, as was usually the case, but to a very large percentage of the export record we have achieved and we have gone even better in the third quarter and the investment record. We have achieved for the second consecutive year the highest proportion of fixed capital investment we have in the past twenty-five years in Greece. That's not what Adonis Georgiadis says. The Ernst and Young report, which looks at 50 different countries in Europe - and not members of Europe - and put Greece in the highest position for the year 2020, in its position of twenty-six. Ernst and Young forecast for the year 2021 is that we will enter the first ten. Indeed, the information announced by ELSTAT confirms that the fixed capital investment in Greece has progressed at an extremely high rate, above all the forecasts of all houses. I'm saying this because I heard this report from Mrs Ahtsioglu and, you know, devaluing your opponents' work to make a figure in the House is morally unacceptable, unless we've given a list of Pesca to all the foreign evaluation houses on the planet and they're all friends of the Government and Georgiadis. If I've managed to do something like that, Mr. Yannoulis, well done. But I would like to conclude with a criticism of the SYRIZA proposals. I am very pleased, Mr Chakalote, sincerely glad that SYRIZA has come to the sense of proposing a reduction in taxes. I was very impressed by Mr. Tsipras two weeks ago, who referred by name to me. I haven't seen him yet. I hope he will come and talk to you here in the House a little bit, if he of course dares. He dared and said, "I urge the Mitsotakis Government to reduce taxes as an antidote to accuracy." Who? The greatest tax-paying Prime Minister since 1830 and the London Treaty has dared to tell us to reduce the taxes, which you taxed everything he was flying, what he was swimming and what he was breathing. Mr Chakatou, do not tell your fellow Members that it was the Memorandum and the Troika, because I would like to remind you that you have been successful every year - I consider it a great failure - to have more than twice as much primary surplus as the Memorandum envisaged. The foreigners were asking you for one and you were taking from the Greeks two throughout your entire term of office to give some crumbs at the end of the year. You scratched all the small and medium-sized ones, scratched every Greek citizen on taxes and come today to us who, from the first day in this chair, we only reduce taxes and suggest that we reduce taxes. Who? The shrimps. If that's possible! I come to something else to laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u47	Too much nerve, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u48	No nerve. I see you and I excite you when I hear you tell us to reduce taxes. You tax-payers, who have increased the advance tax payment to businesses in one day, are teaching me about small and medium-sized enterprises. You took the tax advance from 50% to 100% in one day, without considering how many companies have shut down and only from that crime you've committed. So let's go see something indicative of SYRIZA's interest in the housekeeper's basket. Listen: July 2015, the proud negotiation still increased the VAT rate from 13% to 23% and later 24% to half of food. Today you tell us to legislate lower VAT on food and you took food from 13% to 23% and then to 24% you, who are now making suggestions to us. They were observed at that time, and the following vulnerabilities I have noted to laugh at both the New Democracy colleagues and our fellow citizens who voted for us in the 19th elections and trusted us with their lives to escape these absurdities. So on Tsakalotou, buy minced meat at the meat shop. If he was half of a calf and half of a pork, the pork meat had 13% VAT, the calf 23%. How did you find this I don't know. But this was the case and the meatcakes had to sit in the mixed minced minced meat to put two VAT. A pork buffalo at the meat shop of 13%. But be careful. If he had salt, 23%. And you come here to give us hints. The SYRIZA government imposed twenty-seven new taxes, increased taxes on all products that it is now asking to reduce taxation. For example, fuel increased by 3 minutes per litre the tax on unleaded, by 8 minutes on diesel, by 10 minutes on liquefied petroleum gas and by 5 minutes per litre on heating oil. Mr. Tsipras comes out and promises the PPC to reduce the tax on heating oil minus 93% when the Prime Minister increased the tax on heating oil by 5 minutes per litre. There's no man! There's no other second man on this planet who's been found a little more liar. Coffee: You're telling us about coffee. Mr Chakatou, at least you should explain to your colleagues what you did to coffee. You taxed 3 euros per kilo for roasted and 2 euros for unburned, 4 euros for instantaneous and all coffee concentrates. The imposition of this tax alone increased the price for retail sales of 10% in one day from the tax that you have put, Mr Tsakalote, and you come here unregulated and say with an ease'reduction the taxes'. But do you really think the Greeks suffer from amnesia? They don't know and don't remember what they lived on your days? Can you believe that, Mr. Voutsi? Is that possible? What do you think? That you're making fun of the world? Everyone knows that consciously on your own, without asking you for the Memorandum, at twice as much rate as the Troika was asking, in the worst possible way from your ideology to mourn the middle class, you scratched all Greeks in taxes and you are now coming and making suggestions to us. Indications for tax reductions from you do not accept. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't excitement me. If you don't like it, get out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u49	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u50	I'm hanging up. Truth hurts you, but, if one of you can question that you put these taxes. If one of you can stand up and question one of these taxes. Shame on you for talking. With PPC even worse. You're gonna threaten us, he says, with a special court for PPC. It's our fault we didn't give you a special court for PPC. That's the truth. We received her in her black ass, 300 million capitalization. Aren't you ashamed? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I close: "Geroon, strong" Yanis Varoufakis with a "n". Since you too had the nerve, Mr Dritsa, I would refer you to the government partner on a proposal from Mr Tsipras, not to what you did in '15. Mr. Tsipras, the day before yesterday told us that he wanted progressive governance, dear Babi, and one of the parties that called for progressive governance is Yiannis with a "n". Yesterday, John with a "n" posted a public letter as criticism of what Mr. Tsipras wrote about Angela Merkel. And the one you want today and please for your government partner, Mr Dritsa, wrote in this letter that you became representatives in Greece of "Geroon, strong". So find them with Mr. Varoufakis, who wants him as a co-pilot, who tells you representatives of "Geroon, strong" and leave us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u51	That's a great answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u52	You want him as a government partner, not me. I don't want him at all. You who want to tell him that you are not representatives of Gerun, who are strong, Mr Dritsa, and you personally, who were at the same Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us end this debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u54	So I'm going now. In his speech, the Prime Minister announced a series of measures - not to repeat them - for the relief of Greek households and the Greek economy. All these measures had been built up on the forecast of the revised 5.9% on an annual basis and the measures were calculated on that basis. If, indeed, the forecasts of all these houses are confirmed - I do not know, I say 'if' - and we have a better performance than 5.9%, the Prime Minister will obviously have the option if he considers it appropriate to take further measures to relieve the Greek people by the end of the year. The more our economy grows faster than predictions and the more our collective struggle is more than we calculated, the more our collective national success will have in all our fellow citizens and especially the weaker of them. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, our Government, the New Democracy Government, as the genuine descendant of the popularity of this country, is always the party that collectively expresses the farmer, the small and medium-sized, the employee, the businessman who wants to advance and take his life ahead. As we have always done, this is what we will do now and with your help, of the MPs of the League, we will be getting better and better to return to the Greek people the share of the success that he deserves and that we have committed to offering him, trusting us his fates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that by letter from the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on the Development of Thrace, set up on 24-7-2020, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, and for which the plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 28 September 2021, it shall, acting unanimously, request an extension of its operation until 28 November 2021. Does the House agree that the report should be extended until 28 November 2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u56	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u57	The Minister for the Environment and Energy now has the floor, Mr Screkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today is a good opportunity, in fact, to sum up the measures taken by the Government to support social cohesion during these exceptional conditions prevailing in an international environment with regard to inflationary pressures, but also, of course, to see how this combines and has something to do with climate change, with the climate crisis and with the European strategy to address precisely the causes of climate change that afflicts us. I have listened very carefully to colleagues from SYRIZA, from Acoustic Opposition, and it really seems that they do not realize the Greek reality, but unfortunately they also find it difficult to understand international developments. Because if I may, ladies and gentlemen, a party, it claims to be SYRIZA, supposedly environmental, which supports the continued production of lignite electricity, does not exist in the world. You're the only ones in your kind. A party that wants low electricity prices, which wants competitive prices for industry and for professionals, who want to tackle the phenomena and causes of climate change and not agree and question the European strategy, and the Green Deal again, at least, does not exist in Europe. You are also accusing the Government that it has generally proceeded to sell out the fixed assets of the public sector, and I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you too, during your own governance, have proceeded to privatization and privatization. There are also present ministers here, led by this effort. And I ask you: are you accusing the government of selling the DEDEFOP where, for 49%, we received 2.1 billion euros, which is 35% more expensive than the 25% that you sold IPTO? You are charged with selling the infrastructures when we received 730m euros, 40% more proportionately to the price you received for the DESCA, two companies dealing with the natural gas distribution networks! And we come to the last, the juiciest. You blame the Greek Government, the current government, for allegedly selling PPC. We demand 750 million euros from institutional investors and other shareholders, small shareholders, for 17% of the capital increase. For the same percentage, for 17%, you had, Mr Tsakalotos, only EUR 100 million of revenue in the 2018 budget. And I ask: When is a sellout, now that we are asking for 750 million for 17% or when you registered 100 million for the same 17% in 2018? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please answer me in this Chamber. But of course it makes sense, do you know why? Because in 2018 and 2019 PPC’s market value was only EUR 300 million for the entire PPC group. Today the stock exchange value has reached EUR 2 billion. When did the public gain more than that? When did someone have to go to the special court, as they heard here again? You have that very often in your phrase. When did PPC have 300 million or now that PPC has two billion worth? These are simple questions that I think are very easy to answer. And I repeat - of course, we will be talking about this - as we gradually leave the pandemic behind what is the risk of today's debate. Let us see the measures taken by the current government much faster than many Member States, almost all European Member States, apart from Spain which at the same time announced some measures. So we're taking action. It's enough, and what more would you do? Because of what you have said so far, I do not think that, at the end of the day, the price that would end up with Greek consumers would be better for households than we have guaranteed by the mechanism that we have already announced and which does not only concern the current and short-term exceptional situations and exceptional circumstances which have led to 'rali' prices for European electricity, but also concerns a permanent solution, a permanent mechanism that will deal with the problem and such exceptional situations that may arise throughout the period of energy transition by 2030. Because the risk is to protect households and, of course, to preserve the competitiveness of businesses. So I say very quickly that, so far, the government has taken steps both in terms of the coronary, but also in terms of supporting the global inflationary pressures of EUR 47 billion. And that is why we are continuing to take measures which have been taken from now on to do with the support of households and those who are most in need. But what is the problem, why do we have these increased electricity prices? Because I have heard from SYRIZA's colleagues to accuse the government that it is the government's fault. That is why I said before that you probably do not understand the international conditions in the energy sector. Today the gas price has quadrupled in relation to its price at the beginning of the year. Within six to seven months, natural gas, MWh thermal costs four times more, has exceeded 60 euros, when at the beginning of the year it cost only 20 euros for thermal MWh. Also, carbon dioxide, greenhouse gas emissions today cost three times more than they cost on average last year. 40% of electricity demand is covered by natural gas and the remaining 10% -15% is covered by lignite, so 50% of the electricity consumption in the country is covered by fossil fuels. So when today we produce electricity from natural gas or lignite, it costs more than EUR 130 and EUR 140, that is, four and five times more than the current cost of electricity from the sun and three times more expensive than electricity produced by the wind. That is why we as government, very quickly, decided by the Prime Minister of the country of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, announced at the climate and global protection summit in September 2019 very quickly degreasing. Not because it is not good to use a domestic fuel, but it is very bad for the planet and the environment and it is even more bad for the consumer pockets. Because after the political decision of Europe, and following political decisions by other states around the world, it will become very expensive in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see you who are supposed to be pro-environmentalists and want to help consumers, households and the environment, to come and support degreasement, the carbonisation of the Greek energy industry. You are talking about and mentioning, in your question, percentages of energy poverty. Have you read the statistics from the European Statistical Office and the Greek Statistical Office on the percentages of energy poverty when you were ruling? Have you read, have you seen the statistics on how many households were unable to pay the electricity bills? It was 40%. It exceeded 40% in 2015. It was kept up and in 2016. It started to deviate, in other words, households began to say that they have a greater ability to pay off their accounts in 2019 and 2020, which has reduced this percentage to 28%. Forty percent of households in 2015, it was difficult to pay the bills. It was 28% in 2020. And de-escalation continues to progress. What is the case with wholesale electricity prices? You caught one month in August: Greece the most expensive one. Manipulation. Please, I'm waiting for the complaint. I have heard too many times that the market is supposedly manipulated by electricity producers. Make a complaint right away. If you have any such evidence, why don't you submit it here? Let's see, really, who's manipulating. The RAE is, of course, considering every day without question whether unfair practices are observed either in the production or in the marketing. So you caught the month of August. Indeed, in August Greece had an exact wholesale market price for electricity in Europe. Why don't you say January when Greece was one of the cheapest countries? Why not say about February, in March, in April, in May, in June, when Greece was on the European average. There were several countries that have much more mature electricity markets, which have much larger productive means, which have much better electrical connections between them. In Central Europe, connections are better, of course. They also have nuclear in their energy mix. It's much cheaper when they produce electricity. Why don't you just say about all these five to six months and get caught from August? And what about September? There are eight countries which also have nuclear weapons. Some of them are more expensive than the country. Greece has, up to now, had EUR 132,8 per MWh wholesale price of electricity on average in the days we have spent so far. Czech Republic 134.5. More accurate. Slovakia 134,7. Hungary 135,7. More accurate. Belgium 135,8. More expensive. Spain 151,8, is 20% - 30% more accurate. Portugal EUR 152,2 MWh. More accurate. Italy 153,2. Nearly 20% - 30% more accurate than Greece. That's the reality. So it's not the Greek government, ladies and gentlemen. It is a lot of things that you have done nothing to help them over the five years that you have ruled. It's our energy mix. It is because we need to increase the penetration of renewable energy sources. It is because we need to improve our energy networks so that we can receive more RES. What did you do for all this? What investments did the DADIE make, which had no columns to put in to make connections? We came by and tried through new competitions to get columns so we could make connections. That's what we received from your government. What have we done in these exceptional circumstances? Did we expect to see what other countries will do? We expected to see what the other Member States would do to support Greek consumers? No, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Greece, it was the Greek Prime Minister who announced concrete measures to grant the electricity bill to other consumers regardless of their low voltage. They were heard before the measures taken by Spain. Indeed, someone dared to make a comparison and say "these constitute almost 14% -15% discount, VAT reduction, tax reduction in Spain". Do you know what a discount means - grant three minutes of KWh? KWh is charged by PPC 11 minutes before the activation of the adjustment clause. Three minutes at 11 is almost 30% discount. Another 3 minutes that PPC will absorb, so 6 minutes at KWh, that means 50% absorption of the valuation. To know what the comparison is between the measures taken by the Greek government and the Greek state, and what measures have the European countries taken after Greece. They help PPC and other private providers. I already see that they have announced measures and commercial packages that absorb a piece of appreciation. But we didn't just stop there. We are establishing an Energy Transfer Fund, which has come and is staying. I have heard someone say "it's a clipboard, it's not a clipboard." It's a permanent depreciation mechanism that came and stays. We are legislating in the next few days. It will have the auctioning of carbon dioxide emissions. He'll have revenues from other environmental charges. It will probably have revenue from the regular budget and there we will support all those in need, all the Greeks in need, the vulnerable, the weakest throughout the energy transition that we have to do, not because someone else has told us, but because we want to protect our country and our planet for the next generations. Unless you do not understand that all we are living today, for example, has been destroyed almost 50% of the production of durum wheat in Canada and the prices of wheat around the world have increased, it is due to climate change. The fact that we have increases in primary products is due to the disasters we have due to the effects of the climate crisis. Can't you see that the climate crisis has a price, has a price that actually pays the household, pays it by all the Greeks, pays it by all the citizens around the world? So can we leave that, close our eyes and do nothing and continue to use lignite, coal and emit carbon dioxide in the atmosphere? This causes climate change. Why don't you say anything about it? An environmental party you're supposed to be. Will you ever say anything about it? Do you want the lignite to continue until 2040? Why don't you say it? Your energy and climate plan had lignite by 2035-2040. Do you continue to insist on this? We are starting to talk at least about 150 million euros. Approximately EUR 200 million will eventually be allocated from the emissions auctions to this fund this year. "But will he be away from something?" says SYRIZA's responsible spokesman for energy. He won't miss anything. Six hundred million of the auctions will go to the special account with ELEI to support the RES. Last year was 480 million. One hundred and ten million this year for compensation to support the Greek industry. Last year was 80 million. Fifty to 60 million for lignite municipalities. Thirty-five million was when we received it from you. We double the amount. Of course, 200 million which we have protected throughout this period. Some others were saying we should do something else. We protected them to support Greek consumers. It's 200 million. And, of course, we ask both PPC and other providers to come and contribute. PPC has already announced. Are we stopping there? Are we only stopping at what we do inside the country? No, ladies and gentlemen. Greece was one of the two countries - I would say it was the only country - that put forward a proposal for a corresponding mechanism at central level in Europe, so that we can all deal with the problem that we see has come, that it can also do several months until it deviates. We have come and said let us use extra pollutants or pollutants from subsequent years to now create a fund and support the most vulnerable in Europe. And this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we have formally tabled it to the previous Energy Council and, of course, we have sent it - and I have sent it personally, of course, after the Prime Minister's instructions - a letter to the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmers and to the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Simpson, calling for such a mechanism to be set up and, in this way, to show all European citizens that Europe cares about what is being done, that it does not leave them to work in such extremely difficult conditions and to avoid populism. Why, do you know what the populism is that's started to appear? That it was supposed to be about these increased prices that was the fault of European energy policy, that is Europe's strategy on carbonisation. That's what a populism says. And I'm watching you today and I don't see you separating your position. Please, I submit to Parliament the letter that we sent to the Vice-President of the European Commission. [[At this point Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] SYRIZA, what'd he do about it? Has SYRIZA done anything? Has he done there in the international forums where he's involved? In the European group - and I do not know what European group you are in anymore - you have made any proposals or all that is being made is pretext here for internal consumption and for your external performance there is total immorality, extremes of the tomb. Are you going to make a suggestion? Will you help Greece's proposal if she continues? You're going to make a proposal of your own, and if it's better, let's see it, shall we discuss it, shall we all support it as Greeks? I see no proposal for a central European mechanism to deal with from now on and over the next few years and over the next decades what we are living in today. So you should not try - and I ask - to mislead the world, because you no longer believe you with what you are doing. And we're not in 2014 anymore. We're in 2020 and we're in 2021. I heard some of SYRIZA say that in 2020 wholesale prices had fallen down to low levels and PPC did not make any discounts. Firstly, in 2020 electricity prices were much higher than the electricity prices that you enjoyed in 2015, 2016, 2017, when we had very low oil prices than you remember, but, unfortunately, the Greek Government then failed to exploit these favourable conditions and create a strong growth prospects for our country. However, PPC has also done many things in 2020. In total, it has taken measures that have cost 100 million euros. First, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Forget to say it. Second, 8% discount on consumption of over 2,000KWh. Thirdly, EUR 10 a discount for all those who stopped accepting paper bills and accepting an electronic account. You - let me remind me that - you had gone and put a small piece of 1 euro in each account, for every letter sent to you by PPC. This thing cost about 40.50m euros. It was not too small for consumers' accounts. And don't tell me you're here and proceeded to a 15% discount for the timely payment. So what did you do then? You don't remember them. We've been talking about it. You went and gave everyone a discount that they could pay. And to those who were unable to pay, to the most vulnerable who were stalling, they paid 15% more expensive. A great success for such a party, which is supposed to support social cohesion and is supposed to be pro-social! It goes to the same thing as the philosopher - environmental and that. From there on, we have taken measures to reduce the cost of electricity permanently, because these are short-term measures that will address the problem now and as long as it lasts. Initially they will last until the end of the year and once we see that these pressures, exceptional and extremely great pressures, at electricity prices, will continue, we will naturally continue to support those most in need, the Greek consumers, the households. But we don't stop there. We want to create a green safety net for those who really need it on a permanent basis. For the first time, we make use of EUR 100 million from the Recovery Fund to build, through municipal energy communities, photovoltaics, which will provide almost free green electricity to economically vulnerable. The New Democracy did it, SYRIZA didn't do it. You could do that then. There were other ways, but you didn't. Just to say it. Secondly, we are completing the connections, in a forward-looking way, of the islands with the mainland. We are bringing forward the final, the great interconnection of Crete. Already in 2021, we will have reduced electricity prices for network charges of more than EUR 100 million. When the large interconnection of Crete is completed, then we will have reductions in the end-use of a network that will reach EUR 500 million, half a billion. All consumers will see that in their accounts. We are moving on to the energy upgrade of the country's building stock. This is not the goal of spending a lot of energy, wasting electricity, which will simply be cheap. The point is that we also reduce energy consumption, because the best way to have a lower energy cost is not to consume, but to manage to heat your home satisfactorily in winter and air it, again in summer. How are we going to achieve this? But through the energy upgrade. Over the next five years, we will mobilise more than EUR 3 billion for the energy upgrade of our building stock. We want six hundred thousand buildings upgraded by 2030. Fifty thousand homes will be able to be upgraded to the new "EXXOCONOLOGY" we have already announced that the electronic application platform will be opened in October. A huge difference compared to all the previous "EXOXICOVO" that we inherited from you. You, as a government, had then set the time hierarchy. Whoever was ahead, he joined the program. That's a change. We have criteria now. We have evaluation criteria, with which a hierarchy will emerge, and there will be a prioritisation with transparent criteria, and in this way in a month's time they will be able to prepare the applications, submit the applications, the stakeholders and, of course, there will be the eligible, the 50 000 first, and there will also be the participants, and every time we increase the programme budget and the participants will be able to upgrade their home energy. And we're doing something else you didn't do. We're making a special subcategory for the energy vulnerable, 100 million for the weakest financially. SYRIZA didn't do it, the New Democracy did it. Tsipras didn't do it, Mr. Mitsotakis did it. That's the reality. Because, indeed, we are interested and why we are trying to find real solutions, not words. A separate subcategory for energy-saving households with a very large subsidy and for the very small participation of a guarantee fund that will support them to upgrade their home, reduce 50%, 60%, 70% of the electricity consumption and thus the bill they pay. And we don't stop there. The rest of the programme for the first time also has social criteria. You did not set a criterion, for example, to have more molecules, to have priority, a family that has a disability member who can be at home all day long and should be warmed up. You had no criteria for a multiple family. You had no criteria for a single parental family. We're putting them on. The New Democracy sets these criteria, because, in fact, - I repeat that - we are interested in and looking to find good solutions, not words. We continue and make use of EUR 450 million for energy efficiency and energy upgrading of small, very small, medium-sized and large enterprises to become more competitive on a permanent basis. We are launching a third programme for energy savings in public buildings and road-lighting projects, with a budget of EUR 200 million from the Recovery Fund. We are moving forward and promoting new innovative mechanisms to ensure that our country's production base, the heavy industry, the energy-intensive industry and the craft sector, is at a competitive level with great visibility for the next ten and fifteen years. How? Through 'green' bilateral contracts, a mechanism which we will be tabling to the European Commission for adoption in the next few days. What does that mean? Direct contract between a producer of renewable energy, a photovoltaic and a consumer where he can buy direct green energy very cheap, very competitive for the next 10 years. We are preparing a form of guarantee mechanism from the state so that this can be done. Of course, if we can achieve this, and by subsidising the costs of normalisation, as we say, so that we can really ensure the competitiveness of the Greek production base. We make use of 450 million for storage technologies, batteries and pumping projects so that we can use and import more RES into the energy mix of the country. We increased net metering limit from 1MW to 3MW. A craftsman, a professional can build a photovoltaic with a installed power of up to 3MW and net the rest. Of course, up to 20% you know he can sell it on the network. But we don't live there. In the next bill, which we're bringing, we're doing something very pioneering. We give the possibility of self-production without the limit of installed power. A power-driven industry will only be able to manufacture a photovoltaic for self-production, only for self-consumption, without any electricity being discharged into the network. We'll get over the problem of saturated networks with direct cable. And in this way it will be able to identify, synchronize its production when it produces - its photovoltaic, for example - electricity and thus have very low electricity costs, as well as green energy. We are preparing it and we will bring it to legislation - I hope you will support it - in the next few years. We are looking to find ways to help society, help households, help the country's productive base. And you see we're always bringing arrangements. Let's see if, eventually, you'll ever come and support. About PPC not to say too many things. The good colleague, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavuras, said so. You cannot say much about PPC when you reached it in 2019 to have 1.6 billion losses and in 2018 to have about 800 million losses, i.e. to have accumulated losses of 2.5 billion in two years. And you're celebrating about this? You come here and what do you say? That you did well, that you protected PPC, that you protected the future of the energy sector in the country? But could PPC raise one and a half billion losses each year? In the end, wouldn't you have to come from the state budget - that is, from the taxpayer citizen - and support not to go bankrupt, not to go bankrupt the largest electricity company in the country? How do you come and say that with such lightness? And now foreign institutional investors are coming to buy and pay PPC shares, because they believe in the future, because they believe in the strategy we have developed. Of course, the public remains a key regulator. Of course, it is the shareholder who will also define the administration that will then be approved by the general meeting. And of course it will have the statutory minority, it will have the decisive force for the big positive decisions and, of course, for the management of the company's daily lives. And the benefits will be too great. For who? Only for PPC? It'll be for PPC, of course. It will have 750 million euros and a further 1.5 billion net money if we take away the loans it has to pay from the TEN, so that with this EUR 2.5 billion it will proceed to direct investment in RES in order to replace and withdraw the lignite plants. So, instead of currently producing lignite electricity that for every plant it sells, for every MWh it goes in, build photovoltaics, build wind turbines, build geothermal systems, so that it can compete and compete in the future, but also helps the country's energy mix to get cheap. Where's your problem with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u59	Minister, I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Madam President. I told you about the D.S.C.I.A., the comparison with the DETAIL. You sold it, respectively. So if you look at the proportions of how much the buyer paid the regulated asset base at the Infrastructure and the DESCRIPH and, respectively, the IPTO and the IPTO, you will see that in one case we sold 40% more expensive respectively, in proportion to the Infrastructures Department and 35% more accurately than you sold the IPTO, because you also made demilitarisations. You see there is a government that has a structured plan, has a strategy that looks at developments and provides for it. You don't like us coming too fast and we've been dealing with the upcoming increases in electricity. We are here to deal with any exceptional appreciations we have on any energy products that are appearing in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you too, Minister. And I would ask the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Panagiotis Lebanon, to take his time, because at 17.00 a.m. we have to start a debate on the topical and urgent questions. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u62	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, thank you too for this timely question. You are giving me the opportunity, on the one hand, to show once again the differences between the New Democracy Government and SYRIZA, our difference in relation to our policy, but also to give you concrete answers to the many words - we in a few words and elements - you in many words, without substance - and, in particular, to give us the opportunity to refer to the whole of our policy in the primary sector. A policy which is fruitful and which is why it is embraced by our farmers. A policy aimed at addressing the issue you raise, namely an increase in prices for agricultural and livestock products. Let me begin with what Mr Tsipras said about agriculture in Thessaloniki and to which Mr Arachovitis referred briefly, of course, has referred. So let us see what Mr Tsipras' reports and promises were, which I have here, and I shall submit in the Minutes, together with many facts. In particular, therefore, I wish Mr Tsipras, on six points, with regard to specific measures, which, at the same time as the Chief of Officerial Opposition, would awkwardly speak in Thessaloniki - and today, awkwardly, you will also repeat - we have already implemented them. He spoke of emergency when we voted for our relief bill, we have already given 28,573 000, we have already given some 470 million to our farmers to support them in the previous period and we have covered all the needs of "IAN". And you came with a wish. He continued to talk about strengthening feed and agricultural supplies, when we at the Ministry, with the assistance of our then State Secretary and now our Parliamentary representative - and I shall table this in the Minutes - have not only the acceptance of farmers but also of their associations themselves by thanking them. At a time when he allegedly promised measures for firefighting, we have very specific measures with points, money costing 12 for beekeepers and four specific points for resin producers. When Mr Tsipras - and today, of course, we did not hear anything else about this - came and said 'we will step up controls on illegal Greekism', and that was the measure that his government would bring, we have very specific results, which are unprecedented for Greek data - I will then analyse them - and which have already brought about considerable increases for our producers who reach the milk and 50%. I'll see you then. So that is the fundamental difference, on the one hand, between you and mere words, on the other hand, with substance and figures. In particular, you refer to your question - and it is here to get them afterwards and study them - the increase that actually exists in animal feed. But you forget, and I don't know if you're doing this deliberately, say what the world scene is during the days we're living. What exactly is going on in our world right now? Prices go up worldwide indeed. They go up because there is a demand after the crisis, where production capacity is not enough, why prices go up to world trade, because prices go up to the fares of shipping companies. I do not understand exactly how you propose to deal with this trend of the free market. If you want to come back to your old logic and join the JRC, I understand your position. If not, I expect you to tell us how you will do this and in any case how you propose to us to regulate world trade in order to solve this kind of problem. You are forgetting, however, when you come and make this inexpensive criticism to refer to our own policy, which has specific effects on the increases our producers see in their struggles, on their own day-to-day work with their jobs. And I'm really wondering, and I have a list here, except for the milk I told you before, in the common wheat, in the hard, in the barley, in the corn, in the peas, in the cotton, in the peasant, you really what do you want? Do you want us to compress more of our farmers? Do you want us to compress more of our producers? Are you not happy that there is a national policy that gives fruit and thus the most difficult occupation to be paid in proportion to the effort and sweat that these people are pouring? I really wonder how you have the nerve to come here and tell us about the policy that we follow when the market speaks for itself. Nevertheless, while there was your wish - and this was at your disposal to see, if you don't know them - on your side, the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki for the first time so emphatically talked about the importance of agricultural production and its link to the development of the next ten years and especially about its link to social cohesion. And within this framework he also made the reference and publicly stated his decision to reduce VAT to 6%. Don't you welcome that, too? A few weeks ago we came here and voted to allow the farmer to have a five-and-a-half KW agricultural photovoltaic, which was a solid request from all farmers throughout Greece. We have also voted for it and you have even said so 'no'. Does this not enable the Greek producer to have cheaper electricity and an extra income? You ask us whether or not we support farmers. I told you before, in order not to abuse the time, that we have paid for the support of producers in the primary sector about 470 million lately. It is precisely here - and I am tabling them to you too - that the measures which are detailed in this year and the previous year have been taken to meet these needs. And all this happens when the climate crisis really changes the data and we have continuously unprecedented crises in the agricultural sector with the ices, with the heat, with the "INO", with the fires. So, at the same time, we are faced with the COVID crisis so that we can meet the basic needs of our producers, and we are coming at the same time, housed by the ELGA which, in your day, we all know that it worked two or three years late, voting for the framework that allows us to cover the basic needs in spite of the other problems in zero time for Greek data and for the Syrian data. And you know that very well. The proof was that within the summer, within the great disasters of the fires and the need to be all ELGA valuers and all the Ministry's people on the ground that we were able to give exactly these advances for the frost that we promised. So while we are working consistently within the framework of the budgets that currently allow us the situation of the country and fortunately with the possibility of having the cheap loan due to the credibility of which we have built over the last two years, you are coming and asking for the change. In what? Prices? I think, however, that the answer is simple, that you are not practically seeking to resolve the problems. You want there to be problems, you want there to be concern in the rural world, because only as a party of the 'instead' and as a party of the reaction can there be. You come and say, "How will we make Greek producers more competitive?" But, just last April, we voted together because we heard your thoughts and your proposals, a law that comes to cover our farmers by paying for their products in thirty and sixty days depending on where they belong, namely what category. And we voted for that together. Isn't that a way to make them more competitive and to create a level playing field in this market? In the next few days, within the framework of the law, and as we said in the House, these product lists will also come out. You come and beat the government because it does not create an aid framework for improving the infrastructures of farmers. I am just saying to you once again, because it is useful and crucial that these measures should be developed and heard in the Greek Parliament too, that through the transitional programme, for 2021 and 2022, we have just 1.8 billion for infrastructure projects, precisely to urge and predict and meet the potential needs that will come in the near future. Such projects have to be implemented in our country, particularly those relating to irrigation and dams, since the 1950s and 1960s. So we have 40 million for small-scale and irrigation projects, 43 million - where you hadn't even put up a euro - for the rural roads, we have unlocked many projects which were trapped in our own Ministry in the technical works since 2014-2020. Furthermore, we have predicted 180 million for improvement plans, 41 million for the certification of AGRO, which was something that the producers of Thessaly were fighting mainly, and we did so, 490 million for organic farming and livestock farming, 150 million for the reduction of nitrates in agriculture and last but perhaps the most important thing, we increased the budget to 420 million for young farmers. At the same time, as I have said before, we have anticipated more than 2 billion in our budget for the large projects that we are dismantling and for the other projects that we are starting with mature studies and where we do not have them, precisely for large infrastructure projects so that we can give the rural area what is really in need, which you have not done. At the same time, we are creating a new institutional framework for the GFCMs and TWGs so that we can confront the problems that we are facing today with the current and create a modern framework there, exactly what you have not done. However, in order to be consistent with Mrs Sakorafa, I would also like to refer to what I said in the Thessaloniki Report, which said that Mr Tsipras and Mr Arachovitis had the ingenuity not to say in this Chamber, to intensify the controls on the creation of the Greek producers - this is our policy - that is our policy, it is a key pillar in our policy - a rational, fair, strict framework, of course, for the operation of the market for the benefit of the Greek producers. We can at any time - I will start it today - make a comparison of your days with our days. I'm starting with PDO and PGI products. In my days at the Ministry in recent months, the biggest fines in history have been imposed for violation of PDO rules, EUR 260,000 and EUR 160,000. Some people come and say it's small amounts. Yes, but that's the institutional framework. We can't get over it. So what do we do? In the next few weeks - Mr Arachovitis, you are moving my hand, but you have not put a fine, zero, the fines you have put, Mr Arachovitis, you and SYRIZA - we will build this framework and correct the problem that exists so that we cannot impose a higher fine. But we did. We have set up committees at the Ministry, which on your own days have been inactive in full. We acted, that is, all of this. We've done it with effect. It results in the price of milk, the act of ours. We did what came back - to proclaim Mr. Tsipras at the exhibition of Thessaloniki. What else did we do with the checks? We put one class in, and we've begun and withdrawn large quantities of so-called organic products. We did it with oranges. We did it with chickens. So we protect who? And the real organic producers that we must invest there, as well as the mothers and fathers who give more of their misery so that their children can feed properly. What Mrs Papanatsiou said before. We're doing it. So we have removed the certification of companies that have supposedly produced organic products, we have gone ahead with our preparation for a new legislative framework, which we will discuss and as you know my doors are always open to the good ideas of the future, and we move forward in this direction, which Mr Tsipras has come to an end in Thessaloniki. But let's see something else that's numbered, and it's good to give us a response to your dentistry. Easter, which is a period known for the problems faced by the market and the checks we should have done in 2019, so that I don't go back any further, because the figures were worse if I'm not wrong there were just five hundred checks. Let's see what happened this year. And I would like to thank Mrs Arabaji again for the good cooperation we had, she was in charge of this effort. We did about seven thousand checks this year. So, look, and study to discuss whether you want to, because I am a very decent person, and I am not saying this alone in the House, but now that you are asking us to say it, because these have an impact on prices, and that is what society really wants us to have a rational, serious and fair framework in our country. So let's see how you answer when you did five hundred checks and we did close seven thousand and what their results were. Let's go further. Come a little while and compare what we have done with the controls at the FFET and how many fines have already been imposed in the first semester and see what you had done in similar periods, but also what plan you had for the controls on dairy products, the balances, when we worked pilots and the pilot program have changed the reality of this market with "ARTEMIS" and we are already planning and starting to implement the "PLUS ARTEMS" that will give us even bigger results and not just milk, but we will also go to other products. We always accept good criticism, but we want you to recognise us and the reality and this reality is timely for our producers and especially today for this question, because that is the only way that we have a fair and strict rational framework, so that we do not have these price increases that you say. You ask us in your question what we intend to do for the national strategic food plan. Now we're about to start laughing and you and I together. You know the huge effort we've done. I have a lot here to say, but I won't. If you want, I'll testify to you or ask me one question to come over and discuss them another time. With Mr Mitsotakis' effort, however, we have secured the money, which we had in the previous period, 20 billion, when the rest of Europe lost about 15%. And what do we do? We have come out since the safety frameworks for COVID have been allowed and we are turning all over Greece and we are discussing with all the producers, with all the political parties, with all the associations, with all the parties, with all the exotic, seven-hour discussions. I've already done six me and many more of my partners. No place for SYRIZA. Members of KINAL have come from the other parties, I do not remember now to glean. KINAL has indeed come to two, three of what we've done. The JRC came to Agrinio the day before yesterday, where we discussed similar issues. We haven't seen you anywhere. You don't even come here to talk. I'm calling you everywhere. Why don't you come? And in any case, you might not want to come and talk to us all together, but if you have any suggestions send them to us, we can see what these proposals are. If you think that this framework of 20 billion coming is not a framework, which concerns all Greeks and all Greeks, not only farmers, not only farmers and fishes, then I do not know how to answer you. I think, and I close with this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you have come to the House today with hollow words and no arguments for that, and you have intelligently kept the tons low while paralyzing that you will raise tons and create more general issues. It was a smart second move. The first one was wrong, not because I say it, because you made low tone speeches empty and you were forged by the four ministers you called here to answer you not in big words and voices, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u63	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Chakallato, everyone has his style. In any case, Mr. Georgiadis, who has another style, a little more noisy, had arguments, especially...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u66	He had style.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u67	Now this is a question of taste, my dear fellow Member, but it had arguments and mainly had evidence, as I had, as was the case with Mr Screkas, as was the case with the Minister of Finance. And that's the difference. We want parliamentary control, we want total control from the Opposition, but you should know that every time you come in this way inconsistently and impatiently to the House, you will be leaving with defeats and these defeats will come to recycle your internal problems. And these internal problems, which you have, that is, political and ideological problems, will lead your Chief to chase all his speeches to do only one thing, to spend the election. And that may please you, but it does not please the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the parliamentary process. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos, MP, B1' North Athens Sector, speaks for SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Levane, Mr Skrekas, because Mr Georgiadis is not here, I would like you to convey to him that he is not going to get an answer from me, as he has asked. I'm not at the school's antiquity. It is time to finish with the stereotype that there is a superiority of men. It's time to finish with sexism. The biggest lies have been told by people of the "antiquity" school. Mr. Georgiadis in this delirium about how we destroyed the country forgot a few things, that we did not go bankrupt, that between 2010 and 2014 governments took 63 billion measures to reduce the deficit. They're evidence from the Treasury. He also forgot to tell us what kind of fund he left us if the debt was set. I'm not going to go on with that Mr. Georgian style. Just one last thing about what she said, that Mrs Merkel threw Prime Minister Samara. Mrs. Merkel didn't drop him. The Greek people shot Mr. Samaras. And I think that we will not forget that, because it is part of the historical memory of this people. People are asking for another style, with other arguments. And allow me in my speech to ask a question about who Europeans are, what it means to be a Europeanist at this juncture. I'm starting with the pandemic. 2% of all people in poor countries have taken the vaccine. 2%! The IMF estimates that if this does not change, the next three - four - five years we can lose out of the global economy of $4.5 billion. Also, Gordon Brown, the former Prime Minister of England, counts - because he is now the United Nations mandate for education - that worldwide to vacate all the people of the poor countries need 70 billion to 3.5 trillions. One thing is the accuracy. You told us, Mr Staikora, that part of the accuracy is that the chains of supply cannot respond to increased demand. If we have three - four years when people from poor countries are not vaccinated, will this not continue? But the main issue is humanitarian. Do you realize that nobody's safe if we're not all safe? Do you have any suggestions on this issue that Gordon Brown raises to get all vaccinated in poor countries? Mr. Tsipras, who has just arrived, has taken the initiative for patents for this very matter, because he has understood, as we have all understood in the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, that no one is safe if we are not all in security. What did the Prime Minister say? That Mr Tsipras now wants to nationalise the PFIZER. Is that how we're going to keep going? Is that Europeanism yours? Is Europe's nationalism or the nationalism of the Member States of Europe? The second issue, which has to do with accuracy again. We all welcome this side - I show half the House - the great victory of the people who work for 'e-FOOD' and for the dynamism of the workers and the tens of thousands who have cut cooperation with 'e-FOOD'. And Mr. Screkas asks if we can take European initiatives. Yeah, we're on it. Because this support that we have in an autonomous movement is linked to all the work that our group, the European Left, has done on the platforms, which we have in good time realised that something is changing in this global economy, that it is something new, that both technical intelligence and platforms must be dealt with. That is why a directive on workers' rights has also been passed in plenary. There, Mr Katrin, you have been a little backward by the social democrats, who have extended the right to disconnect for three years. There will also be a directive, with an opinion from the Left Unity Group, which the Commission has incorporated, on the platforms for which the data belong. This means being part of the European Left as a European with a vision, that we cannot have a Europe without rights. Mr. Tsipras, our President, announced a minimum wage at EUR 800. We are again in a European debate. You know that a directive comes with pressure from all the left-wing groups in Europe to bring about convergence of EUR 820, to support the available income, to cope with poverty, to deal with the inequalities, to deal with the accuracy and consequences of accuracy. We're the ones with this current. Are you on what current are you Europeans? Let's go on energy. Mr Stavros told us that almost all countries do not have a large public sector. He forgot to say some good examples. In Germany, for example, local society attaches great importance to the network, as well as to the supply of RES. But should we talk about the first principle? So, what's your vision? Is this your vision of Britain that has privatized it all? Do you know the consequences that this had in Britain with the natural monopolies and the privatisation of the networks? Have they invested in these infrastructures? Did these companies have a great deal of participation in alternative forms of energy, or was their key element in giving dividends to the shareholders? Even Mrs. May was forced in '17 to say that "we must put a cap on prices" precisely on this matter. There is another issue, that when it is public energy can create - an issue that we have discussed, Mr Stakoura - a pillow. Just because the public company doesn't need to give these dividends, it has the ability to be able in good times to raise money and share it with the poor and those who need more difficult. And one last argument we have learned from neoliberalism: After privatisation, when many small energy companies close down and problems arise, as has been created in the United States and other countries, the state will not have to intervene? And you're gonna need to have surgery. So what Europe are we talking about? The Europe that we are together in damage and the profits are private? Is that your vision? Right now, you told us what you're doing at PPC. The Bottom line, which you say in Lamia, Mr Stakoura, is that we did not privatise 16% with what you said and Mr Screkas said. That's the Bottom line. But what happened in the past has happened in the past. Now, right now, with this crisis, do you think this is the time to go to more privatisation of PPC or infrastructure, natural gas networks, without having any tools to deal with it? If you want to cope with accuracy, you must first understand that energy poverty, in general, poverty, climate change and accuracy are a bucket and you must face them all together, with a plan: what do you want to do to regulate markets and energy elsewhere, what redistributive policies you need to pursue so that you can face the fact that inflation is not the same for all the social strata. In other words, there must be a complex approach on the energy market, and we must not, of course, leave monopolies and monitor prices and intervene when we need redistributive policies and policies for the platforms, the minimum wage and all that we have said in the previous debate on tax policy and who wins and who loses from your own policy. You said that in your opinion it was transient. Your approach is that it's transient. If it's transient, then transient measures are needed. Do not come and say that Alexis Tsipras announced 10 billion with your usual practice of adding oranges and lemons, because when some measures are permanent and some other measures are one-off - such as private debt - and some measures are temporary, they are temporary - if we believe what you say, that it is a temporary crisis - you do not compose 10 billion. You understand that there is a crisis now, you can use money for the special fuel tax for example, you can also use the "cushion", because the "cushion" for that is, for transient problems that, at better times, you can fill in. I conclude, Madam President, as I started, what it means to be a European man at the moment. It is not the Europeanism of the "fast, Gerun", of the "wasa, Volfgang", of austerity, authoritarianism and nationalism. Europe must have historical memory. Europe is the area of major conflicts and class and ideas and visions. We have told you how we are trying to unite with European ideas and European moves and things that are being done and we do not have this provincialism, which we do not talk about these big issues, which we consider to be a small state that needs to bend the head and do what others do. We look at what others do, we see the new ideas, we predict platforms and other things that didn't know about two, three years ago, and we make interventions. I think that the debate there is, where we want to take this society into a Europe that can potentially change, with what social forces, with what policies, with what interventions, because that is the only way to deal with the threefold crisis, health, climate and economic. Otherwise, the debate, as Mr Georgiadis put it, may be male and female, as he understands, but they are hollow words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u70	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Tsipras, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, following from the television receivers of the Parliament's network today during the timely - more timely, I would say not - a question from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, I listened to the Ministers of the Government of New Democracy after taking the floor and realized that they should probably be in great despair and panic, because not having to give substantial answers to the citizens, consumers, the Greek people for what they live in their daily lives, most of them - not all of them, of course, in order not to blame them, of course, with the idiosyncrasy and the character of everyone, but most of them - came to this one in order to launch in a particular way - more characteristic of Mr Georgiadis whistling - attacks and insults against SYRIZA. And, of course, all of us, with no exception, gave any substantial response, not to us, to the citizens who are following us, even giving the impression that they have a government plan to control, to harness, to constrain, even to control this wave of precision that every Greek citizen is currently employing, because the majority of the households find it difficult to get through. If I sum up how many times Mr. Tsipras has been said, I have heard my name forty times. It's my fault, actually. You unowned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u72	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Thank you very much. But that is a sign of your great inability to give substantial answers. I don't know if you understand that, but someone who's been watching for sure understands it. We had the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki a few days ago, where the Prime Minister there was celebrating for the wind of optimism that blows in the country. And I one week later warned that all that blows in the country is a wind of wrath and disapproval for your government, anger because the lives of citizens are getting harder and harder, because you were elected government with the promise to make it better now that we have come out of the memoranda. We took the country out of the memorials, you said you had a plan to use this juncture. However, without having any pressure, as we had in the four and a half years that we had, without having any troika, no memoirs, you have managed to immerse the vast majority of the Greek people in the sense of insecurity, insecurity for life, insecurity for work, insecurity for care, insecurity for education, for everyday life, for rent that goes up, for the month that does not come out, for income which is evaporated before even the second ten days of the month. And from what I can see from the way you are trying to deal with these big issues and the hard things ahead - the hard things ahead are not just us - you are facing these difficulties without a plan, with attacks on SYRIZA. You heard last week warnings that this winter will be extremely difficult winter, with the energy cost going up in the sky and when various comparisons were made - the gas price currently costs as if we had seven times above the price in a fuel station, from EUR 1.5 to EUR 7. A match was made to realize, however, the average citizen that the difficult winter is ahead. I repeat, you face these difficulties without a plan, with attacks on SYRIZA. So, only one conclusion safe I can make, that we still haven't seen anything and you haven't seen anything. The wind of wrath and disapproval blows at this time - and you do that you do not see it - almost at every social event and where citizens want to express their feelings towards a protectionist cord that you have built a monoculture of information from majority-controlled - not all - media. If you don't understand that, this wind will be intensified in the next time, bad of your head. Because there's gonna be a hurricane, if you keep this up, cyclone. I, however, have never seen, while I watch political things in the country, a Prime Minister even the days of the memorandum in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, announcing five things and then three days later having to give leaks for new benefits. Why didn't he tell them three days ago? Did he forget about them? Evidently, because all that, Mr. Stavoura, with the non papers you have written in the Ministry of Finance, you wanted to present as wealthy benefits to the Greek people from what Mr. Mitsotakis said at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, because you are constantly measuring, you realised that in the ears of most citizens they are heard aspirins against a heavy disease. And that's why before your celebrations were cut off, you rushed to mitigate the disillusionment of citizens, to do two things: Firstly, Mr Mitsotakis should collect the economic authors in Maximos to ask them not to report on the accuracy of the media, on the unprecedented argument that supposedly when he reproduces the reality of media accuracy, speculators are encouraged, while vice versa. When this is underneath the rug and it's like nothing happens, then speculators continue their work and intensify it. But you think that if you hide under the carpet reality, you'll be saved and you started to leak benefits the Prime Minister forgot to tell us and they'll come to the budget sometime in the elections that will come at some point, if they come, when the rest will come. That's never happened before. You proclaimed a big plan. I will not go into the jokes with the MBs, beads and mirrors to natives for young people. I shall not go into these at all, nor will the OAS programme, and not the very successful ones, which you have announced as supposedly grand plans to tackle youth unemployment and Braid Drain. I shall refer to the issue of 150 million, of your great plan to deal with the scale of accuracy. And you told us that with this package you would face at least 70% of the increases in electricity tariffs, with the EUR 9. And I wonder who you're addressing. Or you haven't taken over the increases and their size that have already begun to be recorded and reached the bills received by the citizens, or you're working with us small gaming. Only the increases in wholesale power - if one takes into account that this story has started since August and will not be completed in December, at least until March - which is expected to be over EUR 1 billion in wholesale. I'm not talking about what's going to go to the consumer. In other words, a cost of more than 1 billion, you say it will be solved at 150 million. The average household, based on self-evident studies that each of us can do with an elementary awareness of the costing method, despite this EUR 9 grant you offer, already sees and will see in the accounts he receives on a monthly basis at least 30% increase and I am epic. And I am not talking about what this increase will mean, which may be even greater, for consumption that on average, in the hard winter months, is obviously much greater than one can calculate them on an average annual basis. And I wonder: Are you trying to get away from this? Are you trying to hide it by spreading a lie and with almost no sign of it on the news? That doesn't make any sense. Because they play it - news does not play it, the citizen will take the electricity bill and see how much increased and compares. Of course, you're always telling us it's not your fault. Almost everything that's going on and you have a responsibility as government to deal with them for the benefit of our citizens, you tell us that it's not your fault, someone else's fault. For the pandemic that we have been in for about a month, a second worst country in cases, but also in deaths - a proportion of the population in Europe after Bulgaria - you are not to blame, it is a global phenomenon. For the fires in the summer and the catastrophic management you have done, which burned half Greece, you were not responsible for the climate crisis, which is a global phenomenon. Alas. In fact, it is not your fault that since the beginning of the summer we have had the indications and evidence that we have had the most expensive power in the European Union in wholesale power. It's not your fault! Even for the remodeling fiasco that Mr. Mitsotakis did, SYRIZA was to blame. It was my fault, too. It's all about people. And I wonder if it makes sense, since in all the critics the elected government is not responsible, why should we be elected, you guys? I'm sorry. Since it is weak to protect citizens from the big problems, what is the point of electing a government, since it is not because of what is happening? So I call on you, Mr Staikora - I address you because I think that the level of dialogue, in relation to your counterpart at the Ministry of Development, is a little more serious - let us choose to see whether or not there is precision and start with it. Let's go to a supermarket, let's go to the people's market, go to a fuel station, to a small and medium-sized business, to a farmer - not Dalton, to someone else who is more earthly - and see how they can get through this reduction in income. I have here on the basis of ELSTAT's data the main price changes from comparison of indicators August 2020 to August 2021. I would like us to stand by, because excessive increases have already been recorded since August in various products, 12% in amnophils, 8% in fish, 7% in olive oil, 21.5% in fresh vegetables, 91% in natural egg gas, 29% in egg-heating oil, 17.4% in fuel. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, how do you respond? You do not give the consumer the slightest safeguard for the first-needed species and you invite him to google to find lower prices when one out of four companies said that they already increased prices in the first half and so many others said they would be forced to increase them in the next six months, according to the GFCM's investigation. Refugee the element that should have taken place for a very long time, namely to intervene forcefully by calling on your office the officials responsible for the Energy Regulatory Authority, asking the Competition Committee to act in order to ensure that there are controls, to stop this cartel, especially in energy, in which, unfortunately, PPC is also involved, in this price rise. At the same time, you do not do anything practical that other governments do. He came to our country last week at the South Summit of the countries of the South, Pedro Sanseth. The day before he came to Greece he announced a package of measures to combat accuracy. Compare what Spain has announced and what you have done. Among other things, he announced - up to a valuation he announced on commodities - he made sure to reduce excise duty to the minimum levels allowed by the European Union. Have you thought of that? Has it gone through your mind as a solution frame, as a prospect of a solution? Have you ever thought of that? We have announced this and blamed us for overcoming budgetary limits, and it is obviously temporary measures. These are not measures which are parametric or permanent which will be the responsibility of the budget from now on every year. Allow me here to go into something equally important, perhaps more structural. Greece is facing, in relation to all the other countries of the European Union, the wave of accuracy on much lesser terms for two reasons. The first reason is that the purchasing power of the Greeks has already been considerably reduced over the past few years in relation to the previous memoranda. The second reason is that you are not in the mood to fight harmonised practices and take measures. I would like to add a third reason to that. Over the last two years in most European countries governments have increased the minimum wage. What have you done and what keeps you from doing it? Yesterday, in Germany, Mr Solts won the election with a 24% minimum wage increase plan. In other countries wage increases over the past few years are linear and go hand in hand with the growth of the economy. What exactly is going on in Greece? Do you want us to remember, as you were sad today, remembering the years of the crisis? What did the Government of the New Democracy of Mr. Samaras do with a law and an article that you so much like expression? He lowered the minimum wage in Tartaras, EUR 192 and EUR 280 for young people up to 25 years, institutionalizing him undergraduate. And then you say why young people don't find your vote, in polling at least and in exit Pols. We took the country out of the memorandum and raised the minimum wage by 75 euros, i.e. 11% and the minimum wage for young people up to 25 years of age 162 euros, that is 27% and promised in the summer of 19 7.5% plus 7.5% in the two-year period, i.e. 15% increase in the minimum wage. How different would the purchasing power of the households today be against this wave of accuracy if our commitment had been made? What did you say in an election on this matter? Obviously, by pushing our announcement, you falsely promised the Greek people that you would increase the minimum wage, and even promised that you would increase it to twice the rate of growth. Am I right, Mr. Stakoura? You had promised in an election that you would increase the minimum wage to twice the rate of growth. If I'm not mistaken, calculate the growth rate for the current year close to 6%. So why have you not announced an increase in the minimum wage to 12%, but only an increase of 13 euros, this shameful increase from 1 January 2022, that is 2%? Why? It's a question. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Who stops you doing this, who keeps you? Are you kept by those who have earned millions of money from the squeezing of wage costs and from the reductions in taxation on dividends and profits, which you have, with galantry, legislated for their own interests in the past two years? Did they stop you? Are you ruling for them or for the vast majority of the employees in our country who see their income evaporated from the wave of accuracy? Finally, what are your plans in this regard? Tell us. I read a number of headlines that obviously come from the panic circles of Maximos after the Thessaloniki International Exhibition that the Prime Minister said was holding it before the elections. Now you're gonna tell us what you're going to do with the salary. Will you stay in this embarrassing 2%? If no, let's see what the level of wages is that is currently needed by the Greek employee and the Greek family, the Greek household. We say a minimum wage of EUR 800. I now come to energy, Mr Skreka, because I have listened to your position, and of course I have heard Mr Stakoura, who has referred to these issues and interviewed you in the last few years. I would like to begin with a simple question: Mr Mitsotakis at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, if I am not mistaken, did not say a word about the increase in PPC's share capital that was announced two weeks later. Really, Mr. Screka, didn't you know this development? Was it a development outside of planning and plans of yours and the Prime Minister? In my view that would be unlikely. But if you knew her, why didn't you announce it, why did you hide it? Why is this reference missing from the big achievements of the government, since you yourself claim that the assignment - why do we use this term - of 17% of PPC to private individuals will, as you say, contribute to the development of the company, but also to the reduction of the cost of energy for citizens? Why didn't the Prime Minister announcing it? What Prime Minister would deny from the Step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to announce such a gift to the citizens as it is so important, as you say? You will allow me to tell you, Mr. Screka, that you are not naive. For all the rest, I can blame you, but for naivety, I can't blame you. You know very well what you're doing and you know very well who you're doing it for. That's why you hid it. That's why PPC's 17% assignment goes on to become lightning and surprises. Like, I suppose, they knew very well what others have done, who have put speculative dance on the backs of the largest utilities company in the country at the Stock Exchange all this time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For nine days after the sale of 49% of PPC's subsidiary, DEDO, rather than the company's share going up, as everyone would have discounted it on the basis of government fairs, it was plunged from 10.5 to 9 euros on 23 September, the day when the stock exchange was closed the increase that PPC will be holding. In other words, to make it understandable to all, small investors buying PPC's shares, assuming that by selling the PPC, with the 1.3 billion that entered the funds, logic says that its price will be increased in the future, some people for unexplained reason unloaded shares packages until the company's share capital increase is announced. In view of the fact that only its management knew about the capital increase - and I imagine you, Mr Skreka and Mr Mitsotakis, unless you tell us the opposite here - and the political leadership with the closest partners, the question is how some internal information took place and sold shares. These are strange things, and I imagine they will try to explain some things to the competent authorities. But we're going to the main theme, because the stock market games are probably the accessories of the big game we have in front of us in relation to PPC. You tell us, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that SYRIZA during his government service has punished PPC. The truth is that under hard pressure and creditors, but also domestic cycles, and political and business, we saved PPC, did not deceive it. We saved it as a crucial asset in the service of general interest and the Greek people. For four and a half years the sale of 17% of PPC was constantly on the agenda of our negotiators on the opposite side of the table and, in particular, the International Monetary Fund. In 2014 this was also an announcement by Mr. Samaras, by breaking then into "small" and "great" PPC, which provided for the sale of 17% and actually provided for the most important assets of the company, such as water, hydroelectrics, to go to private individuals. In every negotiation, then, it was a central point of friction and battle to succeed in keeping the Public Power Corporation under public control. At the same time, at the same time, during the difficult period that we kept PPC's public control, we did something else important. We have kept a PPC with a social person, with a low invoice, without any increases for four and a half years, and with a social invoice for our fellow citizens who have been unable to survive. We've done this by fighting hard and hard. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] First of all, because, in our view, electricity is a social asset and a constant need for every citizen of the country. Secondly, because PPC especially nowadays, during the climate crisis and green transition, is a huge weapon in the hands of the public, in the hands of the state, so that it can organise and design sustainable for the environment and fairness for the citizens the necessary steps towards the future. And why energy is a crucial factor in economic progress. PPC is therefore a critical business for both the fight against energy poverty and the country's energy security, as well as for the development perspective of the Greek economy. And what the lenders, who were sitting on the other side of the table and negotiating with the Greek Government, failed to win for four and a half years, did not even make an open public commitment to the Greek people. We have fought a great battle for PPC to do its social work. We have managed not to increase, as I said, not one euro electricity, but to reduce by 12%, on the basis of EUROSTAT's figures, and despite the transfer to the supreme shareholders of PPC, we have managed not to implement a privatisation plan. What have we had for your days? On your day and before you proceeded with this action, we have had great increases in electricity from the first few months to 20%. The first thing you have done was to transfer to the tariffs of consumers, that is, to absorb the reduction that we have announced and introduced in the value added tax in terms of electricity, from 13% to 6%. After absorbing the reduction, up to 20% were increased. These increases cost consumers about EUR 500 million and led to the accounts for renewable energy, the famous ELPEs in bankruptcy and carpeting. This was the resolution that you have achieved, Mr Skreka, your predecessor, Mr Hatzidakis, and you are now continuing this resolution. In 2020, it was PPC, which led to stubbornness phenomena in the electricity market - in April 2020, sold four times the wholesale price manipulation and then to price manipulation games following the application of the target model in November 2020, as we do not - the Greek industry denounces. Let me not recall that all these great achievements were made after the appointment of Golden Boys to the administration, where they began to receive a great reward of six times as much as the usual fees for the president, the CEO, etc. And now what exactly are you telling us? Now you're telling us the terrible thing about the 34% you're holding is exactly the same as 51%. In other words, you are enjoying the property of the Greek people, a very important weapon, I would say, for the growth potential of the Greek economy, you are putting a key development pillar at risk and saying that this is a resolution. Except that, Mr Screka and ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are seeking to do so in a way that is at the same time highly amateur, but - I would say - and I would say - suspect. You are moving towards a process of depreciating public participation and role in the most critical public utility operation in the country. You assign control of the company and the future revenues you forecast, in a way that is unprecedented for business data. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] And so far I have been speaking to you in political terms - you will probably say: and ideologically - about the common interest, the public interest, how we understand the prospects of green transition with a strong development pillar under public control, the Public Power Corporation. Now I'll talk to you in business terms, market conditions. You tell us that the next five years will be years when PPC will take off. Mr. Stassis, if I'm not mistaken, said that in the next five years PPC will have operational profits close to EUR 7-8 billion. So, what are you guys doing? I had so far heard and known of unfortunate privatizations. Some described them as "exploitation", some in English "fire saling". Am I right, Euclid? Yes, sir. Selling, fire saling. You are now introducing a new condition, the condition of assignment, and even on payment. To speak entirely popular, as the Greek people may speak in the cafés, it is making wisdom as the Greek people speak in the cafés many times: "and horns and bits." [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Watch out now. You give 150 million from the Treasury to assign 17% of PPC. Not only do you not get a single euro. And based on what PPC's own administration says, this 17% in the next five years may be worth 1.5 billion. I mean, you're paying for over 150 million to give up 1.5 billion. What business logic does that have? I am not speaking - and I repeat - on ideological terms at this time, neither in terms of politicians nor in terms of the market. What businessman would do that for his business? Who would choose such a move, lose 1.5 billion and put 150 million over this hour? You are telling us that you are doing this because this is a serious development project. A second question. Who inspired this kind of capital increase? You are moving towards an increased share capital of special purpose, even by circumventing the basic market rules you are constantly professing. You exclude from increasing the share capital the old shareholders. What are you doing this with, Mr. Stakoura and Mr. Screka? Counselor, but answer me, please, after that. What's the point of doing this? You did the same, Mr Staikora, because it is a copy of the model you have attempted to increase Piraeus Bank's share capital. There you had a justification that, since this bank was in fact a debited bank and the old shareholders had not been sufficiently involved in the recapitalisations, it had no point in asking them to do so. Now, what's the excuse? The old shareholders would not participate in the increase in PPC's share capital? Of course, that was an excuse for Piraeus Bank. The truth and the essence are that someone had asked you to. Your private shareholder had asked for it. Who's asking you here? What's behind it? What's your secret plan, beyond the speculative games on the Stock Exchange? What secret plan do you have for PPC? You keep saying: Do not worry, we maintain the deterrent minority of 34%. In reality, however, by giving absolute majority control to the company's shares, you are leaving the door open to aggressive takeover and prosecuting of the public and from the management. I hope you haven't even planned that. You should show it, at least, as an accident. Do not plan to set up a strategic investor through supposedly takeover plans, which will in practice be merger plans and not take over with other energy companies. Time will show. In any case, we have a responsibility to be here, and we warn you. We'll be here, we'll watch you and we'll wait for you. The guards are aware, maybe bigger than you might have, Mr. Stakoura. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will not allow you to mortgage the country's energy future in order to favour friends, fewer and new-fashioned national contractors and suppliers! Listen to this. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are enjoying the property of the Greek people, but it is also outrageously amateur and suspicious the way you do it. And I would like to end by mentioning only the alternatives that existed and you know them in order to strengthen PPC's liquidity. You sold 49% of the U.S. TED. He came to take 49% of the UNDP's fund, which manages money insured in Australia, a fund that we recently learned has passed from Britain as well and left behind two billion in the largest water company in England. And I wonder: A fund that manages the stocks of those insured in Australia with this past behind it can invest in the HRB at a steady yield of over 6%, but cannot, for example, invest, by EKKA, who manages the funds of the Greek insured, so that resources can be pumped and public control over public benefit, that there is an interest in public benefit? I wonder, then, why do you consider it a liberal in the economy to be a one-way investing money, not keeping money and funds that are ponding, so why did you bring a fund from Australia? But of course, your plan was to privatise subsidiary insurance and the money of Greek workers and insured people to go to other funds, who will gamble them without any certainty that they will return them back. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is the casino-capitalism you have in mind. And from this capitalism that you have in mind, what is missing is one thing: to protect the public interest. All in the hammer, it is enough to benefit private interests and the public interest in the older shoes. Wherever we catch it, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that here we are facing an economic, social and political crime. If it's a premeditated crime, it'll be next time. That it's a crime against the next generations is certain. And all I want to say to you, before I come down from this Step, is that, as far as we are concerned, this story will not go through or end with a decision which the ministers of government will not even sign, but some of them well-paid officials, Golden Boys on a board of directors. All responsibilities will be sought and sought in depth. You've crossed a red line. You are now a government that sees and feels what I said at the beginning, the wind of social wrath and disapproval to reap. It has no plan to deal with the serious problems of the economy and the huge wave of accuracy. And all he does now that he sees the end of the days is to set up the grand bazaar with the "silver" of the state and even without pretexts. But you will suffer the consequences of your actions, no matter how long you delay it, whenever you decide. You'll have them in the gallery. Where the popular verdict will give the mandate to form a progressive government to address not only the major issue of social cohesion, but also the major issue of protecting our public interest and our national wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Evening from me and a good week. The debate is well aware that it is organised, but here the President has asked for answers, and I cannot help giving the floor first to Mr Staikoura, the Minister for Finance, who has asked for five minutes to give answers and then I want your consent to be given by other ministers, since the President has referred to many things. Mr. Stavura, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u75	The president of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group began his speech by saying that the government is in despair and panic. You will allow me to tell you that he has used very few arguments. For example, he said how many times we mentioned or mentioned the name of Mr. Tsipras. Never! In my speech, I did not once say the name of Mr. Tsipras. He then said about elections abroad. This probably shows deadlocks politically and ideologically, deadlocks that show that it was referring to European parties and leaders that are not on the Left. I really would like to know what the Left was like in Germany? What were the Left's performances in Spain or other countries? It turns out, therefore, once again that you are politically invaded. You're in a political and ideological deadlock. If we overrun the red lines and, if we sell the public property, make a motion of censure for the Greek people to hear who is telling the truth and who is a hypocrite. But you didn't dare. Mr. Tsipras when he invokes measurements and when he does not invoke measurements. And now he's invoked measurements. You will allow me to tell you that they are probably not too optimistic for Civic Opposition. And by catching the thread from what Mr Haritsis said in his first place, he believes that the Greek people are unfortunate that the rule of the country is in New Democracy, you will allow me to tell you that all measurements, but in particular communication with the ordinary citizen, show that the citizen is glad to say that we did not have SYRIZA in this economic situation and with these exogenous difficulties. Mr. Tsipras said we didn't give answers about what we're going to do about the increases. I am sorry, but I have been placed for thirty minutes with specific measures, and I have said what measures we are implementing to permanently strengthen the public's available income. But worldwide when the citizen's wallet is improved, it can withstand temporary crises. I have talked about specific policies, mainly of a fiscal nature, about what we have done. I have talked about specific interventions in the coming months if the crisis, as we see it, is temporary to deal with this crisis in addition. And I spoke, and much more specifically, of the Minister for Development, about the controls on the market. So we talked to you about a three-pillar, three-pillar pillars with concrete measures that follow and we were absolutely clear about this. There was no leakage for any new benefits. After all, we do not make benefits, but the wealth created by the efforts of the Greek society and the government is distributed in a fair manner to society. So we come and say something very simple: As soon as the country recovers faster and achieves sustainable economic growth with a tremendous effort from society, from households and businesses, under a coordinated and coherent government plan, we will give this effort back as a dividend to society. And this is our aim permanently, mainly through tax reductions and, of course, also through social policy. It is therefore clear that the better the economy goes with regard to the objectives and budget margins are being created, the government and the country will be able to pursue a better fiscal policy, helping even further the middle-class and lower-income strata. Because we are actually helping them rather than verbally over-taxing them with ideologies, ideologies or necessity. I heard about PPC. You said you rescued PPC and we're the only ones who say PPC was in a bad state. First of all, I would like to reiterate PPC's basic sizes in order to come to an understanding. I don't think that's questionable. The company had damages of EUR 900,000,000 in 2018, had losses of EUR 1,6 billion in 2019, went to profitability in 2020 and is estimated to be profitable in 2021. These are the financial elements of the company. PPC's capital value was under EUR 200,000,000 for your day has reached over EUR 2 billion. These are not questionable. Would you like to refer to the report by the company’s sworn auditor in April 2019 to see what state PPC was? And if you say that it was an example of PPC as you left it, I submit in the minutes the report of the institutions on the state of PPC since June 2019. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He starts by saying: “Very much deterioration in the company’s liquidity and profitability. June 2019.’ There's something Mr. Tsipras got, but we didn't get it. He said: 'Even after 34% in the Supreme Court'. What? For your day, you created the Supreme Court, and for your day it left the public sector in 34% and went to the Supreme Court along with 17% who was in the GOI beforehand. So 34% didn't pass because someone imposed it on you. She came in because you created the Supreme Court and left 34% of the government and went to the Supreme Court. Proof of this is that in the announcement that came out the day before yesterday, following PPC's announcement, the superstition and TIAD are coming and what does it say? The High Authority and its subsidiary TEAD have as their main objective the defence of the public interest in 2016 and the creation of a long-term value for the country. In the context of the capital increase, the Overseas and HICP will examine, because they have 51%..." and he says after the reasoning that exists. So 34%'s not in public. 54% is in the U.S. and went to the U.S. in 2016. And don't tell us about a sale of public property because I'm filing in the Minutes forty-seven pages of deprivation and exploitation of public property - your last achievement on December 20, 2018 -- including PPC. I'm putting it down for the Minutes so you don't talk about selling. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said that 34% is not the same as 51%. Obviously 34% is not the same as 51%. But it's worth 34%. And with 34% you remain a key regulator in taking strategic decisions with rights of a repressive minority, which ensures that a large part of strategic decisions will remain under direct public control. And, yes, I have said several examples of companies abroad that the public has a much lower percentage than 34%. You said you didn't actually have 17% of PPC for sale. I think Mr. Screkas mentioned this. In fact, in 2018 in the budget, which you tabled and voted as a parliamentary majority then there is one element here: EUR 100 million from the sale of PPC. What's that? What's that? After you said you had no intention of selling. Here it is and I will submit it in the Minutes: EUR 100 million from the sale of PPC. There is a specific reference to the budget that you submitted on page 135: ‘Total price 100 million, completion of a transaction 2018, benefits of 100 million’. So I am putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said using popular expression: "And horns and bits." You will allow me to tell you that here we have strengthened - PPC, the administration - the value of PPC and we want to invest. It wants PPC to make investments so that it can operate on the next day in response to the challenges and the climate change and the climate crisis that exist, investment for the benefit of households and businesses. "Keratats and possessed" is to be injurious, to have a destructive course, as in the past, and to be committed to selling 17% to go to public debt. We're not talking about the same thing here. We're talking about something different. Irrelevant impulse. You said about the minimum wage and said: 'But since the economy is going to grow so much, why don't you do what you said in the election?' I'm sorry, don't you know that last year the economy had a 8.2% recession? With Mr Tsipras' simple logic, we should do something reversed last year. But is that possible? What we have said is that, following the growth rates of the economy, productivity and competitiveness, we will increase the minimum wage and take the first step this year. I would remind you that all employers, including small and medium-sized enterprises, voted in favour of the minimum wage freeze.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u76	Pick it up, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u77	And, finally, I'm closing up with Mr. Chakaloto. He spoke about Europeans, 'and what Europe we want' and 'how we fight in Europe'. First of all, you talk to a government and a party that, with insight, incorporated the country into Europe and kept the country in Europe in 2015, when you with your creative ambiguity risked taking the country out of the euro. The country therefore has a creative strong voice. How does that prove? First of all, the Recovery Fund. The country is the Member State, which has most resources as a percentage of GDP compared to any other country. This is demonstrated by the negotiation of tax reductions. And can I tell you something? Recently the head of Eurogroup, Pascal Donahue, came here. And what did he say? "I want to recognize the excellent work done by the Ministry of Finance for the Greek economy and note...", note, "that Greece's role in Eurogroup and the voice of the country...", the country, I repeat, "...in very important decisions it enjoys great respect and recognition." Do you know how important those words are? ‘Respect and recognition’. These have been lost for your days. Finally, because you have also made a reference to whether we are helping other countries with vaccines and what we are going to do with vaccines and if we do not resolve the issue with vaccines in other countries and we are present here. The country has returned to normality. In initiatives by the International Monetary Fund to support the poorest countries Greece participates in all of these initiatives by contributing to their respective support funds with regard to the poor countries and by strengthening vaccination in the poor countries. So we are participating, putting resources in place, precisely because we are now taking part in strong-voting decision-making centres, with a realistic voice, with a rational voice. In conclusion, we are pursuing an economic policy which has visible results. We do not triumph, but with moderateness, confidence and strong voice we are working to achieve strong and sustainable economic growth, create many good jobs and strengthen social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like, please, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u80	On the basis of what Rule of the Rules of Procedure do the Ministers now take to question? Talk forty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u81	There is no article in the Rules of Procedure. Let me be honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. Mr. Tsipras mentioned in name to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u83	Yeah, that's what he said. He wants the floor on personal grounds. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u84	The staff, Mr Katrin, are in the words of Mr Tsipras on the level of the Minister of Development, which is not similar to his screams. Does it make you a personal one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u85	Go ahead, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much. I would first like to turn to the staff, and I am addressing Mr Tsakalotos, who is also a gentleman. Indeed, my voice is a prick, Mr. Chakaloto. It's a natural feature of my voice. Is that a reason for Mr. Tsipras making fun of me? Aren't you fans of man's diversity that have various features and protect them and highlight them? Is it a reason for every speech to speak of a real physical feature of mine? After all, my natural feature is mine. I don't imitate someone else's voice, like Mr. Tsipras of Andreas Papandreou to get votes. It's mine. It's annoying, but mine. Well, tell him, 'cause his home treatment didn't teach him that the physical characteristic of a person as annoying as it may be, is not making fun of him, because then you're embarrassing and a worse word. But I mentioned Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u87	Will Mr. Georgiadis teach us how?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u88	I have referred to Mr Tsipras on a very specific point, which you did not answer and did not answer, however, Mr Tsakalotos either. And I'm reading it, and I'm filing it in the Minutes, and I'm closing down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u89	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u90	It's for my level. The first was the screaming voice and the second level.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u91	The whole of Greece knows your level.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u92	And yours, thankfully, and apparently, they appreciate me more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u94	Alexis Tsipras: "Mr Zorba..." responds Tsipras at the ICU, "...summering the numbers, the growth figures. You refer to 16% in the second quarter of 2021. However, this figure results from comparisons with the corresponding second quarter of 2020, which country was in a universal lockdown. The country in 2020 had a recession of 8.2% and was the second worst in all of Europe, in the Eurozone, and this year it has a growth in the second quarter of 16%, as you say. It is a very pleasant event and welcome, but if you look at the comparisons with the other countries, we are the last. They have a much higher rate of growth in the corresponding quarter.’ It's over. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsakalotos, because Mr. Tsipras does not like my level, but he did not reply, I challenge you to answer what your Chief at the ICU, and I also submit the table in the Minutes to see the Greek people. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greece, Mr. Chakaloto, is it in the last place? So, where is the country of Croatia, or is it here, in position six? Is this Mr. Tsipras? Is it a letter? Can't he even read the alphabet? He doesn't know how to read a painting? I put this in the Minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u96	And I beg you very much, Mr Tsakalotos, because you have also referred to me, to that particular, whether Mr Tsipras said truth or lies, and why he did so. And because he referred to Spain with a very large veil, I want to say two things. Spain has 3.2% inflation, when we have 1.9%. He's got twice as much of us. So Spain is not a model for us. As regards unemployment, however, because it brought Spain seven to eight times as an example, Mr Tsipras - take today's table from EUROSTAT. In the second quarter of 2021 Greece is here - so as not to be confused again - in the second place with the highest number of new jobs, i.e. to reduce unemployment throughout the European Union. It's a second. Previously, do you know which country it is? It's Spain. Take the last country you called it eight times. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing. You will never be able to exercise normal opposition that the Greek people deserve to have if you do not learn to read numbers correctly. Mr. Tsipras said that Mr. Stassis referred to PPC at 8 billion profitability in the years to come and made a reason that how you sell with 8 billion, 17%, and that's where you're doing the rushphetti, etc. Mr. Stass never spoke of 8 billion profits. He talked about 8 billion investments that PPC will make. I imagine that you can understand the difference between PPC's 8 billion investments - and whoever puts the increase will participate with the money in this investment programme because it will believe it - and the 8 billion dividend profits. One is cost, you pay for your investment at 8 billion, the other is dividend, you get from 8 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u97	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u98	I'll be right back. Why am I telling you this, Mr. Chakatte? Close him in a room, make him a regular tutor. It's been the same aloe Tsipras since the first day. He came to Parliament and said again a lot of nonsense about PPC that he doesn't understand. Proof is that it did not understand that investment and operating profitability are no more. And when he finds out from the beginning, we'll see you again. For he said the unimportant one, and I close, dear Christos and dear Costas: "This is why you are not given a vote from youths according to polls." Come on, Jesus Christ! The man who loses in all polls of all companies from 2016 until today and who in other polls throws him twelve and fifteen points, has the nerve to take lessons in New Democracy about polling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u100	From this alone, understand what degree of intelligence we're talking about and whether or not he can watch my level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u103	Here, Mr Chakalote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u104	I am not going to answer Mr Georgiadis, because I cannot go down to a level where a minister says a former Prime Minister and everything he has said. I really think that the Bureau needs to protect this Chamber from such controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u105	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u106	Secondly - and I say this now - the tolerance of this Bureau - I am not saying it just for you - to the ministers has no precedent from 2012 where I am here. Mr. Catherine said so. I remember that when I was speaking as the Minister of Finance and had twenty-five minutes, everyone from Mr. Voutsi to all the Vice-Presidents gave me thirty to thirty-five minutes. There is no speech from Mr Stakoura, who has twenty-five minutes and will not speak at least forty minutes. From there on, we think he's spoken a lot. I am not saying that for you, Mr Stakoura. I say that there is a major problem in how the Bureau manages the relationship between the speeches of the Members and the Ministers. I would ask you very much to pass this on, because it is completely out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u107	I promise you that the Conference of Presidents will raise a matter on Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u108	He talked about how many minutes Mr. Stavros and then in reply to Mr. Tsipras spoke another fifteen minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u109	I promise. Be well. Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite Mr Tsipras' splendid appearance at the end of today's question and despite his attempt to present the so-called anger and indignation of the world, of society in danger of making tsunami against the government, one wonders: If - what you obviously dream of as a dream of summer night, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA there working on the polls - this anger and indignation you receive is true, then why in all the polls, as the Minister of Development said, your difference is gloomy from the party that governs and is third in suit, Mr Tsipras after Mr Mitsotakis, which we have to manage, and these successive and major crises? And would anyone wonder, even if you do not believe in the polls, that you are using them as well as your arguments in general, when something is of interest to you is white, and when you are interested in the same thing, it is black - why is Mr Tsipras not trying to appeal to the popular verdict to reflect this rage that is in danger of being tsunami? Because the seriousness and responsibility of the opposition and Mr Tsipras on the request for elections is obviously beyond them as well as the whole of society, because your seriousness and responsibility we have seen in previous years, unfortunately, and the Greek people have lived on its side, not only in words, of course, but also as implemented policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u111	Mrs. Arabatzis, you won't have time for the question. Our point is different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u112	You'll give me one or two minutes. So it would be better if the President of Officerial Response instead of discovering every three and a little so-called anger and indignation of society, to think about why society turns its back on Civicism and why citizens turn your backs and why in all measurements negative opinions for your party exceed 60% and reach up to 70%. All the estimates unfortunately fall out of you and your stress leads you from one mistake to another, as this is obviously the first time in time, which the opposition has more damage than the government even though this government has and has to manage genuinely serious crises with a lot of responsibility and wisdom. However, in today's speech by the honourable Members, I have seen them bewilderable. And I say this because you will not face inflation with a law and an article we have heard that international energy and freight markets will dance your own pace. This, of course, does not mean that SYRIZA's well-known populism has been missing from your speeches today at the national delegation. On the contrary, populism and, of course, your effort to talk as if it were not you who ruled from January 2015 to July 2019, as if you were not really the ones who increased VAT on basic foods, which increased fuel tax, which increased dramatically the cost of production for farmers and farmers who are now shed crocodile tears. Because, really, I'm going to ask you if your memory is so short or so unrelentingly made available to lie. Are you or are you not, today, cut off - let us say - for farmers and say it in your topical question, where did you increase taxation to 45%? Are you or are you not the ones who tripled insurance contributions as a second tax for farmers and of course for all the free traders? Are you or aren't you, who made 55% of the deposit at 100%? Are you or are you not, who caught you the pain in feedingstuffs that you came and raised 13% to 23% and 24% to fertilisers and animal feed, and did New Democracy then have to come as a forceful opposition to bring you an amendment to return VAT to 13% in fertilisers and feed and this amendment to adopt it badly and leave it with 13% and 24% others with 24%? Mr. Arachovitis spoke of the interest of Officer Representation in island and mountainity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I really wonder: Was it or was it not the Minister for Rural Development, in particular, Mr Arachovitis, when that infatuated plan was released to effectively abolish compensatory compensation in hundreds of villages and mountainous and disadvantaged settlements throughout the country and was New Democracy, when he revealed your secretly-provoked consultation on this abortion that you prepared for mountain and disadvantaged areas and took the plan back? So you come to say today about the increase in feed prices, when Mr Mitsotakis comes in and reduces it to 6%, and even on a permanent basis. What do you mean, now? That your 24% is better or more satisfying than our 6%? On the contrary, you said nothing, I heard nothing about the positive commercial agricultural balance, which was first noted on our own government thirty-six years later. Thirty-six years after the agricultural sector had a positive figure of 510 million euros, after a rally of exports of over 7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u113	Mrs. Arabatzis, slow down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I need two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u115	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u116	I really did not hear you say anything about the increase in sheep and goat milk, the pillar of this rural economy, which is livestock, from the 70 and 80 minutes of your own tax policy towards farmers in 1,20 now that producers are currently concluding contracts. I heard something about icebergs Mr. Arachovitis was saying. Is Mr Arachovitis forgetting that farmers and farmers, farmers in this case, have called on dairy enterprises to come and get their icecream, why didn't they just get out and sell or slaughter their livestock? Did you forget that, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation? As a government, obviously, but also as an official opposition, what we did not hear and which we do not hope to hear, of course, is self-criticism for your actions. But, as a government, and as an official opposition, I will say - and I will not go away - that we remember, for example, what you said when the pandemic crisis came into Greece in the spring of 2020. At that time, you criticised the government for not supporting businesses, the world of work and calling for a forward implementation of the measures. What were we telling you then? That since no one can predict the length and depth of the crisis, our Government, the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis, is progressing wisely. We said that we would take every opportunity to support society, business and workers. We made our commitment to "whatever it Takes", to remember Mario Draghi, who we hosted a few days ago in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u117	Complete, Mrs. Arabaji, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u118	The result, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the 42.5 billion euros, the largest support programme for the real economy, almost 9 billion from the non-refundable to its largest advance payment place in businesses, 3.4 billion costed and targeted by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis at PPC, one of the best performances, according to EUROSTAT in maintaining jobs and the marked resilience of the Greek economy, to pass this year on to the impressive growth rate of 16.2% in the second quarter of 2021. Who's the denominator in all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u119	Please, Mrs. Arabaji!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u120	I'm closing, Mr. President. Societies and effectiveness. With these two principles we are also facing the new crisis of this imported inflation. The ministers have developed with data and data how the planet was led to this crisis and how the government closely monitors developments and takes the necessary measures to shield and enhance incomes through short and long-term measures. I'm closing up saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u121	No, no, Mrs. Arabatzis, you don't have any more time. You've spoken four minutes longer and then you have thirteen times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u122	...foresee that you are interested in the housekeeper's basket, but all you care about is the "basket" of polls, where you are unfortunately staying and will be relayed for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. You're welcome, though. Of course, the mistake didn't start now by you. This is where the Chief spoke forty-four minutes instead of ten minutes. And the ministers spoke. But we should slowly begin to respect the others who are waiting for, because then there are thirteen topicals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u124	You're the ones who run the debate, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u125	I'm not just saying it for you. You should know I'm speaking in general. Mr. Michalis Katrinis from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, in fact, to express my indignation about the indignation and the slippery path of today's debate with the responsibility of the President of the Parliament, Mr Tasoula, whom I see now, because he is in a turbulence and therefore allows the Rules of Procedure to be broken and to speak for five hours only ministers and MPs of the ruling party, to speak for Mr Stavros and Mr Georgiadis over an hour and not have the right to be here now to listen to the rest of the parties. I am indignant because it allows discussions to take place in this way. That's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u127	I would like to say that they spoke for thirty-six minutes, Mr Katrin, so as not to hear things like that of the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u128	It is a shame to violate the Rules of Procedure. Only Mr Screkas is currently respecting his institutional role. That's the reality. It is shameful that what is happening today is that ministers come to make stigmats on Twitter, Facebook or on the evening news newsletter and turn a parliamentary process into a parody, just for communication purposes. Unfortunately, this is happening too many times and that is why I am sorry, Mr President. I think it is not your responsibility, but your overall responsibility for the Bureau. And obviously the first responsibility for what the President of this House has to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout Europe the outstanding one seems to have started to move in reverse and European citizens turn their backs on the conservative right and the absolute domination of the markets, because they recognise the need for a social dimension of the economy. In our country, of course, we are behind developments in relation to the rest of the countries, since there is a dominance of the logic which re-introduce methods of governments of other decades, as the government has said. That is what government policies at work show, that is what government policies are showing in education, that is what government policies are showing in the functioning of the markets. Today, we had a theoretical discussion on the issues of accuracy, which was transformed, mainly by the government, into confrontation on the obviously major issue of PPC, where there are responsibilities, and on how some funds seem to have been disinvested a few days before this increase in share capital took place, but also in relation to the nature of PPC's energy increases and how a company that the government claims to maintain control, but that does not occur, can act protectively in the public interest and for consumers. We have heard from the government that everything is well, that our economy is going very well, that the rating houses say that the prospects are very prosperous and that social cohesion is being strengthened. We also heard from the Finance Minister, who a week ago said he would do a committee to call the bankers because they don't give money to businesses, talk about increased credit extensions to housing loans. That's political courage! Of course, we have also heard the argument that there is no need to worry about accuracy, as all this is absorbed by the reductions in taxation and social security contributions. Finally, we have heard from the government that increases are transient, that increases are smaller than in other European countries and that there is no reason to worry about consumers from the measures already taken. Of course, if Greek citizens and those who see the wave of accuracy in supermarkets, peoples, energy costs, fuel and movements were to see this debate every day, they would really wonder if the participants had a sense of reality. The first question, which would be asked to those who today say that there is no accuracy, that it is a normal phenomenon and that it is an incident on the world scale, is whether there is indeed an increase in basic foods, energy, materials, feed and crop costs. Is it or is it not true that the monthly basket for a three-member family has increased 10%, asking questions as to whether this family can have the same eating habits? Based on the statistics from the euro area statistics - it is a website supported by the European Central Bank - Greece is fourth in the European Union with an increase of 3.3% in August in food and drink. Of course, the speeding up of the investigation by the Competition Committee, which was carried out on 9 September, clearly demonstrates that things are not going as well and as smoothly as the government wishes to present, at the same time that the Inca itself is talking about increases, which are also camouflaged for the same amount, but less so. The second question to which the government answers with such certainty is this: is this a temporary phenomenon? Is it transient? The government is saying that we will be going through this in a little while. However, I see today's interview with Mrs Lagard - since there has been mention - which says that the increase in electricity prices will continue, even when the other problems in the supply chain have been removed, and the President of INKA says attributes: 'Fumarra what the government says. The accuracy will continue in 2022’. So the Greek consumer asks: What does this government do to protect from this accuracy, which characterizes it as a 'natural phenomenon', which he considers is not so important and, anyway, says that it will last for a very short time? The Government has set up a Price Observatory. It explains the reasons for inflation, without, of course, having done something about it. After all, the government itself in the budget said that we would have an increase in private consumption, trying to substantiate the growth of GDP in 2021. Now he says the increase in consumption brings inflation. The government was suddenly surprised by this. So the citizen asks this: does the government exercise its institutional role? Does he exercise control over the market to see if the consumer is protected? There are sixteen press releases from the Ministry of Development, the DIAMEA controls illegal trade, controls the implementation of anti-corn measures. No press release, no real action to control possible cowardice phenomena! Indeed, Mr Georgiadis said earlier that he has implemented a market regulation since March 2020 on market control, with Article 21 of the MDG on 20 March 2020, which had been renewed - and let me be discredited by the Minister - by 30 June 2021. In other words, the time available on the market - in July, August and now - there is no renewal of this article. In fact, Mr Georgiadis himself predicted that by his decision he could fix a maximum selling price to consumers for goods and services. This provision - because it did not say so - relates mainly to medicinal products, personal protective equipment and personal hygiene, where someone must denounce to intervene by the Secretariat-General in favour of the consumer. So, what is it that proves? It turns out that the Government has done nothing to protect the fierceness, it does not control the market, it does not respect its institutional role and, obviously, it cannot be the investigation of the Competition Committee, because at some point in the Government it must be clear whether it is an independent authority and operates on its own, or is carrying out checks on the initiative of the Ministry of Development, as the Minister of Development said indirectly but clearly today. Here, therefore, the government has completely abandoned the role of the state for market control and consumers remain unprotected. The only announcement is the grant of electricity to 9 euros a month, when the final charge will appear - and Mr Screkas knows - at the beginning of next year, when expectations will not be confirmed because the electricity increase rally continues, because the electricity price on the basis of which the cost of the 150 million was charged after 200 million was with 95 euros in MWh, when the PPC sold 160 euros to MWh on 22 September. In addition to the communication on electricity costs, the Government does not control the market and reduces VAT on essential foodstuffs. Greece is in sixth place in the European Union, as regards VAT on basic foodstuffs. Nor does it apply a reduction in excise duties. I say this because in many countries we have a reduction in VAT on basic types of consumption, such as bread or dairy products. Croatia has 5% for bread and milk, France 5.5%, Spain 4%. Latvia applies 5% for fruit and vegetables locally produced. Unfortunately, we have no intervention in this area in our country and certainly do not seem to have any intention of doing so. I shall conclude, Mr President, by half a minute and thank you very much. We didn't hear anything about the cost of using mobile data. Greece is the most expensive country in the European Union and in the OECD with regard to mobile telephony data costs and has the lowest speed based and yesterday's DIGITAL EU survey. That's what the government says. Shares 50GB only for those vaccinated. It does not interfere with a cartelised market, such as the mobile telephony market, and certainly does not seem to be interested in the inertia of the Committee on Telecommunications and Posts. Unfortunately, everything is left on the autopilot. The rises will continue, despite the expectations of government officials that they will be by the end of the year, and the citizens will continue to feel defenseless and unprotected in a country where private debt is growing, as well as in due course and where the economy, despite the fine words of the Minister of Finance, does not seem to be so solid in terms of businesses that do not have access to liquidity. Nevertheless, the government considers everything to be going well, everything is under control and there is no cause for concern. I'm afraid you're in another reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u129	Be well, Mr. Catherine. As for what you said at the beginning, I won't say you're wrong. However, let us say what you said about the one-hour speech, that Mr Stakoras is entitled to thirty-five minutes and spoke forty-seven, Mr Georgiadis is entitled to thirty-five minutes and he spoke for thirty-six - they have left, because Mr Screkas is entitled, because he has spoken only thirty-one minutes - Mr Lebanese is the most disciplined and has spoken for twenty minutes. The "an hour" we fly is not right. To tell the truth and no problem. I'm not saying you're wrong. The ministers shouldn't have spoken at all. The truth is, no matter how we do it. Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u130	I would also say to Mr Katrin, but also to SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, to contain their enthusiasm for a change in Europe, because the SPD is a tested party in the implementation of barbaric counterweight measures. In fact, when the rule is that everyone wants to go with everyone to form a government in Germany, we understand how much the European Union is changing! On the contrary, it is confirmed as a wolf alliance for the peoples. But let us come to the debate on SYRIZA's topical question. Although we are now discussing five hours, the reasons for accuracy have not been dealt with by any of the speakers. We will try to approach exactly what these causes are. First of all, is this because we are dealing with the accuracy in our country with the development model which all governments have defended so far and which they are sworn today that this must be based on the use of comparative advantages and on extroversion? Does this productive model have an impact on accuracy? Of course! Huge! Why? Because taking advantage of the comparative advantages means that a number of our country's productive potential is being destroyed. They are not exploited because they do not have a high profit rate, not because they have no profit. So we have to resort to imports of raw materials and intermediate goods, as well as to finished goods. Imports and prices of imported products also depend on the strongest competitions of supply chains internationally and also on the competition of multinationals. And the logic of extroverty the same results when a number of products that are not enough to meet the needs of the Greek people go abroad. What's the result? The rest of the quantity is even more expensive. That is why it is responsible for the model you are defending in fact. And it's not a temporary, but a permanent phenomenon. Is the European Union's policy really responsible? Of course, the policy of market liberalisation is a key factor. And go to electricity? A policy served by all the governments and PASOKs and SYRIZA and the New Democracy, the liberalisation policy leads to expensive invoices so that the introduction of private entrepreneurial groups in the energy sector can be attractive. Huge scandalous subsidies to private enterprises, green energy predators, expensive electricity for the people, and even the creation of mechanisms that perpetuate expensive electricity, such as the mechanism brought by the SYRIZA Government for the electricity market, where wholesalers can buy cheaply, to sell after dear. This is how the stock exchange works and the SYRIZA government imposed it. It led to the shrinking of PPC and its operation under private economic criteria. For disinvestment SYRIZA spoke, a series of PPC production units to be given to individuals. And of course, today he can blame the government and wonder where the model found through the increase in equity to privatise PPC, a great business. He copied SYRIZA's model, the increase of share capital in the recapitalisation of the banks that the SYRIZA government has made that has banned the old shareholders from participating in this increase, so that the public sector's participation collapsed in the four systemic banks. So, the same model, the SYRIZA model, is currently being applied by the New Democracy Government to move on to the dangerous development of further privatization of PPC. It is the policy of green energy. To impose green energy, they apply much expensive fossil fuel charges, so that the energy becomes much more accurate because of precisely these fees. It is the policy of defoliation, which you support all other parties, effectively abolishing the use of domestic fossil fuel, lignite, to replace it from imported gas as a transitional fuel. And you all agree that natural gas must be the imported transitional fuel, because it cannot otherwise be supported by the stability of the system, so that the country's energy dependence is even more increased. It is the political choice of the European Union and the chapter on the green transition that will lead to overcompensation for overcompensated funds and over-profit, for more expensive goods and services, for green goods and for increasing even more social inequalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is, however, also a series of other options that some consider to be a medicine, but in the end are proved to be a pharmacopoeia for the people. The expansionist monetary policy, which SYRIZA and other parties applauds as a progressive option, says. But the expansionist monetary policy results in inflation that consumes popular incomes and is responsible for the new waves of precision. Another factor is taxation. Who have over time imposed all this diversity of indirect taxes - VAT, excise duty - which vents the prices of goods and energy to the height? And to avoid a misunderstanding Mr. Tsipras made it clear that it would be temporary, he says, a reduction in excise duty. So the redistribution of wealth from the less poor to the poorest will continue. In essence, accuracy is nothing but a temptation to bleed people's incomes. The solution is not that all this false discussion is being held on the level of minimum wages. Which labour market are we talking about in the lowest wages? In the working jungle imposed by all governments to date in our country, where there are no working hours, where there are no sectoral contracts? In this labour market, we are talking about lower wages, where, in essence, average wages are even shrinking, because this is what counts, where works contracts, time contracts, part-time work? What is the impact of all these developments? No one at all. We need to see the real income available and the real income available is not determined by a nominalisation of wages when it can be consumed by taxation on income, indirect taxation, commercialisation of health and education. So it's not a question of which pocket will you steal the employees' money, but no more employees and employees steal that money from them? In order to highlight the essence of what I say: Mr Tsakalotos welcomed the European Parliament's report on workers on the platform from here, because you want to support the workers' struggle in the 'e-FOD'. Is he making fun of us? Is this a joke? This report was passed by the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Greek Solution. All of a sudden they want to support workers' rights or confirm once again that they have chosen a camp and are the political staff of the economic oligarchy? What does the European Parliament's report say? That every solution, he says, must respect the status of workers on the platforms that are truly self-employed. This ensures the status of self-employed persons. If you're an employee, he says, you have to prove it in court. So here is the extent to which the European Parliament's reports and European directives respect workers' rights. The Commissioner responsible for employment has answered a question from our MEP that the Hatzidakis Act is really in line with the acquis communautaire and best practices. That abort. And that is precisely what best practices and the acquis communautaire are, you want to apply to our country and the rest of us. So what is the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u131	Finish, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President, with a slight tolerance, as you have done with the other parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u133	Little tolerance I gave you four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u134	Please let me finish. I'll be done in a minute. For a minute, the world won't be lost when we waited five and a half hours here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u135	May I say you're wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u136	We say this clearly, that he is responsible for worsening the position of the people's strata is not one or another management form. It is the same system that you are defending, the capitalist system, which its development leads to even greater expansion of the lane and social inequalities, which creates phenomena of poverty and social exclusion. With subsidisation policy microsprings to manage the extremes of poverty, this is not the cause. On the contrary, all these political management proposals, aspirins, want to cultivate deceit in the world, entangle him in the choice between Scylla and Harybdis. We say clearly that the people must react today before it is too late, because the programme of the next government in our country, whatever it may be, is a given in advance and it is already known from this point of view to organise their struggle and hit the real causes of accuracy, that is to say, hit, mark and target the real opponent, which is the action of capital and capitalist profitability. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u137	Be well, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. To add to what I said before, that tolerance is not only to the ministers, but also to the leaders of the parties who have had no exceptions. Mr. Tsipras had ten minutes and spoke forty-four and forty-nine. Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, more generally in the debate that was the first time before, I see a country sinking into deficits, debts and in fact, with its Government referring to successes and triumphing. It literally reminds the Titanic just before the iceberg conflict, where in first place the master and the officers had fun drinking champagne. As for the credibility claimed by the Minister for Rural Development - I think - Greece has acquired only because of the fact that the lenders are sure that this government will dismantle and sell everything, that it will not leave anything standing, and will also give what is requested. For the EUR 42.5 billion that the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has said, it would be well to complement it with credit. Always put the word "in loan", is important. In today's question it was submitted in time in the summer at the beginning of the dawn, when the Minister of Development said he had discussed with the Bank of Greece and it was a temporary phenomenon, while we had anticipated it much before having warned several times. Moreover, the phenomenon of realisations is in the world's full shape, with the Government calling on the small and medium-sized enterprises that have suffered from the memoranda, which do not have access to bank financing or who pay it extremely expensively, not to increase their prices so that inflation is not triggered. Obviously, they will pay this damage by supporting government policy by the next elections, and also by their workers, who are already collecting degrading real wages to avoid demanding inflationary increases, i.e. increases that would actually run the upward spiral of wages, prices, wages, which is the main cause of inflation. But how is this going to happen without the small and medium-sized enterprises going to go bankrupt, which are proportionate to Europeans as we will testify in the Minutes? No more, as the Minister of Development wrongly claimed. How will workers survive without wage increases, when rents have been valued over 10%, food up to 30%, or PPC's accounts are sold up to 50%? However, the irresponsibility of frustrating what Germany and other European Union countries do not do at a lower energy cost than Greece, where the government wants to fly out of the window over 230 billion euros, is now clear, and even the government-friendly Mr. Mytilinaeus confirmed it. On the other hand, Visual Anti-Population is suggesting price support with subsidies, but without mentioning how much it will cost and while it is aware of our country's huge debt, as well as its financial derailment from the imposition of useless lockdowns and the waste of the government with borrowers. The Prime Minister in turn told the Thessaloniki International Exhibition that price rises are an imported problem, but that is only logical because we import everything last and even electricity. In continuing, does it have some economic logic to give just EUR 183 million to the primary sector that the government is now supposed to support, as can be seen from the data in the medium term for the pandemic, that is, from EUR 41.5 billion, only EUR 183 million or 0.43%? Is it not a shame to mock our farmers like that? Does the government think it is enough to reduce VAT, which is already offset? We have mentioned the predicted appreciations of basic goods and the importance of our primary sector since the first day we entered the House. We mentioned the food shortage in our country, the food crisis that was clearly deleted in the future, the importance of energy adequacy, the risks of energy dependence, the threats of speculation and the 'blackout' with the energy stock exchange and so on, but without the government giving any significance. Why? Because it has been mercifully followed by the orders of the lenders, and all she cares about is that she can borrow to renegotiate power, because she is not interested in Greeks and next generations, but next election. In the question now, in the very short time available to us, as regards the household basket, there is unfortunately no other possibility today of reducing VAT on direct relief for citizens, while in the long term the solution is to redesign our economic model with domestic production and limit our dependence on imports. With regard to the primary sector mentioned in the question, our agricultural production is, unfortunately, constantly falling to 10.9 billion in 2018, from 12 billion in 2005, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. We have mentioned many times, among other things, through technological development, with applications where jobs could be created for graduates in automation, cultivation, smart agriculture, artificial intelligence of crop management, seed bank, etc. The same and worst happens in livestock farming where in 1980 we entered the EEC, our self-sufficiency in pork was 85% and in a calf at 66%, it has now fallen to 30% and 15% respectively, even importing fish from Turkey, where many of them are fished in our own Aegean Seas. Domestic milk production accounts for only 50% of our consumption, so that we import milk, even from Germany, while feedingstuffs accounting for 67% of production costs are also imported. In this respect, having discerned the problem in good time by increasing feed prices, we tabled a question, proposing even 'futures', future contracts, that is to say, to keep their costs lower. The graphics - we would say - response that we received was that the Ministry cannot manipulate the world market, while when we proposed something similar for the energy, the director of PPC told us that he does not want to play the Greeks' money on the stock exchange. If possible with this ignorance, our country will survive. Unfortunately, rather than pandemic being used as an opportunity to support our primary production, especially since the European Union has authorised special businesses up to EUR 125 000 per farm, the government has done absolutely nothing, and this European Union programme clearly refers to the cover of operating costs and is extended to food processing, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. We have mentioned energy many times, seeing from the question that others now understand the logic of our positions, stressing again that every 10% drop in energy prices is increasing GDP directly and indirectly by about 2 billion, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. The opposite will be true to the rise, and again the only way to directly support businesses and households is to reduce taxation or subsidies, but also to have serious budgetary consequences. Of course, when you're wasting all your resources, you don't have any more in it and you get to the edge of the cliff. Then there are no rational solutions, and the forecasts of increasing the basic interest rates, the end of the liquidity programmes of the European Central Bank and the return to the primary surplus status should be taken into account by 2023 at the latest. To conclude, by surviving a country with loan from election to elections by serving foreign interests and by in exchange for what they are asking for from the sale of everything to national sovereignty, it is certainly not a solution, since it leads to our looting and full enslavement, literally the change of ownership status of our country, both in terms of public property and private property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mrs. Fotini Bakadima is called to Step from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, electricity is a basic good, a good that, as defined in economic terms, is inflexible. It is an inflexible asset in demand and this is because, while its price rises, since it is a good basic for living, consumption is not also reduced, contrary to all other goods. That is why it is a good that is a provocative desire of the oligarchs, as its privileged monopolistic or oligopolistic exploitation means to those guaranteed over-profit. After all, we have seen it, not once or twice, private entrepreneurs doing everything they can to manipulate the market in this really valuable good. On the other hand, it should be a good, when this is produced and offered by businesses operating as public utilities, to be their ultimate objective, public utility and not speculation. The Greek Energy Exchange, passed in 2018 by the SYRIZA Government, was a milestone for the privatisation and commercialisation of electricity, making it a stock exchange, on the price of which fewer people gamble with obvious negative effects for the majority of the people who end up paying the electricity expensively. In addition, the Union decisions of the energy market integration framework, the export orientation of production, the compulsory abandonment of lignite use and many more have contributed to the imposition of the industry's ‘liberation’. Hence the then government of SYRIZA mentioned the central objective of establishing the Energy Exchange, the association of the Greek market with the other Europeans. The framework of all these movements was also set out in Directive 72 of 2009, which was quite clear to the objectives of liberalisation of the electricity market. In fact, if we look at the accompanying texts of the directive, we will see clearly the purpose and, more generally, the reason for creating this whole framework. Unfortunately, although the so-called objective was to balance the supply and demand of electricity in real time, the ultimate objective was to reduce the business risk of supposed investors who could freely gamble. Furthermore, it has been allocated - it is not now, it is a process that is slowly completed - the right to investors operating the Energy Exchange to make public what they want and what they choose from their transactions, invoking commercial secrecy, and even these incomplete elements may not be made public at all if the RAE decides. Based on the arguments of the SYRIZA Government and all the Memorandum parties, the Energy Exchange Arrangement would strengthen competition and transparency, with immediate benefits in reducing energy costs and ensuring better prices for households and businesses. But what happened? What has happened is to link the domestic market with the other Europeans to ensure that groups and industries are over-profited and, on the other hand, to bring about further difficulties in accessing the good of electricity by the majority of households. At the same time, in addition to the game that we had on the Energy Exchange that launched wholesale prices a few months ago, the Mitsotakis Government has already arranged to open the ‘knocks’ of funding for the oligopolists of energy through every possible source of liquidity extraction: the Recovery Fund, the ESS, the loan with state guarantees and, of course, has arranged to shape the entire institutional framework required by monopolistic groups to implement their investments in RES, natural gas, energy transmission networks and much more. The price shells we have seen start and continue from June to today at wholesale prices will be directly affecting and affecting prices that consumers will pay at all levels. First victims will be PPC's customers, but also private providers that have agreed to apply indexation clauses to their invoices. In order to entertain the concerns, the Government has attempted to link increases with the heat, rise to other countries and prices of raw materials. Unfortunately, however, they all show that the increases are here to stay. I will soon be through and will only need your tolerance for one minute, Mr President, on the matter of accuracy. The Secretary of Mera25 Yiannis Varoufakis announced our four main proposals to deal with accuracy. That is what I shall refer to, and that is what I shall be closing down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Firstly, a maximum VAT rate from 24% to 15%. Secondly, automatic indexation at minimum wages and allowances, using not official inflation, but the price index for small and medium-sized households, with the exception of the 30% income ceiling for the population. Thirdly, cancel all increases in electricity prices by abolishing the Energy Exchange, socialising the former PPC, canceling the sale of the PPC and progressively renationalising PPC. And fourthly, fines imposed by the Commission on supermarkets for the timely opening of the supermarket prices and prices of their suppliers. Merra25, ladies and gentlemen, even when official inflation was negative, it explained that the inflation of many was not only positive, but also large. Now that inflation is officially positive, Mera25 does away with all meaningless communication cohorts between the two major parties of the New Democracy and SYRIZA - a final example is today's process - proposing the only real policies to address accuracy, because that is what it needs, from policy proposals rather than communication policy. That's what citizens need, that's what people need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Of course I will not apply the Rules of Procedure, I want to be fair. There are some who are not entitled to speak, but I will beg as soon as possible. I won't put a plaque in time, because no one is entitled. I'm not going to talk about me, just to tell you that the next one of me will catch midnight. Do you want to respect it? Respect it. Mr Alexandros Haritsis has the floor by the questionable Members of the SYRIZA. Everyone will talk, everyone who's here. Mr. Haritsis, do you get three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u142	I will try to be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u143	Try, you have skills, you can tell them in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, a great deal has already been said. I must say, of course, that it is a parliamentary procedure in which Members must have it first. We have had a process here which, unfortunately, did concern the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u145	And your Chief spoke forty-four minutes instead of ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u146	Okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u147	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u148	It is not a question of you, Mr President. Don't take it personally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u149	I don't take it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u150	It's not reproaching you. At some point we have to look at it as a Parliament and see it as a conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u151	Yes, it will be discussed within the conference. I've promised Mr. Chakaloto, and I'll do it. But the time does not matter, in my opinion. It's a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u152	You're absolutely right. There are colleagues who have been here since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u153	Here, Mr President, we have had a debate on an initiative taken by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group two and a half months ago - this question has not been tabled today - precisely to discuss an issue which is, at the moment, the most topical if you want to see Greek society, an issue which concerns every household and every business. Unfortunately, I think that the debate that has taken place, and the government's responsibility for this is very great, is a debate which is very unfair to the criticism of this issue because no responses have been given to very critical issues. What was it, if I have to codify - and I don't have time - the tripartite which the ministers of government used? Temporary crisis, international causes and, obviously, domestic responsibilities belong solely to SYRIZA. That is what we have heard from the government, unfortunately. As to temporaryity, I wish it were. I wish this crisis was temporary. I'm the first to say that. But, you know, politics is not done with wishing, it is not done with the 'blessed'. The point is, how are you interfering - that's what we said in my first speech - to prevent these phenomena. I must tell you that it is very worrying, in my opinion, because the Minister for Development also invoked them, but referred to earlier statements by Mrs Lagard just the day before the CNBC, which says that the crisis especially in the energy market is here to stay and that this crisis will not be temporary. It is very worrying because we know very well that the current price crisis ultimately affects the entire economic activity and society as a whole. So when we have such statements from the head of the European Central Bank, I would expect these statements to have ringed bells to the Greek Government, especially to the Greek Government, because - we have said so before, but unfortunately we have not heard - we are, after a ten-year crisis, the most fragile economy in the Eurozone and an economy in which the energy issue has been historically very crucial for its development. We have even heard the Minister for Energy tell us what our European initiatives are. Really? The European initiatives of counterpopulation? Is that the issue in today's conditions? We have presented to you and presented the figures and the initiatives taken by France, the initiatives taken by Spain, the initiatives taken by Portugal and the governments. Unfortunately, we have not heard anything from the Greek Government. Of course, because there is a great deal of talk about recovery and so on, Mr Minister for Finance, I told you earlier, and I did not say what you said in your speech. I said that the government should not go ahead, on the occasion of a statement by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dobrovski, on austerity and recession measures. In my yesterday's article, which you can see, I'm talking about how welcome the nominal recovery is. But the question, Minister, especially in these conditions that we are facing today is whether this nominal recovery will turn into real growth for citizens. That's the point. And unfortunately, with privatisation, with deregulation measures on the labour market, with inertia for ideological reasons, which we have explained earlier, in relation to the issues of dishonesty and accuracy, it is very pessimistic to hear about who this development will ultimately be about, whether it is about citizens, whether it is about the social majority or about a few and abundant. We and the initiative that we have taken on this debate raise the issue throughout the political dimension. The question of dishonesty will be central to the Greek society for the next time. Either the government puts aside the ideological obsessions and will intervene decisively, adopting the Anti-Population proposals to be fair not only to SYRIZA, but also to the other anti-Population forces in relation to market regulation, in relation to the protection of the most vulnerable layers, in relation to the need to reduce certain tax burdens to address specifically the problem in the energy market, or I am very afraid and close, Mr President, that the next time we see will be what ELSTAT already captures the Institute for Labour in GSE. What do you mean? Nominal recovery, but among those who benefit from this crisis, who are the few, who are the strong, and the social majority, who are even poorer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u155	Minister, please. We've made the leaf and feather regulation. You won't answer now. Answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u156	By the time the Step was cleared, I'd have answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u157	It's not like you call it. It's the process and we'll have problems again. Mr Socrates Famelos also has the floor by the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after several hours, it is true that no answers have been given. What the government has not understood is that, in today's debate, it is not just the Members of SYRIZA, but it must respond to Greek society. The Greek society expects to hear from the government what it will do about the issues of accuracy and I have actually heard nothing. I have heard fatal pay and have heard this fatal acceptance by the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the international environment and the difficulties it faces. But certain measures have not yet been tabled by the government. And to tell the truth, we have not heard even when this measure of EUR 9 per month will finally be legislated. On the other hand, the ministers are coming, and I am really sad at that, Mr Skreka, and you are criticising us that we are not in favour of climate policy. So I will remind you that SYRIZA is the one that brought the National Energy and Climate Plan in 2018. SYRIZA is the one who made the competitive procedures for the RES, the law for the energy communities and too much you're stuck with. But is it not shame that the New Democracy, which behind the hollow and false liberation, has led thousands of people already, unemployed in western Macedonia and Megalopolis to serve private gas-fired power companies that are not carbonisation? Why don't you make a policy on green energy, about private natural gas units, and be clear about it. But you have not brought us any proposals for the new National Plan for Energy and Climate. We didn't hear anything about climate law. We have not heard any proposals for household relief, for social tools. Because your Government, not to forget them, has rejected three SYRIZA amendments in this parliamentary term to support vulnerable households during the pandemic period in order not to cut the current, not to cut off the gas and to have access to these essential goods. And are you criticizing us about social tools? When the government of SYRIZA was the one that reformed the social invoice, we doubled the discount, we created the Reunification Fund. Let's talk about it because SYRIZA did this. And it was too late for Mr. Hatzidakis to activate them. Of course you did not even answer the basic tools, such as excise duty. Will you help reduce costs for citizens and businesses? Will the NGO be returned to the energy bills? We're still waiting for you to tell us. Mr. Hatzidakis said that these reliefs would go away. What about the Fair Transition Fund? And this is drafted by SYRIZA for the lignite regions, but it does not go any further. What is going on, Mr Skreka, and I shall put it to you, Mr President, in the Minutes. The manipulation of electricity prices, which affects the competitiveness of Greek industry - publicity - and price manipulation as a threat to competitiveness. I shall read, Mr Ministers, which makes it a special impression: 'The reality that is being formed today six months after the start of the market is disappointing, as instead of reducing energy costs there is an increase, which is due to an orderly launch of the cost of the balancing market, to specific practices of producers, who are exploiting design omissions and errors in the design of the market, a market that does not exist in any modern European market and which has now acquired characteristics of established oligopoly'. This is the situation, and the Greek industry says so, Mr President, in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also want a reply on the PPC issue. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece today it is evolving, a crime with express procedures is being committed. It is a criminal practice to give the majority of the share capital to individuals and it is a criminal offence that you are doing so by means of a process of increasing share capital and you do not even come here to ask the Greek Parliament with an express and urgent procedure. "Shoot, wipe, you're done." Within twenty days, the Greek public and the citizens will lose an important part of their property and even within a period of accuracy, when basic goods and, in particular, the electricity are affected by great increases. We need to make it clear that this is not just about PPC. The same happened in the natural gas network. The same was done with the concession of the Greek Petroleum administration. The same goes for the DEDEN. In fact, you have given the TENER or given the procedure for giving an entity that has a stable return of 7%, much higher than any loan and any bond loan. And there is no answer yet to the question: why are you not going through this entire process of investment in the Recovery Fund designed by Europe for this process, since the gas network and the electricity network proved to be highly efficient, in other words, giving revenue to the Greek society? But you're telling us you need money for an investment project.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u159	And finish it, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u160	And we wonder: Since PPC's administration tells us that there is a functional profitability of about 1 billion a year for the next seven years, why don't you finance the business plan there? As long as he says he's going to start paying a dividend, so he's gonna pay a dividend and lose the majority? I don't know if you know exactly what they're doing. You will not follow the Recovery Fund. You will not make use of the certain revenue for network performance. At least in the investment plan, will you tell us what fuel Ptolemais V will work and when the lignite will work and when the gas will be? Why, in order to understand the adequacy of planning, the New Democracy Government currently has an investment of 1.5 billion and has not decided for two years on what fuel it will operate and when it will return to lignite. They said 2028, then they said 2025, and we wait to see. One and a half billion euros! The lack of excellence is this, so that I do not write another letter between 'a' and 'r'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u161	And please hang up, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u162	But I'm clear and closed. For this crime that is being committed in PPC, for the sale of energy infrastructure, there are political responsibilities and responsibilities for PPC's administration. That is why the process of increasing equity is now required. Because politically we say it and society will say it and the trade unions will say it: the Greek society needs a PPC that is its support and not to sell the support and the property without even having any profit and no benefit to the Greek society. We expect specific answers. In fact, in energy, what financial tools are you going to activate? How will citizens be reduced? Because that of EUR 9 in addition to the fact that you have not yet legislated, we tell you in advance that it will not cover one third of the growths that will exceed a month in households the average consumption of EUR 40 per month. We are therefore waiting for specific answers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u163	Thank you. Mr Stavros Arahovitis is called in Stepma for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the valuable efforts you have made - in fact, we recognise this - to come out of a difficult situation, a situation where society expects answers from you, all you have managed to do was show your concern and your panic, because substantial responses to the issue that we discussed today did not give you. What you said was opposition to opposition and crowns that everything is going well. As to what you are thinking of doing, to recognise that something is really wrong and how you will deal with it, we have not heard anything, unfortunately. On the contrary, we heard some of your colleagues celebrated that tourism went great. From the 33 million we went to 6 million tourism, without telling us what revenue was from tourism this year. That it went better than last year, which was a year without any tourism, does not say much. At least modest, at least modest. You are also celebrating investment. What investments? The "Greek", which you said the next day will begin the works and the bulldozers? Well, that's more modest. Mr. Georgiadis, of course, was in LAOS and he might want to forget at the time. But what do we do? Some things we have to remember. Remember the first and second memorandums with infinite padlocks, unemployment at 27%, cuts, taxes, pension cuts at 50%. Remember Mr.3863, who was matured every three years, that is to say every three years, by an insurance category? Remember that Law 4172/2013, which taxed farmers from the first euro and with your colleagues' questions, proves that it was a means of all subsidies and allowances? We must remember all this because it seems to me that you think you are addressing laurels, but this people have a memory, they also have a crisis. Remember, too, that in TEBE, contributions to the free professions were EUR 450 and 500 a month and what had accumulated from debts at that time? Should we also remind ourselves who abolished duty-free on freelance professionals? You guys are cut off for the free professionals and the middle class. Remember, too, after your return from July 2019, what did you do? You imposed the green fuel tax, an unnecessary fee, because the fund was really surplus, you managed to make it a deficit, and you imposed a green charge on the fuels of farmers and all people, all users of energy, fuel. And you imposed sprinklers on fishing vessels with the measure. Do you remember that? It's recent. From 1-1 this happened. As a measure, fishing boats. You celebrated the programs, that young farmers' programs were coming out. Finally, let's see a new program coming out of your own government. So far, they run and are paid for programs that have come out of the SYRIZA government. It'll be the first program you'll make. You have accused us, Minister, of not participating in the dialogue. What dialogue? What's the matter with you? We've called you from the beginning here. We have asked the Committee on Production and Trade to present us with the course of the national strategic plan, to discuss and submit our proposals, because we have told you many times that the national strategic plan for the new CFP goes beyond the mandate of one government. Therefore, the reason for the consultation must first be the farmers - in essence, institutional - in their formation and, of course, opposition, which will be the next government to implement it. For the Greeks. What did you tell us about the Greeks? Everything that has been done by Hellenisms, the cases you've caught, has been made by complaints between companies. It has not been done by the services that have dismantled them, by the coordination of services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u165	Did you get one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u166	That's right, Minister. What can we do? I may be upset, but the truth has to be said. Everything that's happened has been done by complaints between the companies. And what you've imposed are fines - fox.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u167	Did you get one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u168	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u169	Minister, excuse me. You haven't even exploited Ms. Tylorido for the milk we made. You haven't even made use of the law of your own. We have asked you a question and you have not answered us. I mean the law of your predecessor, Mr. Voridis, who turns him into a felony. Why fine - emerald? We've asked you and you haven't answered us. You have a legal arsenal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u170	And slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u171	And I close with one more thing, one last thing for the disadvantaged areas you mentioned, Mrs Arabaji. We didn't get it back because, if we had taken it back, we wouldn't have paid the programs that are being paid today. Farmers are paid, because the disadvantaged regions have changed by the 2013 regulation, which we made on 1 January 2019, so that the programmes can be paid, as they are paid today. They are paid precisely because of the work we have done, which is based on the 2013 regulation. And one last thing, which we will be tabling in the Minutes. We've said it before from this Step, but you don't want to understand it. In the development of the price of sheep and goat milk in Europe and Greece in the period of SYRIZA governance, the fall was less in Greece than it was in Europe. We have managed and retained the prices of milk. On the contrary, by closing the five-year cycle and raising prices - you will see the curve - in Europe, the price of sheep and goat milk in Greece did not follow with your signature and your governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis is called at the Step for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the fact that, as I said before, we are asking questions and we are calling parliamentaryly on the question of accuracy for too many months now, despite the fact that the question we are discussing was tabled two and a half months ago and you are coming to answer today, we have waited for it to be put forward in order that these increases which are suffocating the Greek economy will somehow be controlled. However, the ministers have produced and talked about the excellent and great successes they had over the last few years in the economy, which, unfortunately, have not been seen by the vast majority of our fellow citizens. We have heard about the cost of borrowing, we have heard the other dreadful, that the available income has increased because you have increased the minimum wage. How did you really do that? The minimum wage will increase from 1-1-21 and you have already increased the income of the fellow citizens. That's really magical! You said too much, but that was outrageous! You have also spoken about increased exports. Let's see what's going on in export. What does the President of the Association of Industries of Greece say? It says that Greek exporting enterprises will either continue to carry out their contracts by facing huge losses due to an increase in energy costs or will be forced not to implement their agreements and find themselves unreliable on the international market. So go to the people who export and face these problems, since for the housewife and small and medium-sized enterprises you are not interested, talk to exporters and tell them that it is a temporary phenomenon and "what happened to you losing your credibility or will you not be able to execute your orders?" From that point on, most ministers have spent the longest time convincing us that increases will be a temporary one, so we should not do anything, instead of presenting measures and actions. So we all agree that we will come to this Chamber after three or four months and see the current prices for pasta, juices, rice, bread and they will be reduced if it is a temporary one and they will be reduced respectively to the amount that has been raised or taken over the next period. It is obviously a temporary matter which does not concern you, and I imagine that in the next few months we will see prices plummeting. Of course, it has already been mentioned that the President of the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagard, who says that the accuracy of energy will probably last longer than the pandemic, does not agree with your assessment. We would all very much like to believe you in comparison to what Mrs Lagard says, but we really are skeptical. The Minister for Energy has omitted to say that the issue of growth is not today. We read November 2020 in the international press and say that our country from the nineteenth place has been in its twelfth place in November 2020, without all the reasons you mentioned in the previous period. So look better at your own responsibilities for launching current values. The Minister of Energy also mentioned and smashed SYRIZA's discounts on the consistent consumers. Do you disagree with the discounts introduced on SYRIZA? Why were you electorally telling us that this measure should be extended to other sectors and to banking and other sectors, today do you disagree? In conclusion, the Minister for Development commented on everything other than the increase and even commented on the letter from Mr Varoufakis' President, who spoke too long, but found little time to comment on the interview of Mr Samaras, the former Prime Minister, on Saturday, who blames the government and not much for retreat and self-determination. Didn't he find a minute to answer these harsh accusations from the former Prime Minister, Mr. Georgiadis? And by closing, I want to comment on something else. It was heard by Minister that our country has now won respect and recognition by European partners. On a bad day he made this statement, because in the morning we saw Mr. Pikramenos talking to us and remembering the old 2012 and 2011 and the others about how respectful European leaders and other partners were at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u174	Mrs. Catherine Papanatsiou is called in Stepma for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, six hours we are discussing and all those listening to us are sure that what they have gained is that we are not going to win anything. We didn't get any answers. We have, of course, received from some and disdain for women MPs. You've made an honest effort. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Georgiadis personally that "it" by Volos is an elected MEP of the Greek Parliament, but I expect nothing more than a policy of Mr Georgiadis's ideology than to treat women in a different way. But what I wonder is for the tolerance of the members of the government to these perceptions. As far as the tachograph is concerned, nothing. It was also mentioned by previous SYRIZA MPs who spoke. Since the beginning of this month, Mr Georgiadis has been downgrading increases and I would also like to see in secondary or tritology what he will do, in any case, to tell us whether he is proud to have done so and has fallen into prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u176	Don't bring him back to me now, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u177	In this respect, today we are getting out of here convinced that SYRIZA is the fault of everything that the government can't do and prevent. Opposition to opposition, then. We are leaving with the impression that everything is fine, the best of the other countries of the European Union, is not so great in the household basket and in energy. The Minister for Development is proud and the Minister for Finance is talking about numbers, about SYRIZA privatisations, and so is Mrs Arabaji. It is convenient for New Democracy to forget the modern Greek reality by 2015. It's convenient, but it's very funny. Be sure that citizens have a goldfish memory. Today we are keeping the wishes of the government that the appreciations are exogenous and will be temporary. So you won't interfere. Congratulations! On the other hand, we will continue in parliamentary control to highlight the needs of society. We have already asked a question about the EQUIPMENT programme and the impact of price increases. I'll see you very soon. We're waiting for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much. I will give the Minister for Rural Development two minutes, Mr Lebanese, and then Mr Screkas will be closed. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Thank you for mentioning that I kept the time. I think if we all do this, and most importantly the Chief of Officerial Response, who has exceeded his time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u180	All the Chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u181	I think it had ten minutes - if I'm not mistaken - and he spoke about an hour. You understand what that means.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u182	Forty-four.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u183	If he doesn't talk here, what will he do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u184	Who limits him, my dear colleague? In any case, what I am saying, because I believe it very much - I say this as a Parliamentary representative, and now that I have the honour of being Minister for this government - is that we must and can express our opinion within the timescales, precisely so that dialogue can work better. It is strange, however, to criticise those who are violating exactly these regulations. In any case, and because Mr Arachovitis referred to something that bothers me not directly, it is not a personal shot, because it is very decent and we have a very good parliamentary relationship. However, he called the debate the public, which we are doing all over Greece, a fiesta. Mr Arachovitis, I have not become a reality anywhere, nor will it become a reality of our own party on a subject which we consider to be crucial for the next decade both in the agricultural sector and in the wider context of Greek society and in the development of the country. We have invited you, therefore, and other opposition parties have responded to come where farmers can really talk, to come where the voice of the people they are working for can be heard. I first said in this House that we will come to the parliamentary committee to have this debate. But, before we get to the parliamentary committee, we must have heard of living society, we must have gone to the ground, and that is what we are doing. That's why when you're wondering and Mr. Tsipras says if we go to the fields, but that's what they'll tell him in the fields. They'll tell him what the reality is, they'll tell him you have a government here and a ministry that comes with us. The problem is, she's not going to the fields, because if she went, if you took him, then she'd have a much better picture. From that point on, in relation to the checks, I don't want to spend any more time. I think it's very interesting to have this conversation again whenever you want. We're at your disposal, aren't we? - and officially at your disposal for suggestions creative. Now in total, I want to say that because I am watching this House very much and I think that it is being followed by a world of opinion and society below, I believe that, in fact, this debate has come to two concrete conclusions, which are also the result of most discussions in this Chamber. Firstly, in that SYRIZA remains outside political and economic reality. He's stuck in the past. He's stuck in his opposition period to come to the government. It is impossible to follow the development of society, but it also fails to monitor the shift of political and political dialogue into rationalism and realism. This is a real problem, not only because we see through an important and economic and social issue like what we have come to discuss here today, that your inadequacy is not just at the level of the alternative proposal for a government solution, when and whenever the elections come. Your inadequacy is to be able to articulate even opposition. You come here - okay, that is your right - you are scattered, but you are not giving the Greek people the opportunity to hear and discuss these specific issues. You're really out of place and time. Another thing has been proven, which we have often seen in this Chamber in recent months, that the government has also a sense of responsibility, has an anguish, but it does everything possible, so that it can solve problems, such as what we are debating today, to form a comprehensive policy framework and to develop a development strategy for the country and, therefore, prosperity for the citizens for the next ten years. In this dialogue, we will always be here. But in this dialogue, we call on you to enter and I think it will be useful for our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u187	Please, Mr. Arachovite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u188	Only three seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u189	Please. You're putting me in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u190	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u191	Please. You know how much I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u192	No, Mr President, you will not give the floor because I have asked for the floor, and you have not given it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u193	I haven't given the floor to Mrs. Arabaji, who wanted to answer you. Please, you're putting me in a very difficult position. He didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u194	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u195	That's right. I'd love to give him to you, but I've refused to a lady.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u196	You decide. We'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u197	Why are you doing this to me? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u198	For thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u199	You won't be 30 seconds and you know it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u200	I'm a lacquer and I always keep track of him. There's no such complaint. You count thirty seconds. For the 'pretext and fiesta', Minister, remember the fiasco made in Tripoli. Remember the fiesta in Thessaly. Do they show a dialogue with farmers? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u201	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u202	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u203	Here's the place we can talk about. The institutions, if we respect farmers' bodies, can be called. One last thing to say. When you say we're not going to the fields. We go and Mr. Tsipras goes to the fields. We meet real farmers, cooperative farmers, businesses that produce, model units and do not go to friends and friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u204	Look at the damage you've done now. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u205	Because Mr Arachovitis, who has also financed the Minister - I said "in particular", former Minister, is registered and you cannot deny it - that you came in September 2018 and brought a plan from the university on how to share the compensation with the exclusion of a number of villages and settlements in mountains and disadvantaged. It was fortunately New Democracy, you took it back and you streamlined it, because nonetheless, with regard to what was the case, many communities, which were mountainous and disadvantaged, were left out of compensation. The documents are available, Mr Arachovitis, and here we shall speak with documents and documentaries. So saint were then the farmers and farmers who were opposition by the New Democracy, as the saint proved to have been in 2019. Alas, if it were you in things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Arabatzis. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. I think I will be brief, because after the second language of my fellow Members from the Qualified Opposition, we have not become wiser. They didn't say much more than they said in protology. Ladies and gentlemen, if you now want to compare the strategy of our New Democracy, our Government, the energy transition to environmental protection or the carbonisation of the energy sector, but also of the Greek economy, in relation to the plan of the SYRIZA Government, it is very simple. I think one can take the national energy and climate plan, which you submitted in 2018, towards the end, which was, of course, a check and obligation arising from the European Commission's directives and regulations, to take the national energy and climate plan, which we tabled about a year ago and to compare what we say and what you say, what we say about carbonisation and what you say, what we say about carbon and lignite, and what you say. You were pulling lignite and coal by 2035-2040, while, as you know very well, we have moved to 2028 to have a total withdrawal of lignite plants and thus contribute to the European objective and European vision to be the first climate neutral continent by 2050. Why are we doing this? Is this some kind of whim, is it some kind of dogmatic view? Not because, at the moment, the big problem and the great crisis that is stirring up humanity and has already arrived is the climate crisis. You didn't say anything about it. You didn't say anything about what you were going to do. Of course, after the speech of the Chief of Officer's Representation I think they're circumcising and overcoming the words because it really proved you're out of reality. But I won't blame Mr. Tsipras for that. I will truly be blamed on the one who prepared what he read and on the one who explained them to him, which unfortunately did not explain them to him well. There have been too many, verbal acronyms, huge inaccuracies and gross mistakes. Anyone who gets the speech of the Chief of Officer Response and runs the line - line really will be able to write a book about failures and gross errors, which this position includes. But I have retained six basic "margaritas", which have been heard. It's a lot of things that have been mentioned, but I'm going to stay in six. First, what did the Chief of Police say? He accused and called on the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis because at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki he did not declare the increase of PPC's share capital. Immediately afterwards, he comes in and accuses him of allegedly having speculative games, because this information leaked and some people might have taken advantage of it on the stock market. This is why there is, of course, the competent independent authority, the capital market committee, which does and will do its job to investigate whether such unfair practices do exist. But I ask: Is it possible, at the same time as you suspect and denouncing that there may be a suspicion of leaking this news, on the other hand, of denouncing and rescinding the Prime Minister of Greece, why has he not announced it, in other words causing such stock exchange games and games through the announcement he would make at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? So you understand that what you say does not have the beginning, the middle and the end. On the other hand, the second ‘margarita’. You said and wrote to the Chief of Administrator's Response to say that the LNG should be reduced to fuel, gas, so as to reduce the cost of electricity to households. Where does that come from? Explain. You're smart people. Also in France, which has nuclear plants, which do not emit carbon dioxide, so they are not charged with gas-fired charges, so do not have expensive fuel, tell me why the electricity price is more expensive than Greece? I'm going to tell you another example, a more cryptic. In Norway, 95% of electricity comes from hydroelectric plants. Why is electricity prices on the European average there? You have unfortunately not understood how the energy sector is working in Europe. Under no circumstances shall it be ensured that the reduction of the excise duty on natural gas will result in a mandatory and proven reduction in the cost of electricity to consumers. What did we do, on the contrary? We, ladies and gentlemen, have done what was very simple, as long as you understand how the energy sector works. We have taken money, made use of resources from the tenders of the pollutants that we have secured to make up for without being left to anyone and went directly and subsidised the electricity consumers' accounts from 1 October and with retroactive effect from 1 September. Don't rush, you'll see. A short psalm of each other. So, if it's possible, you're afraid it won't happen? There you have finally arrived, really trying to turn the night into a day. Let's go to the third'margarita'. He said the Chief of Officerial Response - it was heard - that 8 billion euros of profits were expected by PPC through the increase in equity, and so 17%, 750 million is too little money. You still cannot separate what investment means - Mr Georgiadis said so very well - and what profits, operating profitability or net profits before taxes. Fourth ‘milk’: the old shareholders will not be involved! The PPC's decision and communication specifically states that of course the old shareholders will also be involved in the increase in the share capital. And that's a gross lie. The fifth'margarita', which concerns Mr Tsakalotos. Mr Tsakalotos said that the model and strategy that we have followed as a country for the structure of the energy sector is not good. There are other models that are better. For example, Mr Tsakalotos says, it is the model of Germany, where even municipal companies are involved in distribution and production networks. I ask you: do you not know that electricity in Germany is 70% more expensive in households than electricity in our country? You don't know that? Could anyone not tell him not to bring this example, because Germany has one of the most expensive electricity prices in Europe in terms of households? The sixth and last "margarita": What did the Chief of Police say? Listen to what he said! He said that on government SYRIZA, despite all these difficulties with the memorials, they managed to rescue PPC. Did you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, manage to save PPC, give it life? In September 2014 PPC’s share price was EUR 11,3 and its stock value exceeded EUR 2,2 billion. On October 19, 2018, PPC's share price - after three years of successful SYRIZA governance! - It had reached 1.17 euros. From 11,3 euros had reached 1.1 euros. Ten times down had dropped PPC's price after three years of very successful SYRIZA's government that saved and rescued PPC! Of course, in 2019 PPC had accumulated 2,5 billion euros over the last two years in your very successful strategy in the energy sector and a rescue strategy for PPC. This is the great announcement made today by the Chief of Officerial Opposition and really wants a lot of courage, he wants a lot of courage, and he wants enormous ignorance for someone to come from the Step of the House and say these things to the Greek MPs and the Greek people. So we are here, supporting households in need of electricity prices. We recommend - and you said nothing about it - the Energy Transfer Fund that will be a permanent depreciatory mechanism and will enable us to really support in future exceptional situations with high electricity prices and not only vulnerable households and all Greeks and Greeks. Of course, we are here through a series of investments, as I mentioned before, but also serious mechanisms that we have put before the European Union for approval, so as to ensure the competitiveness of the Greek industry, the Greek production base, the Greek small and large professionals in the years to come and, of course, to support the European decision to carbonise Europe's energy mix, to zero the carbon dioxide emissions and so to deal with climate change. This is what our government is doing, it is done by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis who is pulling forward, which supports the big decisions, which he sees a lot ahead of us, unfortunately, from where you and that way we go. That is why you see that at least today the Greek people think you are inappropriate - because you did not know when you were ruling, you do not learn as long as you are in Anti-Population and it ranks you - at least for the time being to take over the fates of the country. On the other hand, you see that we have a government and a Prime Minister who makes the right decisions, stable and honest, and that is how we move forward and growth comes. Of course, we also support those who need it all along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on number 25/20/16-7-2021 of a topical question, on the subject of: 'Immediate need for initiatives to tackle price increases in primary, agricultural and livestock products and energy. To stop the migration of growth to the final consumer.'
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today the following topical questions will be discussed with a general number: 1072, 8403, 1075, 1081, 8108, 1068, 1062, 1063, 8432/686/4-8-2021, 1066, 788. The sixth question, under number 1068/20-9-2021, on a second question by MP B2' West Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Konstantinos Skreka, on the subject of "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water supply and sewerage" will not be answered because of lack of competence. We begin with the third question under number 1072/20-9-2021 in the second cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Standarding the presses of the former workers of the Hellenic Vehicle Industry (“ELVO S.A.”). Mr. Stoltides, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your Government, in turn completing the catastrophic work of all the previous governments, transferred to the business groups the former "ELVO S.A.", causing very serious negative consequences for the workers, the defence and the economy of the country. This option is another link in increasing dependence on necessary instruments for the Armed Forces by multinational and domestic groups. It is also known that the New Democracy Government, but also the previous governments, are in line with the European Union's strategy, which in this area provides for and prefers construction war industries only in France, Germany and the Netherlands. A company with a time-consuming major work has been reappointed and closed on the basis of both military vehicles - thousands of were vehicles for the Armed Forces, Firefighting and others - as well as for the political type, buses, trams and so on. At the same time, there are very serious consequences for workers' working rights, continuing with the anti-government issue that was created with the dismissal, for which we were intervening, without compensation for the last workers, who were left behind and did not choose to relocate. More specifically, for more than eighty to a hundred former employees of ELVO, the assurance of their securities is pending from December 2009 until the date of the conclusion of their contract. In fact, there are also workers who cannot retire because they lack the particular meanings, while the others face other serious insurance problems. These workers become a ball between the Ministry of Finance and the special clearer on this issue, as one puts responsibility for the non-insurance of their securities. On this basis, Minister, you ask what action the government will take to ensure that the marks of the former employees of ELVO S.A. are immediately safeguarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Stoltides. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, will answer. Here, Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you have presented a picture of the disastrous work of the last governments, especially the last of the New Democracy, but without having a single element about what the company was. Mr Colleague, since 2006 the uses of ELVO have started to be injurious. It should be noted that ELVO was faced with economic problems in the past, except for a few years that its financial situation had improved, due to the assignment of procurement programs by the Ministry of National Defence. For example, to speak a common language, its turnover in 2006 was EUR 69.5 million and 2012 was EUR 7.5 million, resulting in a lack of revenue, the creation of a serious liquidity deficit and hence the inability to meet its due obligations, the failure to borrow from banks, the inability to meet operational needs and the delay in executing orders. The consequence of these intense economic problems and its continued loss-making uses over the period 2006-2012 was to accumulate losses of EUR 110 million. So we had a reduction in own funds, totalling 33 million in 2006, and in 2012 it was 6.9 million. The injurious course of the company was not avoided, although it was indirectly financed by continuous increases in equity, in which only the Greek State participated. Therefore, since 2014, the company under the name ELVO, due to the bad economic situation I have just developed, has been placed under special liquidation, following a decision of the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki, at the request of the Greek State. Under the same decision, a liquidator was appointed, whose tasks and responsibilities are defined exclusively by law, the provisions of the 2005 Act. According to them, the liquidator sells only assets of the company under special liquidation, following public tenders, in accordance with a standardised procedure. You know how many competitions have come out atrocious! It was a great success of the government finding an investor now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, Mr Fellow, following systematic efforts, the transfer of the majority of the assets of the company under special management was completed at the beginning of 2021 by signing the planned transfer contract. This is a contract relating to the divestment of the company’s assets as a whole, according to the invitation of the liquidator under the law. In other words, they are property, equipment, intellectual and industrial property rights. In view of the transfer of the assets, which make up the establishment of the company in charge and in relation to the termination of the employment contracts, the mandatory legal provision of Article 14 of Law 3429/2015 was fully applied. This is a provision - I conclude, Mr President - which necessarily applies and which provides that, in the judgement of the clearer and the liquidator, in the interest of and the needs of the liquidation, following the publication of the decision of the appeal court, all or some of the employment contracts of staff associated with a relationship of dependent employment, independent services or work, as well as paid employment contracts for lawyers or legal advisers, for which there is no longer a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we think we could talk hours about how damage occurs in your urban state. The profit is the problem and the business groups, which have disgraced against the work of workers and the people's interests in ELVO and created these debts. If you were in your direction to meet the needs of the Greek people on the basis of the possibilities of operation of ELVO and not on the basis of profit, our people would enjoy much more benefits both in defence and in transport everywhere. However, the profit is what is essentially the condition of your development, and of course, it is often exploited to achieve the strategic objectives, as you have done. But, Minister, I think - I do not know if I am wrong with you - that I do not see any intention of restoring this gross injustice, because this injustice is a blatant one. Because the ones you're flying now like a squeeze of lemon worms are the ones who built this jewelry. You should go there, as everyone should go, as our schools should, to see the prospect of developing the Greek industry, which only the workers developed, to see this industrial ornament. Because these workers served - often you use these expressions - the national duty, they protected the public interest and they worked a life in the interests of the Greek people, regardless of whether or not the business groups were gaining on the back of their work and they got to this point. Indeed, Minister, I do not remember any sign being lost by any Minister, by any government and by any Member who has exercised this policy, the policy of dismantling this industrial ornament. These policies have brought our country's dependence on defence needs and this rolling stock. You also gave hundreds of acres, i.e. licenses, copyright, intellectual property and patents to Israeli interests, as well as huge infrastructure, which can be hostile and not allied tomorrow. Of course, our ally understands it as hostile to the way you apply it. Has anyone lost any sign of those who brought growth from the hundreds of workers and made them three, when our country is under this economic difficulty and could it be developed otherwise, based on ELVO's potential, which one could see if someone would go from there? We think it is not lost and it is very unfair - the lightest word I can use - to treat those who built this wealth, this jewelry and who offered for the interests of the Greek people, Minister, I don't want to do a trial of intent. Many times in dentistry is exploited, so that there can be no answer and we have seen in the relevant timeliness about ELVO blamed the workers. Please don't do it because it's very challenging. We believe that no debate can be held without focusing on how this injustice will be covered and restored and the signals of the workers will be safeguarded. More generally, we say that the workers have proved their power, how much lightning can be organized, how massively they can mobilise and put the state of capitalists aside, to irritate it and leave on paper the antique aberrations, which were passed by your Government a few months ago. This way we think that all workers in all sectors should be carved, because here you have shaped a legislative framework with a'sweet-sweet' job for those who work and with enormous unemployment. Of course, if someone ever gets to retirement while the retirement age goes away and the pension goes to Tartaras, they will be ashamed to live with the crumbs they get when they get there. The solution is to draw the way of his own economy to satisfy his interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that the social sensitivity we all have in this Chamber and obviously just that in your question you say that the government has given the possibility of transfers, it shows exactly the possibility for workers to find jobs elsewhere. We have given this opportunity to all workers. You will allow me to tell you that we have demonstrated the maximum possible social sensitivity. You said the schools should go over there and see the situation. I'm sorry, but as far as I know - I've gone - production line doesn't exist. What are they going to see? The factory has not been operating since 2017, essentially.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u217	For before I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u218	Oh, you think school was five years ago! You said to go now. Production line does not exist. We are talking about a factory that has effectively abandoned production since 2017. There are abandoned factories, there are old installations with materials that no modern industry should use, with wear and a series of other elements. If it were really so idyllic, and the assets were so valued, can you give me a simple interpretation why all the competitions that took place in 2017 and then came to light? I would remind you, to have a historic follow-up, that three public auctions have not been completed since 2017. For an asset that has the value you're saying, one would expect to accomplish, there would be great interest. This government has come with great difficulty and has launched a competition for the benefit of local society and the economy, and we expect things to go better in the near future. Those of you who visited the Thessaloniki International Exhibition would probably be able to discuss with the new administration of ELVO and see the priorities we set ourselves. Therefore, following on from my reply, my colleague, as well as from the point of view of the presses of ELVO's former workers since December 2019, pending the completion of the clearance procedure, continuous and continuous efforts are made jointly by the Ministries of Economic and Social Affairs, as well as by the clearer, in cooperation with the supervising state services, in order to immediately resolve this pending issue, but within always the framework of the existing insurance legislation, but also the strict and standardised framework of Law 3429/2005, as I have told you. In conclusion, as it becomes apparent, any action taken by the clearer shall be carried out within the strict legal framework that it must follow, but also in cooperation with the competent supervisory bodies which shall inform directly of any development of the procedure. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To conclude, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance, within the framework of its competences, is constantly following developments relating to businesses, workers - for whom you are actually showing a great deal of interest - and the economy, is being dissipated and studying the demands of operators, with a view to a realistic, rational approach to problems and the successful completion of long-term and difficult procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u219	Thank you both so much, and good rest and good all the time. I would like to inform the House that the following questions will not be discussed in consultation: The fourth under number 1056/13-9-2021 is the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, John Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “The equal treatment of graduates of the Humanities Guidance Group of the school years 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 in the universal exams”. The second, number 3423/21-7-2021, mention by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Reviewing the exclusion of radiology laboratories from the responsibility of operating hybrid imaging systems”. The eighth Question No 1077/20-9-2021 by SYRIZA Congressman Larisa - Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “JANOS” - One year after the statement.” The third question under number 8403/682/2-8-2021 will now be discussed and an application for the submission of documents in the circle of petitions and questions by MP B2' West Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The irrigation of individuals and the account to farmers". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Government has chosen to proceed with PPP the new dams or modernisation of dams and irrigation and water supply networks. It has chosen to go through PPPs, in fact by giving these basic infrastructures for the agricultural sector to individuals, because although they are not privatised, management is being privatised, and citizens should pay to them for too many years for the use of infrastructure. The dispersion of these works is very wide. I do not say it positively, but negatively, because it is a broad dispersal among the citizens who will accept the impact of the PPPs. We are talking, that is, about Potama Kastoria, Domokos Buga, Arahova, the network of Elias from Amaliada - Pyrgos and in many other areas, the irrigation zone downstream of Acheloos, the dam in Dilofos Larissa, Mathraki from Larissa, Neochori and Grinos and Achladochori Trigalon, in Titus Karditsas, Lasithi, Messinia, in Pella. We now have data from the European Commission, which has examined 12 projects with PPP, including three Greeks, the 'MOREA' motorway, plus the Olympian road and the E65 and found that the PPPs in no way outweigh the other contracts, they have terrible delays and that European money, as he said, is not being used properly, and they are never subjected to an economic efficiency assessment. So there are many questions from this unanswered written answer, which has been turned into timely, but there are four documents that we are asking for. Mr President, I would like a little time, just to read the questions because they were written and there are many more. What irrigational projects does it intend to deliver to private individuals via PPPs? What will be the extra cost for the use of water by farmers? How much will the irrigation cost for farmers increase? Has he informed the citizens of the increases in irrigation prices? How much money has been given so far and how much will he be given to advisers to draft 'economic studies'? What are the conditions of the public partnership with the private sector for these projects? What will be the benefit for the public? What other alternatives were considered? Who will bear the costs of engaging private individuals in the projects? How many years? What is the government's planning for the local and general authorities of the IMPs, TEIs and GEIs? What steps have been taken to reduce the waste of the country's water resources in the agricultural sector? Are the projects announced in line with the country's Aquatic Resource Management Plans? Will the Ministry's Water Service be asked about the projects if so at what stage? Will it have the possibility of effective intervention? What stage will the projects be approved environmentally? Before or after the auction? When will the study of the proper assessment of these projects be carried out? All four documents, as you know, are the economic study on irrigation in Nestos River Arcas, any other economic study on the works announced, the cost-change analysis for farmers in the eighteen areas that will become irrigation projects via PPP, the list of projects for the construction of irrigation networks, together with the accompanying projects to be financed by the Recovery Fund together with the amounts and percentage of private capital, credit and non-financial contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panayiotis (Spilio) Lebanonn will answer. Mr. Lebanon, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u223	You're welcome. Although the smile...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u224	The smile is for this: you know how much I am in my time and how much I respect Parliament. But, my dear Mr Arsenis, I am always happy to come to answer your questions because they are appropriate, I think you have exaggerated yourself today. You have submitted to the written text eighteen questions, and now just as soon as you have a'shoot' speed it took you one and a half minutes, just to formulate them, which you would like to answer. So you understand, Mr President, that I ask for your tolerance. I'll try to be brief. I repeat that we have a very good parliamentary dialogue and I fully understand your ecological sensitivities, Mr Arsenis, and the interest you show in the issues that you have in the Ministry, and that is also apparent from the way you place yourself, but also from the questions you ask. I can assure you once again that I am in the same direction. The green print of the agricultural sector and the management of the impact of the climate crisis are very high on the agenda and on the Prime Minister and the Government and I personally. The proper management of water is now more pressing than ever and the construction of irrigation works is, not only necessary, but also imperative. As I come from a rural prefecture, I assure you that they have been doing substantial work since the '50s and '60s. So the choice to move through PPP is clear for reasons of speed and efficiency. There is no luxury of time, if we really are interested in giving solutions and not just discussing between us in the safe environments of Athens. Efficacy is ensured by specific terms and conditions. Trying to set up your questions a little and give some answers, I would like to mention the following: Firstly, no infrastructure project of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to be carried out through the PPP will be delivered to private individuals. Clear your basic question from the outset. Indeed, as you know, these projects will be co-financed by the Recovery Fund. Also, they will be implemented as non-reimbursable PPP projects, i.e. it will not be the model that you described so much time. The private entity will be repaid in a long time after the start of its operation, on the basis of predetermined standards of results from the public investment programme. Very clear. This is your central issue, if I'm well understood, which also has an ideological basis. It is clear that there is no element of commercial exploitation and there will be no additional burden on farmers as far as their costs are concerned. Secondly, the drafting of the initial investment projects and the economic studies were done in compliance with all legality procedures as defined by Law 4412/2016 on procurement. That is a very precise and unspeakable point. Thirdly, the partnerships will take the form of design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance, with 100% availability payments. At a preliminary stage, the scenarios for the implementation of projects were examined in terms of effectiveness and risk reduction using the classic method of public works, as well as the PPPs, which we have chosen. The benefit of the construction of the works through the PPP is very obvious I think in all the Greek people and farmers, but also of the wings of the House, but only perhaps we have been able to convince you, since the time-consuming procedures of public procurement are completely avoided and the private is guaranteed to ensure that the project is well built and operated with the ultimate benefits, obviously, the more rational use of water, the efficiency of crops, the mitigation of the effects of climate change. Fourthly, the time spent on these projects by private individuals is estimated to be between twenty and thirty years, with an average of twenty-five years. As I said before, farmers will not bear any construction costs. Fifthly, on the issue of the UNECE - I think I have told you before - it may not have been on your own question, but I have said so before in Parliament - we have been working hard in recent months to bring a new framework for the operation of the TWG and of the UNECE. This is necessary because the regulation is too old, it does not respond to the modern needs and what we want to create is a modern, fair and effective integrated model of organisation and operation of all these public irrigation networks. We have created a team that operates and participates in the TWG representatives of all of Greece. I have called on Parliament to come and give me proposals and, of course, I tell you, whatever proposals you have, we are at your disposal. Sixth, our Ministry has become a long-standing planning for the creation of rural environmental infrastructures: dams, lakes, smart irrigation networks, elevation projects, energy saving projects. In this context, our Ministry implements the Integrated Rural Development Infrastructure Programme in 4.3. of 2014-2020, with a budget of 2,2m euros that achieve water savings much more than 10% of the criteria for their inclusion in the PAA. So we're just in the context that we need to move better and better. Seventhly, the projects announced are in line with the general guidelines of the country's water resource management plans under review and resuscitation. Eighth, of course, all environmental requirements will be met, at whatever stage this project is in place and required, and obviously, there will be no reductions in environmental matters at all. I tell you again that we are at your disposal for specific proposals, but not for criticism of another world from the one in which we live, as if we were not going to solve the real problems. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know I'm always studying your initiatives with interest. I have seen many positive points in them. I welcomed your initiative to re-establish the Committee on Desertification. I do not see the ecological nature of what you are describing here. I'll speak very clearly about Nesto. Through the Approved River Lefkon Management Plan of Thrace Aqueous Aquarium the ecological status of Nestos is below good for all sampling sites and is considered a highly modified aqueous system. It is for this reason that Article 4 of the Water Framework Directive has been placed under Article 4 of the Water Framework Directive in order to take all the necessary measures to prevent further deterioration and to achieve the good situation. Here we have a barrier of significant diversion to the essence of the river from its delta where water will not reach over 50% in rural areas. So no, it is not in line with the Water Framework Directive. At least. Also, for PPP projects you said it was faster than the other procedures. Look, we don't have to describe it. The European Court of Auditors in 2018 examined several projects, three of which were Greek, the motorways to which I referred. What happened? That it sees significant weaknesses in the projects via PPPs, such as delays in construction and a significant increase in costs. For the implementation of these projects, all together with the motorways of Greece, more than 1.5 billion was spent on public resources and about 30% was allocated by the European Union. That is why the European Court of Auditors concludes that the PPPs do not have what you describe as advantages vis-à-vis the other contracts. You're against it. Of course, I understand your view, because this decision of the European Court of Auditors has never reached the Greek press. He went to the finest letters - I recall it was in 2008 - when SYRIZA had embraced the PPPs now and continues to embrace them. It's a series of projects that I'm asking for. I repeat that the reason why so many questions and documents are so much is because this is an unanswered written question. We waited for one or two months to answer. It has not been answered, and that is why we are here and converted into a timely one, so it has been automatically converted into all the written questions and the request for documents, so I would ask you to submit the relevant documents to Parliament either now or in the next few days from your office. Also, since we are talking about dams and you are from Iato-Carnania, I can only ask you your opinion of the Mesohorian dam. PPC says it's on its way. The Minister for the Environment tells us he's positive. Do you, as Heaven's carnivores, support it? Because, as you know, he will violate eight decisions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u227	We're out here, Mr. Arseny. If the Minister wants to answer. You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u228	It is very pleasant to discuss all matters together. It is obvious that I am always in favour of the legality and framework of the Greek Government and our legal system. I have not seen this decision from the European Court of Auditors, so it would be useful to give it to me to study it and to see exactly what it says. It is important, however, to mention that Greece was ranked for 2020 in the second place worldwide in the category "good competitive procedures" in the PPP sector by the Global Infrastructural Club, a G20 player, so I think it is not something of ours here that we ourselves have shaped, and many of the implemented PPP projects have received international awards and recognition. You know what, Mr. Arseny? I leave the texts and the information I have to give you later, to be consistent with the three-minute period, because I have answers to what they show that your analysis of the Nestos part, for example, is back in 2013. I'll give it to you later. But I don't understand, you ask us all these questions, and I'm happy to come here to answer you, where, in the end, the target is? Show what? That PPP projects are more time-consuming and costly than classic public works? Is that your party's position? This is not substantiated by any evidence. Your goal is not to make these projects? This is against all logic and rural space and regional development and the model we are visioning of putting the farmer as a centre and a pioneer in development, which is coming in the next ten years in our country with verticalization, with added value to the products of others. If there is anything else behind this, I would very much like to hear it and notice it and study it. If you just want us to do this exercise of parliamentary gymnastics, I tell you that it is no good. I am pleased to come over to discuss these issues in this House, but I think it disorientates the farmers themselves, the TOEB shareholders themselves and the whole debate that has to be in one direction. I think that we have conquered this in our ministry these months, not to talk about party conflicts, but to see what the real and actual problems are. The problem here is one, namely: we have natural resources, namely water, that too much water is lost without taking advantage of it, that with drilling and all this process of managing water resources and other water resources we are creating only problems and we have decided to change this situation. We want you all of Parliament's parties with us in this race. We have the political will to do this. We now have the tools, we have the plan. Why don't we all come in with better suggestions, see how we go down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Minister. Thank you both. Have a good rest. Let's go to the first under number 1081/20-9-2021 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Pericles Manta to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "EIO service with new medical and nursing staff". Mr. Mada, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since the risk of pandemic, the government has indeed carried out a broad and extensive plan for the armouring of the country and the health system, primarily with the vaccination programme, which is already on an extensive path. Almost two thirds of the Greeks have been vaccinated and if we add our compatriots, who have naturally had about three quarters of our population vaccinated, we are in a very good development. At the same time, the government and the Ministry have done huge work on increasing in intensive care beds. Of about five hundred fifty in July 2019, over three hundred have passed over. We all remember earlier what happened in the autumn, when thirty - five to fifty people of ours with seasonal riddles were looking for intensive treatment beds. Now they don't exist. A very important number of recruitments have been carried out by subsidiary staff and, of course, by health workers, who have all given themselves, have succeeded and held up the national system. With regard to the simulations for medical staff, however, the Government has undertaken that a large number of health professionals recruited with subsidiary staff intend to simulate themselves and even to be subsidized by extra moleculosis in an APA competition in order to run these recruitments. What is the design and what has the Ministry done so far for these positions? A second major problem, which concerns recruitment, may I say, is the long delays. We have huge delays due to bureaucracy in notices of doctors' competitions that have been running in recent years. For example, I have some information from the hospitals of my country, Messinia, Kalamata Hospital and the Kyparissian Hospital, that for example there are still an invitation to tender from February 2020, from September 2020 and even from March 2018. In fact, for example, in the March 2018 competition for eight posts at Kalamata Hospital, the five were declared barren, the three recruitments were carried out and one of the three were completed after two years and eight months. A similar situation exists at the Kyparissia Hospital, except that there we have a higher proportion of barren invitations, which, of course, as a regional hospital, we all understand the difficulties we have in this situation. So I want you to tell us, Minister, what is the planning so that first of all we can stop the bureaucracy that exists and make it all much faster, since the intention of the Ministry and the Government is that these recruitments should be carried out and that the design is also what you have designed or planned to do for the regional hospitals, so that they can be made more attractive for the young scientists in our country, so that they can participate in the competitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u231	The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Silina Gaga, will answer. Good evening, good week, iron. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, everyone. Firstly, a lot of work has been done by my fellow Members who I would like to thank from this Step and from all the organization of the Ministry with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry. I think we have managed as a state to tackle pandemic at a good pace in relation to European countries with much better systems. As far as your question is concerned, it really is very sensible and enables me to refer to the substantial interventions that we want to make and we have started to ensure that the structures of the National Health System are sufficiently staffed throughout the country. Now, as far as your question is concerned, it is really very sensible because it enables me to refer to the substantial interventions that we want to make and we have started, so that the health structures of the National Health System can be sufficiently well-managed throughout the country. These are interventions that had been completed in the previous period, but unfortunately the COVID pandemic and all these subtle waves of explosions have not allowed us to complete so far, because the major issue was to be able to deal with pandemic and patients. And to give priority to changes and reforms in health, a stable environment is needed. To enter the foundations of the new ESS and to provide permanent solutions to chronic pathogens and distortions of the ESS, it is necessary first of all to exit the pandemic. I hope that the massive vaccination, as you said, comes stability and it is time for the reforms to be implemented. So we have a hard job, immediately and without delay. You raise two basic questions in the question, but also a third question of delays and I will answer that. The first is the planning of permanent staff. I believe that you mean the ancillary staff who came and worked and fought at this time of the pandemic, significantly strengthening all the health structures of the country and consists of doctors, nurses and other staff. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the Members who were soldiered and who offered their services with sacrifice, because in the first time we did not know what it was and how we were in danger. Clearly we want to show practical recognition for this work that they have done and to help the proper functioning of hospitals and health centres. It is certainly not possible to simulate everyone at one time and a concrete plan is already in place. As far as medical staff are concerned, I will tell you what has already been done. They have been published from February 2020 to September 2021, that is, now notices of permanent posts of two thousand eight hundred ninety-eighty-sixty-six doctors in the ESS, in line with requests from the hospitals and approved by the health regions. More than two thousand young doctors from various branches and specialties have already been appointed or appointed by these notices. For nursing and other staff, the notice of the AACC was published in August 2020 to fill a thousand two hundred nine posts in nursing and other staff. The results are expected from the AACC, and indeed the AACC process is slow, as is the process of crisis and we want to get back to the hospitals that burn down for the seats and we want the councils to be fast. We also proceeded with the immediate permanent recruitment of five hundred ninety-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixth-sixty-sixty-sixtyree nurses in positions that are currently serving by similar assistants, respecting the commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And let me note that the four thousand nursing posts of nurses in a notice have never been made before. Finally, a notice of nine hundred ten paramedical, administrative and other staff posts for hospitals in posts corresponding to subsidiary staff already serving and will be published by the end of 2021. I can talk to you about the motives now or, if you like, the dentistry. You tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u233	In your dentistry, so we don't get tired of you. Mr. Mada, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Very interesting, Minister. Thank you for your information on the recruitment section. I would like to ask you two three questions, with regard to the motives and through the debate we are having with health, but also from the experience we have at least during the pandemic period. An important problem that really delays the tender procedure is that something has been done up to now, as regards the seat of recruitment councils, the crisis of doctors in the RIS sector, which were the hospitals to which the positions belonged. This has actually made it harder for you to realise that when the seat is in the hospital running the competition, which requires doctors, it is much more sensible for the committee to run faster, to prepare the files, to proceed with the procedures, and therefore not to waste any time at all. Perhaps, then, you should think about reintroducing it, because it can help red tape. Also, according to the relevant provision, a medical candidate has a right, and has been appointed to a hospital, if the evaluation process is completed in another application and had been delayed to complete, to leave the nursing facility appointed, thus perpetuating a problem in the hospital where he was first appointed. We should see this if, by accepting a doctor in a position, he is automatically excluded from any other procedure of notice, he is in progress so that the organogram and generally the system of notices are not disrupted and we have gaps and run back. At the same time, it may be necessary to establish that directly and regardless of the general notices, when there are vacancies due to retirement, it is specifically to be done in one-stop shops, not to have delays and not to have a total expectation of the posts with the notices. And by closing on the motives, look, self-government, especially the second degree, the regions, you know that they have given too much and have supported health structures through their regional programmes, especially over the eighteen months. They have covered, in addition to infrastructure and equipment, budgets up to subsidiary staff recruited by hospitals. So whether we should mobilise primary and secondary self-government and institutionalise it in a way that they too, of course, can offer extra incentives, whether they are financial or benefits to doctors who want to participate in competitions and work in hospitals in their regions. In this way and possibly other ways that you will think, because I think that the issue of incentives has been opened in the public debate recently, to find these incentives that will make the positions attractive, so that we can stop having barren notices in the air now. It is not possible for the state to have guaranteed money, for there to be political will, for the ministry to run the positions and for them to be fertile.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u235	Mrs. Gaga has the floor. Madam Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Mada. I think with regard to the delays and crisis councils in hospitals, I have caught up with you, I have already told you that we are trying. For the second you are absolutely right, not to have these movements, we take one place and can still be with the notices. So when we accept the position, for at least three years - it's not forever, but for some time - not being able to submit, you're right. The third thing I would like to say is that I have already requested from the Ministry's departments the lists of people who will be retired from March to declare the posts. So these three are on the table. Now, as far as attracting qualified medical staff to hospitals in the region is concerned, it is our central objective to achieve a full rational service throughout Greece, and this has, I think, already been demonstrated by the size of the recruitment that has already been made. In cooperation with the medical companies and the associations, i.e. doctors - we ask them what are the things that will make them go to a remote area - and also in cooperation with the regions and municipalities for economic incentives and shelters that are very important, especially in tourist areas where rents are too high, we discuss the criteria and we finish them for the introduction of new doctors to the ESS. They have already given benefits to the municipalities. You should know that for remote areas. We are also processing a scientific interface with university clinics or large ERC clinics so that there can be continuous education and not be left behind because it was in a smaller regional hospital. We therefore want the needs of the citizens to be fully met in these remote areas and the incentives that I have told you are specifically scientific, but also economically, interconnecting with the major centres. We have been working with my colleagues since the first day on the implementation of our project with targeted legislative interventions that I have already spoken about on what we are preparing for. You'll see them right now. Specific actions already identified by law for private individuals are also needed where there is a problem and we have already started it for anesthetics. So these gaps in positions, in a direct way and without delays and lengthy procedures, will be covered. Our goal is always the universal coverage of patients everywhere in Greece, without a pigeon for the patient, i.e. a real public health. I share your anxiety about the health system and the motives of doctors. I come from the inflatable public health that I have been serving for thirty years, and of course, I will continue to serve her. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] On the basis of the guidelines of the Prime Minister and the government's planning positions and in cooperation with the Minister and the PPP, we are also taking a step forward - the health map for the post-COVID era. Our aim is to have a different picture in primary and secondary care in the short term by making use of the capable inspiring material we have - we have good and many doctors in Greece - and the means that technology provides us with, and I refer to the digital file, which will make this interface easy, direct and health services better throughout Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. Minister, before you go, I'll remind you that we have a clean-up with Bytina.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I live and sleep with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u239	I realized you've been living and sleeping with her, because we haven't finished it for a couple of years since you started ruling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u240	I dream of her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u241	It's about not staying in dreams, but going to realization. Because I only see in dreams.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u242	There's no study and we're going to study for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u243	Minister, to continue, and we'll see, because I thought you'd be done here. We must also wish Mrs Gaga good luck, because we have been colleagues in 'Save' for some time. We continue with the third with the number 1075/20-9-2021 top-level question of the first-round question of the MP Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Direct need for the paediatric clinic in Argolis”. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I, too, wish a good term of office, strength, because you must have it, because the ERC must be supported. My question today has two legs. The first is the general one. You are well aware that in recent years hospitalisations have increased in paediatric cases especially for ages below 12 because they do not have access to the vaccine. They say one out of four probably needs hospitalization. This is the more general theme that you should deal with because in Athens and possibly in Thessaloniki there are children's hospitals. From what I've read, from what I've learned, from what I've seen, you're thinking to get beds from the private sector for non-COVID private sector hospitality and COVID publicity. On the other hand, however, the region also exists. Argolida, where I'm elected, has two nursing units. By means of the five hundred and thirty-four doctors who were qualified a while ago, a place was given for Argos, a place for Nafplio and a place for the Centre for the Health of Skull. Apart from that, there's also a paediatric clinic that has two or three times been inaugurated, but has never worked. The point is now that I suspect we may have an increase in hospitality in Argolida children, should we not have a clinic? That makes sense. On the other hand, as there is the multiplicity of structures right now, a pediatric clinic cannot function, why in Argos is there only one curator II and the position that has been declared when to be covered, when will it come? Auxiliaries don't go. Individuals have been invited, but no one has done so now, if you have to run a pediatric clinic, how will you operate it? What are you going to do about this and, more generally, what are you going to do for the rest of Greece, for the rest of the region facing the same problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u245	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much. As you can see, I have a particular sensitivity to the subject. First of all, because I'm a doctor and also because I'm a mother, because I had kids little, because I had to take them to "children" some time, because we all need hospitality. We have a real pandemic that in this wave seems to threaten children, so we are looking at schools, and we are monitoring the evolution of the pandemic's proliferation and dispersion of the pandemic in primary, high schools and high schools, with the operational capacity and preparedness to deal with potential excitement at all times. Although school year started well, without any particular problems in the first two weeks, this is positive and we are hopeful and we hope that it will continue, we do not have many children's hospitalities, but in no case does it concern us. I'd say the opposite, actually. That is why we have one plan ready per health region, per hospital and health centre. Before I refer specifically to the plans of the Ministry of Health, I would like once again from this step by appealing to children and parents to be vaccinated because this is the most confident and fastest protection shield for children themselves, but also for all others, for parents, grandparents, for the whole family, for all friends. In the design we have to deal with both the pandemic and the paediatric problems and the hospital needs we increase the power of the beds of the paediatric clinics by increasing both the power of single beds for COVID hospitals at the same time in the paediatric clinics, but also by increasing the ICU beds for the hospitalisation of children with COVID -19. We define health centres specifically for the management, reception and examination of suspected cases, and we support medical specialists in pediatrics. Having ready structures for pediatrics is for us a given and unnegotiable one, namely preparedness. A very important issue for us is to be the sections that children will take on, to be experienced, not to start other structures right now that are not experienced. So we start with the existing material, the big clinics, that children can have a combination that we have in Athens, which, as you know, the two major hospitals are one next to each other in the center of Athens, and that's where we see the children basically. We haven't filled up any structures, i.e. with pediatric clinics all over the Lecanopod. Where there are deficiencies, they will be covered and I will personally intervene to ensure that no children's clinic is left without the necessary staff. This is also a commitment from our Prime Minister, who is very interested and who has already held several meetings with all the paediatric companies and the representatives of the children to be ready. Regarding Argolida and the paediatric clinic at first Argolida, Argolida has the privilege of having two hospital units. You said about the division and I want your position on the division and how we should deal with it, whether we should have it or whether we should change it. Currently, as you said, the pediatric clinic has been failing since 2012, and since 2015 it has completely ceased to work. So we don't inaugurate it as a new one, but it was there and it stopped working since 2015. I know that. I pledge that we will overcome the difficulties and begin the operation of the pediatric clinic in Argos as soon as possible. We have already announced two permanent positions of children and already moved two pediatricians from health centres. And I would remind you that at the same time there are, as you said, the two pediatricians at the Nafplio Hospital. I am a member of the regional hospitals, as I have said, and it is already a matter of high priority for us, and that is why we are promoting targeted legislative interventions in order to encourage doctors. May I answer the second question now, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u247	You have a second, Minister. I would ask that both Members and ministers be in time. Mr. Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u248	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, the problem with Argolida is that the children's clinic in Argos, since I've been working there, and I know things very well, it hasn't worked for the past fifteen years. So there was until 2004, then it stopped working, it was a doctor, it stopped. Since then, it hasn't worked. The question is now, where iron burns, if tomorrow we have incidents that need hospitalization, that go. That's our problem, that is, we have to see it right now. For in the long term I will not disagree, but there are other solutions that I am at your disposal to talk about and to see how the whole story will evolve in my particular county. Because, as you said, we have two nursing units. Three days one and two days waits for the other on weekends. These are things that sound strange, but we must at some point get a solution. And what I am insisting on, so I am asking questions about both the issue of pediatrics and other problems, is that at some point we will have to deal with the problem in Argolida. I have proposed a solution that was a new hospital. I suggested that, but for the time being there is nothing. The point is that you must now, firstly, give a solution and, secondly, then look further at how things are going to develop. It's over with Argolida. In general now in northern Greece, there are at present too many cases, there is a large proportion of invasive people. The vaccination program in northern Greece didn't go well. The effect of these is that we will have increased children's hospitality. You saw a typical example at a school in Thessaloniki. Friday was two cases. Within the weekend they became four. Then it's 20, fifty. He's booked the school. Some of them will need hospitality. Thessalonica can withstand the pediatric hospitals it currently has, if the treatments of the incidents are increased with COVID? That is my question, and I insist on it, because we cannot then go to a holiday to do things. We need to make sure that we have secured beds so that every Greek's children can be cured where they need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u249	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right, and that's exactly what's in the plan, because none of us wants to risk any child. That's why I told you we'd like to go to clinics that are already organized and we're starting from there. I will not answer you for Greece's overall plan, because I will be out of time. I'll answer you for the Peloponnese. The outbreak of pandemic is something that we are all abstaining on, and that is why it is very important to be vaccinated. Vaccination has not gone badly, but we want more to convince the world and we try both with the municipalities and the communities and the Church and the people who in local communities affect the world, pour them bunkers and get them to lead society to vaccination. In the event of an outbreak of the pandemic, beds will also be available from other regional hospitals. More specifically, forty-three simple pediatric beds will be used, which will be: twenty-one at the General Hospital of Patras - these are already arranged - sixteen beds at the Hospital of Ioannina, where, as you know, the LAG is large, with the possibility of developing extra beds if necessary, and six beds at the General Hospital of Kalamata. According to our design there will be three children's ICUs available for COVID at the Patras Hospital and there is additional possibility of converting additional children's and adolescent beds. However, I repeat that I do not think we will get there. If we get there, we're ready. What we have seen so far is that both the children and the parents have shown responsibility and I think we're going to be fine. But we're prepared for any possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u251	Thank you. Now we will discuss the first question under number 8108/19-7-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Drama of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Continued degradation and dismissal of Drama Hospital to medical and nursing staff - Government unwillingness for effective support - Appointment of cleanliness to contractors - Merger plans and abolition of units and clinics of the hospital". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have my heartfelt wishes for the best of effort and for everything to go well. You will face the crisis and my criticism of other people's things, because this question was tabled because in Drama we had very serious problems with the coronary in February 2021 and remained unanswered. I came back in June 2021 after four and a half months. They didn't happy to have an answer from your counterpart, Mr. Kikilia. On 15 July I re-introduced it and turned it into a timely one. That is why, Mr President, there is a large number of questions which do not correspond to an oral procedure, but are abrupt to the behaviour of the Ministry. Madam Minister, all Greece knows that Drama is one of the most affected regions of Greece by the pandemic. In the nightmare two months of November - December, we counted over three hundred dead in our region. And the dead for us are not statistics. In the province are people who are neighbors, friends, classmates and you understand that the cloud of terror has been heavy over the city. Sadly, at this very difficult time the hospital failure and the very serious weaknesses demonstrated by the National Health System appeared. The uncontrollable situation arises not only from the victims but also from the fact that the publications show that the printing of that time, as recorded in the announcements of the union, in the announcements of the doctors of the hospital. Despite the efforts of the hospital commander to entertain concerns, the pandemic insisted. The Federation of Hospital Doctors with its announcement of 28-11-2020 explained to Mr. Kontozamanis and Mr. Kikilis that the problem is not Drama and that it is the hospital. There have been reports by Mr Teloglou on 'Kathemerini'. And in any case, you realize that this whole story has had the tragic result I mentioned. The Medical Association is at the forefront of this attempt to find a solution. There's a lack of an RT PCR molecular system and we're delayed in detecting and recording cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u253	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. I told you it was written and has a lot of questions. So please let me have your basic understanding. There was an issue with the oxygen bottles, but as far as I've been informed, it was restored. There are unacceptable statements by the political leadership at the time concerning the citizens of Drama and the situation of the IGC, and I ask you to clarify and answer them with my questionnaire. Finally, I would ask that you do not mention the 20 questions, that you submit, with the request for the submission of the documents, the correspondence of the hospital of the 4th Ministry and the services of the Ministry concerning the needs of the Drama Hospital, the announcements of permanent and contractual posts of doctors and nurses made for the Drama Hospital and the documents for the recruitment and taking up of a service, the correspondence of the services responsible for the need to provide a molecular analyst and all the health documents on any medical reports relating to the accelerated supply of oxygen bottles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u255	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much for the question. As you know, I've been a doctor in the health system for thirty years. I wasn't at the Ministry, but I was at the CSI. As President of the KESY and as a pulmonary fighter I went up to northern Greece last year in the second wave, which was truly lethal for northern Greece, and the situation was a situation that cannot be dealt with by many other countries in Europe. I mean, let me tell you that hospitals that were made to have thirty patients with respiratory infections, at most, were found with a hundred seventy. These are the conditions of pandemic. Italy, for example, put them in tents, and they were dying shallow. We - thank God - didn't have to do it. There have been problems and I have seen them with my eyes. Indeed, oxygen, if it is a system that is made for thirty infections per year and suddenly has a hundred seventy in a moment that everyone needs oxygen, as you can see, there will be problems. They've been solved quickly. So I think that, in relation to what happened to other countries in Europe, we did well. And yes, the small hospitals were more pressurized in northern Greece with the wave. It's a fact. Nevertheless, I think this has been a good approach. I'll see about the PCR. I don't know whether or not there is. You ask me the question I have in my hands if the hospital will close. I can tell you that very clearly. He's not gonna shut down the hospital. Drama has a hospital and will continue to have, as Kavala, Alexandroupolis and all other cities will. We will not do anything to reduce parts and activities and clinics, and I think we are moving on to the health map. Now let me tell you what we have done to strengthen the hospital in these two years of government. We reinforced the hospital with staff. Awards were made for thirty permanent ESS branches. The 10 of them in 2020 and 20 in 2021. And we're talking about permanent doctor positions. Five are to the point of director. Seven to the degree of curator I and eighteen to the degree of curator II. And specialties are anesthesiology, pathology, pneumonology, cardiology and urology. Speaking of subsidiary staff, we also recruited fourteen doctors of various specialties to deal with the pandemic, forty-two nurses and assistant nurses and forty-one people who are paramedical and all in the midst of a pandemic and not under normal conditions. We are now here for the next day, for the ESS that we want to have from now on, for the hospitals in the country, not only in Drama, but all the hospitals in the country and the end of the year, as I have already said, we are calling four thousand places of nursing specialists and nine hundred and ten other paramedical personnel. You can be sure that these posts include ancillary posts that are currently working in hospitals and of course we want to keep them and reward them for their efforts and why hospitals need people. The contracts already of people who are subsidiary are extended by an amendment tabled and will also be given the possibility of permanentisation through the corresponding AACC tender. We have already said about the motives that we want to give doctors and promote the corresponding arrangements. And now I'm going to talk about infrastructure. The Drama Hospital was provided with 6.5m euros for the supply of medical equipment and implemented or implemented over the last two years, and 6.5m euros from the next NSRP have already been approved by the Ministry of Health for the extension of the TLP and the ICF. The supply of a new magnetic tomograph that is 1 million euros, a CT scanner worth 500,000 euros and an ultrasound value of 300,000 euros is approved. There will also be 2 to 2.5 million for the reconstruction of the hospital buildings and to house new, but also existing activities such as, for example, negative pressure chambers that you saw needed COVID and above all to restore licensing issues, such as, for example, the pharmacy that is not licensed. These will be financed by the regional NRV and the Recovery Fund. And not to get too tired of you, I'll also mention the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u258	Madam Minister, I will insist on this because the tragicity of the situation prevents us from covering behind statistics and amounts. Drama's going through a second mini lockdown. It's a heavy area. We are first in deaths now per 100 thousand inhabitants. The conferences in the medical club are continuous and indeed the President of the Athens Medical Association, as far as I know, Wednesday. There is a request for pandramin to be declared the Hospital of Drama barren to speed up procedures. That is not the subject of the question, but it follows on from what you have said. The entire society of Drama was mobilized at a pandraine rally to support the struggle of hospitals against government indifference. The CIVID clinic has returned to Drama Hospital with everything that means that the ESS is transformed into the system of a disease. All of these elements are that I want to make known to you to realize that things are not likely to be deferred. I'm telling you this, and as a doctor you'd understand me very well: he came in a hospital circular asking for eight doctors to train himself in a rapid invasion seminar. And of course, people asked if they would have criminal responsibilities and what would happen. You understand that substantive solutions require long-term strategy and speed up procedures. And there you will be judged, Minister, and not in the good intentions for which no one doubts and why you are a citizen of Greek democracy and why you are a doctor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u259	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u260	I would like to say that it helps us very much to discuss the question of TEN training. As you know, doctors' positions were called on in TLPs which should be able to work autonomously for the sick who come with urgent problems, which is why TLPs are. And there has been an EKT since 2007, which says that all doctors in hospitals must have a certificate for cardio-refreshing heartbeat and we do not do so. So one of the first things - and I say it because I'm a doctor fighter - that we have to look at is that it's not meant to get sick in a hospital and not all doctors trained to make a wound tour, airway management and be able to save his life. So these programmes for training in the management of the airway, I begin to do them in all hospitals, and I think we should all support them, because they are very important and save lives. So I cannot understand how a doctor can say 'I don't want to be trained' or 'cause I'm going to be trained'. I'll be trained because I'm a doctor in TLP, and I have to be ready to fight and save someone's life. If someone comes in and needs airway management, I'll have to do airway management. That's why I'm in TLP. I'm sorry to say that, but I think that's the basic point. And I think that's something we want to do and we do it with the University clinic for Attica's ERs who are trained people, who have certification. We are doing similar seminars with the EMCDDA throughout Greece for the management of the wound, which I think is very important. Consider that there are thousands of traffic accidents each year in Crete, Sifnos, Drama, anywhere you can imagine, in mountain areas that are two hours away from the hospital. We shouldn't only train doctors. We need to train the citizens who understand that they can make a tourniquet, be able to stop the bleeding and reach the patient, the wounded alive in the hospital. So these are things that we must not talk about, but we must help everyone to become and to be very positive about it. This is very important and is done in all the countries of the world. We also want volunteers to take part in these seminars and doctors themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u261	You should also serve the EAW.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u262	Of course, we should also serve the EAW. But listen, about the emergency, they must be people everywhere. For example, in Chios it is not the ambulance everywhere, so it is important that we have trained people both in TDIs and everywhere. Now, I'll answer the rest for Drama if you want to hear them. I take note of the barren and take note of the PCRs. Let me remind you that we are still in a pandemic period and we at the hospital wanted to go back to normal function and go back in part, but we cannot cure the patients with COVID. So all hospitals are currently called upon to manage both. It is human and we must do it for both the sick and the poor. What has been done at Drama Hospital is that: Upgraded, as you said, the oxygen supply and remind you that this was very important. It replaced the way in which electricity is managed, the steam supply network, lifts, wind turbines. A separate TLP was formed for orthopedic that is important especially because there is a pandemic. LEAs were made easy to access both abroad and in the inner area of the hospital. Observations of COVID incidents were created separately. Recycling bed, paper and so forth has changed and it has been done with the complete setup of the hospital file that had never been made. It became a new resting place, focusing and studying doctors. They became AME toilets that hadn't been made. I'm telling you the simplest, but for the daily lives of the sick and the visitors are important. The plantation was also restored perimeter of the hospital. So what I want to tell you is that we support Drama Hospital, as we support all hospitals. I absolutely believe that both doctors and all the sanitaries are given what we are doing and that health services must exist everywhere in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u263	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 22-9-2021, a criminal case-file concerning the former Deputy Minister of Civil Protection and Crisis Management Nikolao Hardalia. We are now continuing with the fifth under the number 1063/17-9-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr.Aggeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious complaints about the placement of a container from the Municipality of Athens as temporary school halls of the 153nd and 154th Athens Prefecture in Patisia". Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, my question relates to a major issue that has arisen in the area of Patisia. In particular, the Municipality of Athens at the end of 2020 took a decision, which took place in the summer, regarding the placement of some containers for the accommodation of pre-school students on an unstructured plot located in Patisia on James Street. The Decision was implemented following the adoption of an initial authorisation for small-scale operations on 30 May 2021, which did not provide that on the plot where the containers would be placed, the relevant workshop would be to cut trees. However, the crew carried out the space and started cutting trees. This, of course, has caused the strongest protest of the people, because it is a recreational park, the only lung in the region, which is highly populated and urbanly desecrated. There was a complaint in the Town of a resident who is also a political engineer who found many failures. Unfortunately, this decision was implemented under status and opacity, because the municipality did not come into public consultation with the residents, but also characterised by the work of numerous irregularities, such as the fact that there is no accreditation decision of the municipal council on the existence of alternative suitable buildings that could house students, despite the fact that opposition to the municipal council had proposed a list of alternative buildings, which the mayor, the municipality, the majority, in any event, rejected captives and unnecessarily. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance because it is a very complex problem, which has already gone to justice. Thank you very much. In addition, there is no practical suitability for one kindergarten, 153nd, while for the 154th, the other kindergarten, there is a practice of suitability, which is completely unnecessarily unrelenting and inexplicable, lacks precipitation, because scandalously - I would say - this practice characterises that the plot is suitable for the students in the containers, despite the fact that the plot is nearing a prepared building, which, in fact, is very close to the train lines. Just 11.5 meters, that is, from the container lines are the train lines, there is a building on which too many complaints have been made to the police, the Protestant Prosecutor's Office has been sealed, and the adjoining playground has been sealed and there is also a power station. And yet the committee considered that the site is suitable without even mentioning the documentation provided by the municipality. After the inhabitant's complaint, who studied as an engineer, came the municipality, issued a second licensed review of the first, only seventeen days after the engineer's complaint, which at that time predicts the cutting of trees. We are talking about thirty-seven trees and without even a technical report of engineers or arable crops, as required by the relevant legislation. You understand that all this has caused the very strong protest of residents who have already appealed to the Administrative Court of Appeal have filed an application for annulment with an application for interim measures to suspend the execution of decisions. And, of course, we must say that, apart from the deterioration of the housing environment and the deterioration of the living conditions of the people, the Citizens' Ombudsman himself has said that he has received a number of complaints and petitions in relation to these fast-track solutions, which cannot in any case substitute the building infrastructures, that they are not normally fulfilled, and that the safety and health of the students is at risk at the moment, from what I have described and, of course, an extremely undisciplined measure. Unfortunately, has the decision of the municipality been implemented, which has violated and a ministerial decision of the Ministry of the Environment, which it is doing? And here comes your responsibility, Mr. Minister, that is, the Ministry of the Environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. Unfortunately, this decision, which was adopted on the mandate of Mr Economou, transfers powers to the relevant services of the Municipality to say it - it is the PSOs - so that these services can circumvent procedures and make rapid approvals without complying with criteria and conditions laid down by urban legislation. So I ask you, for your part, what you will do in order to verify the legitimacy of this work, because you are due as a supervising body, and that is what the law of 'CLISTEN' says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u265	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u266	So we ask you what you intend to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u267	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, first of all I would like to make a horizontal comment on the lack of buildings in order to meet school infrastructure needs. It is a great shortage horizontally and is valid throughout Greece. It is precisely this lack of building infrastructure that meets standards to meet the needs of school and pre-school education that has shown weaknesses and specificities like those mentioned. I would like to tell you that when it comes to meeting emergencies in a temporary time, as defined by circulars, four years for prefabricated rooms plus two years for extension with specific requirements and with a permission to build a small-scale one, however, while complying with certain minimum standards. As far as the issues you have raised, of course, will be checked. You referred to the building service of the city. I would like to tell you that the old towns today and at the municipality level are serving as competences for the construction services you have mentioned, which are, however, obliged to respect all the conditions and specifications for the authorisation of each building for any use and for the uses you have mentioned. Now I will make a very quick reference to how the problem that you refer to your question has arisen. From the school year 2018-2019, infants who completed the age of five on December 31st of the year of registration were compulsory in kindergarten, while infants aged four years were gradually provided for by municipalities within three years, i.e. from the school year 2021-2022. By two Ministerial Decisions of 2018 and 2019, the municipalities, including the Municipality of Athens, were defined, in which two-year pre-school education became compulsory from the school years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 respectively. However, the application of the compulsory two-year pre-school education was suspended until the entry into force of the school year 2021-2022 for certain municipalities and between them and the Municipality of Athens. The municipality is responsible for the building infrastructure of primary schools, according to the Municipalities and Communities Code, L.3463/2006. Therefore, the Municipality of Athens with a view to the effective implementation of compulsory two-year pre-school education from the school year 2021-2022 proceeded to an appropriate design since September 2019 taking into account, in particular, the following parameters: First, the number of applications for registration for infants and pre-school children last year and this year's school year. This year’s records amount to five thousand five hundred ninety - three thousand - eighty - five hundred and two thousand four hundred preschoolchildren - while in the past six thousand six hundred sixty - sixty - six - six thousand - five hundred twenty - five - one were unable to attend the existing school units. Secondly, the fact that two competitive procedures in the year 2020 for renting suitable sites have been atrocious. And thirdly, the expropriation of space and the designation of these schools, as well as the building of schools, cannot be completed in such a short time. The Municipality of Athens, as part of the cooperation and communication with the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and with the Department of Primary Education I of Athens, identified the number of actors needed to meet the current needs for the two-year old children's school. In particular, forty two houses are required in nine unstructured plots, eight houses in three empty schools and seven existing halls from six schools. The Municipality of Athens then tendered for the project entitled "provisional accommodation facilities on unstructured plots to meet the urgent needs of the two-year pre-school education of the Municipality of Athens" - perhaps this is what you mentioned - on the basis of Article 220 of Law 4610/2019, which is financed by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs' Public Investment Program. I would like to say to you - because you referred to the competitive process, the licensing procedures and noted omissions, errors or other situations that I cannot know why they are evolving with regard to the checks - that in every procedure the measures may be temporary, but that does not mean that everyone can do whatever they are, wherever they are, and as they are facilities especially when they relate to school units with all the particularities and sensitivities they include...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u269	Close, Minister. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u270	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I'll be on my way, and I'll answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u271	We finished the first cycle. I want you to be in time, please. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u272	I'll try it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u273	You should try it hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u274	I'll try as long as I can. Mr Minister, on the one hand you said that you do not know exactly the irregularities, but on the other hand that it is the right place. Well, the Ministerial Decision stipulates that it should have taken precedence over the technical report by the engineer or the geopodist to cut the trees - which does not exist here - the relevant opinion of the Architecture Board and that these structures also last, as you said quite rightly under the relevant law, four years. As the document states, which is fifty pages - I say this, Mr President, for my time - the length of use of prefabricated rooms has not even been determined. As if we now have a solution that will be perpetuated indefinitely. So you understand that the municipality here has violated the legislation, has violated the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of the Environment. It makes solutions that worsen the living conditions of the people. It has not even submitted a cover chart, nor a position on an existing state of affairs as required by Article 220 of Law 4610/2019. It also does not mention, as I said, the length of time. A special technical report by the engineer was not even submitted on cutting the trees. The topographical diagram submitted does not coincide with the general technical report of the engineer. And all this under the pretext of pandemic and emergency, while the mayor had two years all to find the right places. And suitable spaces are there, just haven't been exploited. And even though the opposition has identified them, it has refused them without - I repeat - a justification. Here, therefore, Article 24(2) of the Constitution is directly violated with regard to the deterioration of the housing environment and the deterioration of the living conditions of the inhabitants. And also - you know that much better than I do - containers are energy-intensive structures. So here we are not just talking about a project that endangers the health and physical integrity of pupils, but does not even meet the criteria required by the European Energy Instructions on neutral buildings. We have structures that emit too much carbon dioxide. I hope - you have said so in your protology and I will keep it - that you carry out this verification of legality as required by the relevant law. This is why, although responsibilities have been transferred to these services, these services have been frustrated. And they have been dissatisfied because they have not justified either the practical fitness or the licenses and have overlooked the conditions required by the law. So I call on you today to promise that you will carry out legality checks, that everything that is being done will be frozen, that all these projects and that the right areas will be found to accommodate the students. Because here there are reasons for public interest and it is also the health of the students, it is also the fact that the housing is downgraded and people lose the only park, the only lung available to them in this area. Mr President, I would like to table a number of documents in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u275	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u276	Madam President, the possibility of exceptionally allowing temporary temporary construction for a certain period of time, which, as temporary building constructions too, must meet specifications for the operation of such units, does not mean that everyone can do whatever they want. You referred to the topographic chart, structure diagram and other procedures that are prerequisite for a small-scale authorisation for these prefabricated structures. And if anyone hasn't kept them, they're illegally performing tasks. I don't know the fifty pages you mentioned the complaints. I don't know them. But in any case, any complaint must be checked as a whole if it fulfils the legal requirements when a licence is issued by the relevant building service - I say again - in every municipality and in the specific work that we are discussing. As far as the General Urban Plan of the Municipality of Athens, of course, is concerned, as regards the suitability of use in the areas mentioned, and according to the 1987 Decree, the use of land in the area of Jacoba is that of the residence and, among other things, training buildings are allowed. Furthermore, you rightly referred to Article 220 of Law 4610/2019, which states the possibility of temporary placement of such structures for four years with the possibility of extending two years. Prefabricated kindergarten rooms with specifications - I say again - but without meaning that they must be inappropriate because they are temporary. With regard to prefabricated rooms are among other approved types, they meet the required safety requirements for static but also mechanical and, of course, meet and must meet accessibility, fire protection requirements. You have also referred to energy issues. And their position still within the plot should be with certain rules and not uncontrollablely. It is also necessary to agree - I think you have also referred to - an opinion of a three-member committee set up by a decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to check the completeness of the eligibility criteria. With regard to spatial distribution, this plot has been deemed to be inappropriate with the 19-03-2021 practical committee for the suitability of an unstructured plot. You said that there are ambiguities or not legal decisions in this committee. I don't know. I'm just saying there's a committee decision. If inappropriate conditions are met, they must be checked. As far as this property was concerned, it is not a public area of greenery, but is an unstructured plot, on which the Minaides-Photiadis industrial complex was previously operating and was demolished due to a poor situation following the purchase by the Municipality of Athens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, your tolerance. Parking and greening were temporary intervention until the area was exploited to meet the essential needs of the municipality and the municipalities. I would also like to say to you - and I do not want to take any more time - that this kind of intervention and until it is possible to obtain buildings which meet all the standards and permanent building facilities on which there are no land purchases - and because I have passed through areas of self-government, I can tell you that everywhere there are shortages of buildings due to a lack of land facilities in which and prerequisites must be developed these school units - any facility which is temporarily safe and at least meets the specifications you have mentioned on your part. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u277	We continue with our first question under number 1062/17-9-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Cyclades - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Syrmalenios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Enforcing the demand for openness of the smyrite mines of Naxos’. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in a few days' time we enter October 2021 and despite the promises of your Ministry's political leadership as early as May of this year and towards the club of smiths, but also towards the municipality of Naxos and small Cyclades, there is still no authorisation to open the smiths, so that there is very great insecurity in hundreds of smiths and their families. As you know, on governance SYRIZA, we had an obligation to open the smyrvigs by the end of the first semester by adopting, of course, the necessary security measures. Over the last two years, the government has chosen instead of opening the mines, to apply the collection model - selection of the already extracted smyrna, while at the same time it has removed from many smyroidists the entrenched meanings. Because this situation cannot continue, because insecurity cannot continue and because it cannot continue to open up the mines, a sustainable perspective must finally be given for the extraction of the smyrada and, at the same time, a holistic development of mountainous Naxos, which is the most "delayed" part of the island. So we ask the following questions: First, will you finally proceed to the opening of the symriviculture in 2021 and ensure a quantity of eight thousand tonnes to cover all the farm workers in insurance? Will you restore the injustice of 2019 by assigning to the symptoms the meanings that have been removed from them? Will all appropriate measures be taken to ensure the safe operation of mines in order to definitively lift any objections to the accident risk? Secondly, will a broader study be carried out with a view to the sustainable operation of symtriviculture on the one hand and, on the other hand, to function as an organic part of a holistic development in mountainous Naxos, or, finally, do you intend by diffusion to definitively abolish the mining activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u279	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for the time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, Naxos was one of the most important Greek minerals for a long period of time, as Naxos is the only syrrh production region in Europe and one of the few on the planet. The applications of this mineral are too many, after industrial processing. Although there is no longer much demand on the market, the smyrida, or else during the local dialect the smyrille, is even extracted today. We recognise the importance of mining activity for the economic, social and political life of the inhabitants of the island. However, it is important to ensure and protect the health of workers in the siliceries. During the period up to 2018, significant deficiencies have been identified which make the functioning of the myrritorial artichokes dangerous for the workers and the wider region. In particular, a failure to issue several required legal elements, such as the decision approving environmental conditions, the approval of a technical study, authorisations of gums and machine operators, has been identified. In addition, no care was taken to comply with the security measures adopted by the South Greece Inspectorate Service for each sympress mine. Deficiencies in ventilation, lighting and ground floor support were also recorded and the absence of a second exit in case of danger. There was no provision for the management of extractive solid waste and no scientific criteria for smyrna quality. The shrimp office presented major deficiencies in infrastructure and sub-station to technical staff. Finally, seizures were recorded in the air transport facilities of smyrda and increased risks for residents and transitors. Complaints were many, and we should not forget the smurf's fatal accident during his work in 2016. For these reasons, since 2018 the mining inspectors of the Southern Greece Inspection Body have been opposed to the execution of mining operations of the Naxos syrion. With a view to restoring any shortcomings and taking the necessary measures to ensure the safe reopening of clays for both workers and residents and passing through the area, the cessation of operations at this time was imperative and inevitable. Because I personally handled last year, my dear colleague, the issue and with the aim of giving way out, recognising the need within these particularities that I mentioned and which you know, we have given way out and solutions last year, and in the same direction we will be moving this year. However, in order to be able to function safely and not to have other side effects, there is a need for modernisation, improvements, environmental licensing, upgrading of equipment and much more. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] However, I repeat that until then there has been and is under way planning, as in the previous two years, to cover workers' insurance. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u281	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u282	Minister, you have spoken of a number of issues relating to the safe operation of mines, which I accept. I do not accept, however, that the death accident took place within the mines. He had nothing to do with it. It was an accident that took place outside the mines, and this was used as a pretext in the last two years, not to open the mines. The second thing I want to say to you is that in 2019, 270,000 euros had been entered into the Ministry's budget by our government for the restoration of the buildings and installations of the plums, as well as for the improvement of the safety conditions. I do not know if you have used this money in time to make progress in restoring all these shortcomings, which you are now talking about. A first point is that. The second issue relates to the fact that I will raise my questions about airspace, because in July 2019, on 31 July, after the elections, when you had taken place, I tabled a question, because some pillars had fallen and the air that carried the smyrda was completely destroyed. I have received no substantial response on this matter and no commitment on the part of your Ministry. So I wonder what you have done as a ministry after three years to deal with all these shortcomings that you have mentioned. That's a question. The second question is: In relation to the holistic study of the subject, we have commissioned a study to the IGM in order to see the overall use of this study and the sustainable operation of the smyrites, but also to see the overall use of the smyrada for a holistic development for mountainous Naxos. So, as far as I can see, we are at the zero point. And you tell us now, after all this time, that it will reoperate this year's theme of the emerald in the same way. First of all, have you restored the insurance right that in 2019 was it considered that workers will get, on the basis of Article 98 of Law 46852020, up to seventy-five marks and that the rest of the amount will belong to the State? Have you solved this? This is why there is a great deal of reaction from the hammer workers. And as you know very well, six villages in the mountainous Naxos, about four hundred families, are currently waiting to see the government's decision. And, of course, they are not satisfied with making a sorting on the already extracted smurf and even on these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr. Armachin. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you know that there are specific safety features in the installations as they are. It is not a question of demanding 200,000-250,000 euros to obtain the suitability of the installations in the picture they are in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u285	As a start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u286	I fully respect and know the villages you mentioned and know the peculiarities that exist. As in the previous two years at least and to a minimum for the insurance cover you have mentioned, the most appropriate way of legality is to make the move this year to cover insurance for all workers. I would like to say to you that in 2019 and 2020, for safety reasons, there was no way in which the syrite works were operated and we decided on the employment of workers in the sorting of quantities already extracted. This regulation ensures equal protection for all of them, and meets the conditions for the provision of insurance capacity to the single social security institution by the institution. A similar effort is made this year by the Ministry of the Environment and for 2021. In particular, as regards the employment of smyrgybirds in the sorting of already extracted smyrades, Article 98(2) of Law No.4685-2020 provides that the fulfilment of their insurance rights by calculating the delivery of a hundred and fifty-stage smyrfs of quality from each beneficiary of smyrite which is equal to seventy-five days of insurance in what you referred to per person, irrespective of the actual quantity recorded by each person. With regard to the current developments for the reopening of the mines, I say: The environmental impact study on the exploitation of the Naxos smurfs has received a positive opinion from the Central Board of Environmental Authorisations and a decision on the approval of Environmental Conditions is expected. At the same time, in the context of the partial restoration of the mining area of the smyrite mines this year, the sorting of smyria from old sterile deposits was proposed without mining operations being carried out. The reasons I mentioned and directly relate to operating and mining safety. So, with regard to the existing ones, I would like to tell you that there have been discussions on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment. And last year this was also done with the mayor, in order to find the best solution, so that we can legally secure and to a minimum ensure the insurance rights of workers, but at the same time there is a comprehensive plan for upgrading and modernising, so that Naxos' s mining works can operate safely and with a view. That wants a more decisive attitude than all of us from the local community, so that we can have a perspective. I agree with you that a problem needs to be solved definitively, because it is certainly not the best way in which it works, but at least until this possibility is obtained, safeguarding insurance rights and covering them is the least we should have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u287	Thank you. We are now continuing with the fourth under No 8432/686/4-8-2021 question and requesting the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP II Thessaloniki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The violation of legality and the opaque procedures against the public interest in the Management Body of Central Waste (FITISA) of the Ionian Islands shall continue. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tagaras, this question has been tabled in writing, it has not been answered by the beginning of August, as the President has said, and this is the second time that he has been tabled, because the first one had been submitted on 9 February. You understand that it is impossible to discuss so many issues of operation of an important body, such as a Solid Waste Management Agency, in the process of a timely question. If you have any documents to submit to us, please tell us in the first place, because otherwise the procedure cannot be changed. I am going to go into the substance because I owe it to you, telling you a number of basic issues of formal problems. First of all, I think you know that everything has been started by Law 4685, by the anti-environmental law of Mr Hatzidakis, when the powers of waste management have been removed from the municipalities and in the South Aegean and the Ionian Islands - we are talking about a statutory competence of the municipalities - and it has been given to a body in which most of the choices have been made by the region. Don't be fooled. Therefore, the operation of the Ionian LOAN has revealed too many problems. The first was that the General Assembly of the Body was never legally formed. The second is that representatives from the Regional Council, from the Ionian Region, were not correctly defined. Therefore, the Governing Council was not legally constituted. The third is that institutional representation has not been covered so that there is a representative of self-government from all regional units. As a result, the Deputy Minister of Interior then Mr Lebanon made it clear that it is a provision of forced law that all municipalities are represented. They're not represented. Therefore, the administration of the EBRD continues to function incompatible with the institutional framework and the provisions and decisions, even your State Secretary of Government. We proceeded, firstly, to a award by means of a programme contract to a body in another region. This practically states that no municipality could help. That, you know, is offensive. In fact, I remember the municipality of Kefalonia operating the facility. So it entrusts it to another ELDRAS IN THE DIFFERENCE by a very bizarre procedure and at the same time a project that was evolving with a budget clearly smaller, increasing and giving the option, i.e. doubling the budget. As you can see, Mr Secretary, these are not things that correspond to the rule of law and to the European Union. But all these administrations are doing this and let me tell you that the ministries allow them. They allow the FOD management to function this way. Finally, with technical details that have never been defined, there has been a competition - and we must say it clearly - on the assumption that this work will then be studied with specifications and objectives that have not yet been established. And within all of this has shown you're going to design the Ionian Islands and a secondary fuel production unit. In other words, you will also make the material for burning the Ionian Islands, which, as you can see, is completely absurd. I ask you directly to tell us what installation these materials will be used, because we are not just talking about 20 million projects which are the resources of the Greek people, but also about a utopian deadlock planning process. However, the point is that, while the body there is no legal representation or the establishment of bodies, it continues to decide with the management of tens of millions of euros for deadlock procedures in terms of solid waste management, despite the fact that there were recourses to municipal consultants and against the legality of acts that create further problems in the functioning of the FOD. So you have made a political decision - and this is the question, to conclude and forgive me, Mr President - to remove responsibility from self-government, to underestimate local society and the knowledge of local bodies, to commission with the option of tens of millions of euros with a strange natural object that does not correspond to waste management, and now there is a very serious deadlock at the beginning of the Ionian waste management. Tell me everything you know, Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u289	Unfortunately, questions that have not been answered have many questions. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, Mr Colleague, I will try to be as detailed as possible. The establishment and operation of the Solid Waste Management Body of the Ionian Islands is legal. In particular, under No 57715/13381/4-8-2020 Act of the Thematic Vice-President for Energy and Spatial Planning of the Ionian Islands, the legal recommendation of the entity under the distinctive heading ‘Ionian Islands S.A.’ was found. With regard to the legality of a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the Ionian Islands, I note that Law 468520, Article 93(6) is clear and states that the Board of Directors consists of seven members, the district councillor, two regional council members and four members elected by the representatives of the municipalities participating in the General Assembly. All four accreditation acts for Kefalonia, Zakynthos, Lefkada and Corfu, required in accordance with the previous Article, paragraph 9 of Law No 4685, have been issued to abolish the existing legal persons and the acquisition of the property in the Ionian Islands. The whole process has therefore been implemented legally. The Ionian Islands also became a universal successor to all the movable and immovable property and took over all the rights and obligations of the predecessors of the local VESH of the Ionian Islands Region, including the Waste Management Company Kefalonia and Ithaca, EDACI. For the transfer of movable and immovable property of waste management infrastructures a delivery-received protocol shall be drawn up and the decision of the coordinator of the relevant decentralised administration, as well as an extract from the inventory report describing the property acquired, shall be entered free of charge in the relevant books of the mortgage or real estate office. Therefore, it is not provided by the applicable municipal council decision. With regard to the Programming Convention of the Ionian Islands with the Company "Management of Waste Western Macedonia Anonymous Company", "DICA S.A.", this is legal because it is a body of solid waste management with technical competence and experience in the implementation of co-financed waste management projects. The newly founded Ionian Islands FOI does not yet have the necessary technical competence and staff to carry out its work successfully. For this reason, and precisely because the waste management projects are specialized, the Ionian Islands LEVEL concluded a programme contract with the "DDICA S.A.", in order to support the implementation of this project with its regional waste management plan. In particular, the ‘DICA S.A.’ was given support at all stages of the management of public contracts for the implementation of the project entitled ‘Completed waste management of Kefalonia’, as well as in the project entitled ‘Installation of municipal solid waste water treatment in Corfu’. This programme was checked and approved by the Court of Auditors in its decision No 813/7-12-20. I will present it to you with other attachments, my dear colleague, to be in your knowledge. Furthermore, there has been no knowledge of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority of any information - a complaint about the programme contract until at least now. The remuneration of “DDICA S.A.” is EUR 43,000 plus VAT and includes all procedures up to the signature of the contract with the contractor. The main reason for not incorporating the remuneration of “DICAH S.A.” in the programming contract for its role as a management service for the implementation of the project is that this may not be necessary, because until then the Ionian Islands LEVEL may have been adequately staffed and carried out on its own. As I said, however, I will table - and it is at your disposal, my dear colleague - the Court of Auditors' decision and the programming contract, but also other elements that you have asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u292	It is a fact that it takes a great deal of effort, Minister, to understand how it is possible to have so many violations of the institutional framework. I do not know if we live in 1960 or 1950, but I will remind you of something: firstly, the control of the legitimacy of a body of government is not done by the region. So it cannot be legalized that the thematic vice-president should control it, but the decentralised administration. We won't forget what we know. The decentralised administration, therefore, with the special committee referred to in Article 152 on 28-5-2021 in Resolutions 4 and 5, accepted the appeals and considered that there was a lack of legality in the establishment and functioning of the EBRD. So the committee responsible has decided. Where did you find it that someone else judges legality and even the Vice-President? There is no institutional framework. Secondly, you said that everyone was rightly represented. In other words, you disprove Mr Livanio, your colleague, State Secretary, who made it quite clear that it should be implemented in 236 of Law 4555. Find them within the government. This is a document by Mr Levanios. Thirdly, you told us that there is not enough staff, and that CVO has to go to another CVO. I asked you another question. The municipalities operated the facilities and have sufficient staff and know-how. Why did the government decide to underestimate the municipalities in the region and the inhabitants and to cooperate with a body in another region and, as you mentioned, without having cleared the budget? So someone now gets a contract to the Greek public under the logic of "seeing and doing"? And do you have EUR 20 million optional contracts for project contractors by'seeing and doing'? Fourth point, which I asked you: do you have provision for secondary fuel production in the contracts. But this is not provided for in regional planning, it is contrary to the European Union's directives which do not provide for combustion, and at the same time you are planning a source sorting aid. So you are also opposed to the European directive. So what's going on in the Ionian Islands? Party? Tell us where the legality is kept? One thing you can tell us. It is not respected in representation. No awards shall be made. The strategy is not being adhered to. Where is it kept, Mr. Undersecretary? Here too, there is a very serious issue. The management of the institution is challengingly ignoring the letter and the spirit of the decentralised decision-making and continues to unlawful, by creating a fait accompli, regarding the management of public resources. I found the decision 62/2021 that entrusts the maintenance of the facilities to the contractor who has the next work, because it is immediate, he says, the problem, because there were damages in 2020, that is, last year. Where does the emergency come from? And the reasoning is that they do not have the know-how so that they can resolve the matter. But you told us that they had a contract with another body to get know-how. What's going on right there? And they also characterize the fire last year as an urgent need and say that they could not start a earlier competitive process. And I have more. They chose the same contractor as a maintenance contractor, because, he says, he says, there will be a risk of accidents and a division of responsibilities between contractors. Is it possible for a project to take the contractor of the building next door so they won't crash their cars? That's what you're telling us. Are things that happen in the Greek State in 2021? Not to say that they have identified urgently the operation of the landfill site to avoid procedures for publicity and transparency due to COVID. And we see that all of this is going on with too many actions. A practical award has been approved, but a tender procedure has been set up by the Article 152 Committee and the creation of this competitive procedure has been cancelled, not to say that there was a contract up to now, as I see it here in the FISA, with the periphery for restoring damage from the ‘IAN’. As you can see, Mr President, and Mr Secretary-General, the reason why we are doing parliamentary scrutiny is because there is no legality, there is a question of managing public money, and at the same time there is a serious problem of guidance, because all we see is assignments to contractors with bizarre procedures up to burning in the Ionian. You're both undersecretaries here. I haven't seen it anywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we see many things in Europe that are not here. Finally, however, we must put an end to a problem of time, which has been unacceptably delayed, not by improvisation, even after what the Europeans you are talking about have been following in years. You mentioned the issue of secondary fuel production and the target set by the European Union at 10%. You know, too, that in order to be able to achieve a residue eventually that will go for burying, for management, only one way exists, if before there has been secondary fuel production, if the amount of waste has been used energy to reach a balance of 10% that will go for management. Otherwise, there is no way we can achieve 10%. And not us, that's what the outsiders do before us. You referred to economic issues, as far as the assessment of the cost of budget expansion is concerned. These will be judged in the competitive process under way and we will also see the price because everything is going on and will be completed soon, so we will also have the results of the competitive process. I told you that, in terms of competitive procedures and programming contracts, the Court of Auditors' document I submitted to you to be available to you on the competitive procedure so far at least does not refer to a problem. I have submitted to you both the programming contract and the source of funding. For everything else we are here and at your disposal. And let's see how they end up. As far as the Ionian Islands VESAC is concerned, it took a key step towards solving a problem of time. What happened with the garbage summers and winter seasons and tourist seasons, without a solution, we all know it. I don't think he's paying tribute to any of us delaying any more. Everything will be judged by the result, both in terms of economics and environmental considerations. An option was provided in the tender documents for the construction of the project for additional extension work or for additional equipment. The exercise of a right shall be left to the discretion of the contracting authority. For projects awarded by the manufacturing design system and on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer on the basis of the price-quality ratio, as in our case, candidate economic operators with their technical offer shall submit a final study on the adjustment work referred to in the option, as they do for the contractual object of the project. In this study, the option is finalised by each economic operator, and this undertakes to apply if the option is finally exercised. With regard to the competitive process, for which the contracting authority is discussing, it will follow its model of declaration for a waste treatment plant with the manufacturing design system and Article 86 of Law 4412/2016 with the operation of an installation and optional adaptation work, approved by the Single Independent Public Contract Authority. I would like to point out here that if the option is exercised by the Ionian Islands' Ionian Islands, this will in any case and in such a way that the waste is compatible with the regional waste management plan as well as with the National Waste Management Plan. My dear colleague, I think we all agree that the issue of waste and waste management is a crucial bet that, after too many delays, we all have to move out, of course with objectivity, with transparency, but also with a view to solving a problem that has so much troubled us and certainly does not look forward to any of us, Mr President, and that is why we are moving in the direction of giving a solution and a way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u295	Thank you. We continue with our second question with No 1060/16-9-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The next actions of the Greek side on German allowances on the basis of the Greek Parliament's findings". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite the fact that it is not about your portfolio and it is not about the question, you will allow me to begin with the fact of the day, the earthquake we have had today centred on Heraklion. Pending the full and complete picture, I will not dwell at all on the interest of the President of our party, nor on the instructions he has given or on the action that SYRIZA has already begun to relieve the affected parties. I would like to stand by one fact, however, that the people of Heraklion live with earthquakes for many months now. We have often spoken and asked for the state's timely intervention. On 28 July the MPs of SYRIZA Heraklion submitted a report on the subject of declaring the area "semitism", a request from the municipality, a request from the cultural associations, the institutions of the region, scientists, etc. However, the government has deafened. Today we had a first discomfort among the residents who gathered at the concentration station and there was no chair sitting, over-aged people. There wasn't a bottle of water. I'm saying it was a first discomfort. I'm using a very mild word for the first hours of the event. Let me close this parenthesis with a completely personal reference. I would like to express my grief for the unjust death of our friend and neighbor who was killed today by James Tsagarakis. To wish his family strength and patience. I want to wish for quick and complete recovery to the wounded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Comrade, it's all right, but you have a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u298	I'm coming to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u299	I understand everything, but it's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u300	My question concerns the issue of German allowances and the claim of German debts by the German State. We have been here many times, and we have discussed this issue and Members of Parliament and other parties. Today, however, I think that we need clear, clear answers for clear actions, as to how to follow up the House's conclusion. After the last answer, Germany's rejection in the Greek private communication itself, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied to a previous question that claims are and will remain valid, political and legal. Today I would like you to explain in practice what this 'politically and legally inalienable' means. How and what steps does the Greek Government intend to take in an active foreign policy so that these political and legal unreasonable claims can really remain and be claimed? Apart from this theme and how the government intends to move on to the legal claim of these Greek requirements from Germany, there is a study based on the historical archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which speaks of setting up a special office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to concentrate, exploit the archaeological material, both in the direction of internationalisation and the practical mobilisation and vindication of the claims of the country. I would like you to answer that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to hear your question because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify our attitude to a subject that is afflicting all our society and much more this House, the issue of war compensation from the two world wars over Germany. I am also very sensitive to the issue where you started the earthquake this morning in Heraklion. We feel the same sensitivity as you. We are very sad about what has happened. We hope that we will only be limited to material damage from this evil which has found us this morning. As far as I am concerned today, Greece's relations with Germany as you know are very good and at the same time very complex. We are allies and partners in the European Union and also in NATO. Our cooperation has been developed in many areas, including, among others, economy, investment, migration, etc. This has done the institutionalised action plan since 2017 and frequent contacts at a very high level. The action plan, ladies and gentlemen, is the main road map on which economic diplomacy is moving in its relationship with Germany. However, there are still differences between our countries. Here is the question of selling and exporting submarines from Germany to Turkey, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendias, has requested in a letter to Mr. Maas's counterpart since October 2020. Our attitude to this issue remains unstoppable. Yesterday, September 26, there were parliamentary elections in Germany. We are in the middle of processes that will lead to the formation of the new German government. Pending developments, I assure you that Greece will continue to raise the issue of German war debts in this new government. With regard to the question you made more directly, I would like to point out that our claims to Germany, Mr Igoumenides, are and will remain valid, politically and legally, indiscriminate, active and claimable by any means until they are satisfied. Our position has been formally expressed, but is also repeated on the German side at every opportunity and at every level. This includes all the necessary steps in our country. I would also like to remind you that following the report of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on the vindication of German debts in 2016 and the relevant decision of the Greek Parliamentary Assembly of April 2019, a financial communication was served to the German Foreign Ministry on 4-6-2019 in which the Greek Government called on the German Government to enter into negotiations to resolve the outstanding issue of Greece's claims for debts to the Federal Republic of Germany from the two world wars.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u303	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u304	I just need twenty seconds to complete my prototype. As is well known, on 18-10-2019 the German side rejected the Greek invitation by a private announcement, repeating the standing position that it did not enter into negotiations. With a new private communication of 29-1-2020 issued by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the German Ambassador, it was stressed that for Greece the issue will remain open until the final satisfaction of these claims. We therefore believe that Greece's claims for debts of the Federal Republic of Germany from the two world wars express the vast majority of the Greek Parliament and reflect the Greek people's wish. We will continue to show them by every appropriate means until they are satisfied. Our aim, of course, is to resolve this issue in a mutually acceptable manner, resulting from negotiation and dialogue with Germany. Finally, I would like to assure you that the relevant agencies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs systematically deal with all aspects of this complex dispute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u305	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u306	Minister, it seems that the debate on financial communications has been exhausted, because both the German Government and the majority of the German parliament reject them. The majority of German Members close the door in a transnational debate and consultation of a major historical and national issue. That's the first thing we have to keep. So, regardless of the outcome of the elections, regardless of German elections, the attitude of that State is unified and rejected in Greece's claims. Secondly, you said and I did not want to talk about this today, but, as you spoke about our relations with Germany and with Turkey, the overall tactics of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government are certainly not the only ones in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an advanced Western jailhouse in Turkey. Have we prevented the genuinely unprecedented questioning our sovereign rights from Turkey with the attitude you have taken? We are talking about Turkey's association with the European Union. Did you ensure sanctions in Turkey, as long as it violates international law? You have lost the opportunity even with the election of Biden, giving it all - exactly as I said, I do not take it back, advanced Western prison - to force the Americans, by changing the government, to force them by the east allies in NATO. In any case, let us not talk about all these issues. So Germany responds negatively to our claims, and the question is this. Are we going to legally claim compensation from the State of Germany, yes or no? The question is, what is the Greek Government's legal preparation? Base - I guess you don't deny it - is the Greek Parliament's conclusion. But what is the legal preparation for the internationalisation of the issue, for the pressure to accept this request? And I shall refer to a last one, which is a request for institutions. There is the legal instrument, nine thousand in the case of a claimant for an amount. The recourse to justice for the victims of Nazi and fascist atrocities is made by the judiciary for many forbidden. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the request is that legal proceedings for damages should be excluded because of mental suffering, regardless of the amount or jurisdiction, when the cause of death is war crimes, holocausts and so on. That is the request for the abolition of the judiciary for German allowances. It is a request from the National Board of Appeal. It's a request for victims' associations. It is a request to which Mr Tsiaras, your Government's Minister for Justice, replied 'fair, fair' and others, I am not talking about all, 'and we will shortly be taking a legislative initiative'. Do you know when he said it? Twenty months ago. How soon is it for your government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u307	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Igoumenides, not all of us do in our government. I'm not going to answer these questions. I will respond to issues relating to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will start with the secondary part you mentioned, primarily for our foreign policy, which is our relationship with Turkey. I will only devote ten seconds so that I can devote the time required in my dentistry to answer your question that we have come here today. With the neighbouring country we have red lines and we also have a positive agenda. No one can blame this government for having an effective foreign policy, particularly as far as our neighbourhood is concerned. And I am proud to be leading the positive agenda with Turkey when my other colleagues are dealing with the red lines and the issues we can do and we can not do with them. As far as we are concerned, the outstanding issue of German war debts has been raised on several occasions by Greece to the German side officially and at every level. It is not a timely demand and the fact that you express the opposition and I am a government minister does not mean that we cannot agree on what we agree. There's a consensus on this matter. We also believe what you believe, namely, that the war damages exist. It is an issue that is still pending. Our position is clear and firm. The disastrous consequences for our country, due to the two world wars, have not been erased from historical memory. In this context, of course, there are also witnessing places in the Occupation. Recently, in March 2021, a debate took place at the Federal Assembly of Germany resolutions of the Die Linke and the Green parties, respectively, on the occasion of the eighty-fifth anniversary of the invasion of Vermacht in Greece and on the issue of compensation and corrections. These resolutions were not able to obtain the required majority in the German parliament, but were widely discussed and analysed in German and Greek media. The fact that the issue continues to concern the societies of Greece and Germany demonstrates its importance. We believe that the relevant negotiations would have a positive effect on the further promotion of long-term and multi-level Greek-German relations for the benefit of both countries. I conclude by saying that for Greece - and by stressing it, Mr Igoumenides - the issue of German war debts remains open until our claims are met. There is the national consensus I referred to earlier when I said that we agree in practice and the will to do so. The actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of our country are carried out with responsibility and consistency, with the coordination of all the relevant services, which means the service leadership, the political address, the special legal service, the Greek Embassy in Berlin and others, but also with civil society which can and must play a role in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u309	Thank you. We continue with the fifth under No 1066/17-9-2021 topical question from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Ioannis - Progressive Alliance Mr.Mr.Ioannina Voufis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Cleaning and protection of the aesthetic forest of Ioannina'. You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the topical question concerns the protection of the aesthetic forest of the Ioannina, an important green and recreational lung in the city, which has a very decisive role to play in maintaining the balance and sustainability of the environment, climate and life in the urban fabric and, of course, it also plays an important role in the part of environmental pollution that is important, as the problem of smog in the winter months is well known throughout the basin. It has an area of a thousand acres and it is almost entirely surrounded by houses, which creates the need to create a firefighting zone in the area. Every year some cleaning work is done, of course, by people who do not have the necessary knowledge and responsibilities. In the two years 2017-2019 they worked in the forest through the public works programme thirty-five persons of various specialties who had been trained for this purpose by the officials of the forest. It was a SYRIZA programme with five thousand sixty-six employees, which unfortunately stopped. According to all the data, important work was done, but it did not continue. In 2020, the Ministry requested EUR 20,000 for the maintenance of fire protection tanks and EUR 100,000 for the necessary annual cleaning operations, but the Ministry did not send any money. According to the Political Protection of the Region of Epirus on our visit, the necessary money was not sent or the necessary recruitment of contract staff, and thus, from the perpetrators, it offered technical assistance for the water tanks to operate. On the other hand, this work is complex because it involves the municipality - children's joys, sports organs - the JHA, which is responsible for the water tanks, the Forest and Fire Service, which controls fire hydrants, fire horns for volunteers and often arises, as you know, very serious coordination problems resulting from serious delays. Of course these issues do not only concern the aesthetic forest of the Ioannina, because in the past we have asked many parliamentary questions and other urban forests, such as the woods of Sheikh Sou, or the problems that existed in the northern Athens area of similar texture. I therefore ask you to put yourself in place and commit that there will be stable funding so that this work can be possible throughout the year and separate funding for the fire-fighting network. Will you take care of the early recruitment of personnel capable of offering work throughout the year, specialized in forestry and, of course, of supplying flexible cars that can remove residues? And what are you going to do to coordinate effectively all the actors involved - not a formal meeting of each May - in order to distinguish the roles and clear the plan for this type of work, which, as I said, relate not only to this particular aesthetic salt, but to all the others that are within urban areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, we are both from the same place, from the beautiful and blessed Jannas. We are very well aware of the concerns and efforts of the people of the Forestry of Ioannina, the Firefighting, the Civil Protection of the Region, the Municipality of Ioannina and the voluntary organisations, regarding our urban leaps and forests. We both know from the outside and undisturbed, I imagine, the problems of our country and it is good to work together so that we can solve the problems and upgrade the quality of life of the residents. From your position I reject what you said that every year the officials of the Forestry of Ioannina are doing cleaning work, etc. without having the necessary knowledge and responsibilities. Where does that come from? Why are you underestimating the officials of the Forestry of Ioannina? Why do you underestimate our fellow citizens? And knowledge has, and role has, and responsibilities have, and the means have, and I will tell you immediately. First of all, it is not just the sums that you have said. I would also like you to clarify in your second language what you said you and the Regional Policy have gone to the aesthetic forest and there the regional representatives have told you that work is not done properly, that cleaning is not done, that dilutions are not done. I would like you to clarify that. I didn't understand it the way you said it. Has the Region of Epirus said - and I would like to know it responsibly - that the Ioannina Forest and the co-responsible bodies and stakeholders in the work of cleaning the forest and its firefighting do not do their job well? I would like you to clarify that, please. So listen to the money, let me first come to the pedestrian, but it is essential, the money and the credit we have given. First, the Forest of Ioannina implements two projects with a budget of EUR 33,733 for cultivation, logging and cleaning work at the public aesthetic forests of the city of Ioannina, primarily in the aesthetic forest of the thousands of acres of our city. Apart from others, they support the forest road network. And I would also like to tell you that this project is being completed in October, it started in May. The study "Forestry work on the Meadani" budget item EUR 11 000 was also approved. It's a very important project that enhances fire protection. As well as the Municipality of Ioannites has received nearly 70,000 euros from the Ministry of Interior for fire protection actions. We all know that the biggest forest is this, most of the money goes there. Perhaps someone can claim that this money is very little. I will say that they clearly need more. We keep this in mind, and we'll do it. Of course, we will give more money, because for the first time in our forest history, we in the Ministry of the Environment, what have we done? To fund with EUR 70 million management studies. To know at last in the forests, whether they are within the boundaries of settlements or outside, what the biomass has accumulated, what the fuel is, how each forest is to be harvested, what is its print on the environment and not just, but also on the economic and social life of the areas with which it is adjacent. One more thing. You say here in your question what we're going to do about the supply of vehicles 4X4. I will therefore inform you that I have signed a decision to finance the Forestry of Ioannina, the Konitsa Forestry, Metsovo Forestry. They had too many years to take vehicles. And I am sorry to say that for four and a half years your government has not even given a skateboard to these forests. That's where we do it. And we don't stop here. In my dentistry, I will tell you the rest, that we are now planning in a uniform way, with uniform criteria and with great funding for all the forests in the country to perform their role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u313	Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Secretary, you preferred to fight me and not answer the questions I asked you! We are well aware of the efforts made by forest services, which, as I know, are extremely subordinated. It should and should be better staffed, because prevention really saves the forest, and we know that when a fire comes, the cost is - and we know it the year that passed - insuperable both livestock and forestry and agricultural land. I don't want to come to that. You referred to certain specific things. I was clear, and I said this: the Forest Service previously had the possibility of this staff, which I mentioned, which the forestry services were training and could thus be much more effective. This possibility has ceased to exist, and what is being done is that it is entrusted to a contractor and indeed with resources that are from other programmes, so that he can make this elementary cleansing. And, of course, this is not enough because we need people who are trained, skilled to be able to do much better. The second thing I have told you is that there is a very serious problem of coordinating all the services, which everyone has a piece, so there is a great difficulty. I could mention more specific examples of whether the water tanks and technical problems were working or not, which were the objectors trying to resolve. So these can be critical. There should therefore be a specific form of cooperation between all these services, which, as I said before, also emerges in other areas that we have tabled specific questions. Now about what we did and what you did. Let me remind you here that SYRIZA has permanently inhabited two thousand two hundred five-year-old firefighters, hired nine hundred five-year-olds and doubled the seasonals even though it had serious economic suffocation issues. Let me remind you that in April I asked why the organic fire-fighting positions in Ioannina Prefecture were arbitrarily reduced forty and, even yesterday, there was a concrete demonstration of fire-fightingers with the slogan "good at fires, winter at lies", claiming their rights so that they could do their job properly. The last thing I want to say to you - why you referred to what we did or did not do - is this. At the Epirus Regional Programme and on civil protection, a call was issued in 2018 for the strengthening of civil protection structures and for the fight against forest fires of three million euros, for the equipment of the Fire Corps and the Epirus Region and for the supply of passenger vehicles and special equipment, under which only one year after two and a half years has been implemented with thirty transport vehicles, which are in fact eighteen intended for concession to municipalities. In addition, there is a regional plan for adaptation to climate change, an obligation of the region since 2016. It has been approved by the Regional Council following a recommendation from the Environment Directorate. The Epirus Region has entered into a contract with a technical consultant for the elaboration, but that's where we are. We have no more specific things that are very important, because climate change is ahead of us and the issues are open. And two final remarks. There have been many fires this year in the Ioannina Prefecture and, fortunately, thanks to the heroic effort of all the people who gave their souls, we have not had any significant losses. There was also a civil fire in the Gianniotikos Salonis or a Park of Psiniella, which had been granted to the Municipality of Ioannistes for four years and has not yet been taken care of and exploited. And last year there was a fire near the Asylum Centre, very close to the urban fabric. I therefore ask you to make specific commitments, resources and actions and not to fight us. A concrete and conscious attempt must be made here to implement and not stay on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, my colleague. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. No, of course not. I'm not fighting with you. That's all he was missing. And, furthermore, I never get into what you, what we did, did more to one, the other did less. I'm just putting some things in place and I'm really glad to see that you've taken back this first place, that officials at the Ioannina Forest do not have the necessary knowledge to make cleanings and fire protection plans. I'm glad you got it back because it was insulting. We, too, honor firefighters, honour forest workers, we also honor the officials of the Regional Protection Policy. We also honor municipal officials. We honor all those, as do volunteers, who fight for the forest or for the altar that is next to their home. Now, let's be a little more specific about something you said. Why did you leave the aesthetic forest of Ioannina and talk about fire fighting and, more generally, civil protection? So let us be specific about the issue you raised in your question and then abandon it. Before the beginning of this year's anti-missile season, the annual check and maintenance of the water tanks and the fire-fighting network were completed. That is where I would point out that, yes, there have been malfunctions. We've seen them. They were mainly found on the automatic supply of the fire-fighting network. Problems have been addressed, problems have been solved with the cooperation of the Forestry which has done a very good job - I hope you do not question that - of the Firefighting and, of course, of the Region's Civil Protection, which made money and staff available. The cleaning work in the forest of Ioannina was carried out by the Forest Service with the assistance of the Fire and Staff Students as part of the practical exercise on the subject of forest science and various voluntary organizations. Dilutions were made, cleansed, trimming was done to remove trees of high height, located throughout the perimeter of the aesthetic forest, in a band of 10 to 20 meters wide, and to create a sheltered zone to protect the houses that are adjacent to the forest. And since I referred to this, I would like to inform you of the following. We know and see and we want and we will implement it and we are now implementing it and we are now applying it to have uniform criteria for a way of early, rapid problem-solving in relation to the cleaning of the alkalis. Today I signed a circular that I sent to all the forests in the country, which we tell them that we should respond within twenty days to the e-mail that any citizen will send and say: "In my courtyard, talking about outside the settlement, "There is a tree that is either old or sick, or naughty or dangerous." Within twenty days, the Forestry will have to do an autopsy and give permission. If the Forestry doesn't do it in twenty days, there's a silent consensus and approval of this intervention. We are talking about pruning, cutting and cleaning in yards, gardens, olive groves, vineyards, and hydronomial land. It is a small reform, but very important. Those who are listening to us and who have dealt with the matter know that so far it has been very difficult for them to whip the sick tree in their courtyard or the one who had been leaning and touching their roof. And ending up telling you this. Now that forest services have gone, gone and gone from decentralised administrations to us at the Ministry of the Environment, now we are sure and ready to run much faster things that were stuck in bureaucracy. I gave you a small example of the pruning of trees. We are interested in uniform and effective planning and something last - and I conclude, Mr President - cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection and Climate Crisis, since we are now putting on our brigade and the high priority that we are facing the climate crisis, strengthening biodiversity and increasing the quality of life of residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u317	We are now continuing with the seventh under number 1076/20-9-2021, a topical question by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Elisabeth (Bettas) Scooter to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The brown farmers of Pierre are being tried hard. Their support is necessary.’ Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u318	Minister, as the title of the timely question I have put, the brown producers of Pierre and the entire country are being tested hard and suffocated and struggled. In particular, early September, payment notices were provided from local forest addresses to Catalan farmers with a suffocating one month period in order for farmers to pay the price of use. If they do not pay the revised price of use and if they do not place fixed and built landmarks - so we are talking about additional costs to demarcate the limits of their chestnuts, while, at the moment, there is already an electronic database with the coordinates of each field - they will withdraw the concessions, they will be declared inferior and, in addition, will pay a fine of EUR 3 000 per acre. The period shall end on 9 October. Problem one. Already by e-mail to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy on January 26th, this year, by expressing, of course, all the brown producers in the country, we called for the last FLAG 2020 to have retroactive power so as not to create two-speed brown farmers by increasing the unequal treatment of the same group of brown producers from the Ministry. Problem two. The payment of the price of use comes at a time when the brown farmers for the fifth consecutive year are tested by two diseases, the chestnut wedge and last year and by the brown rotting of the chestnut. And, in addition, these diseases brought down production last year - be careful - to 80%. This problem concerns only seven thousand acres in Pieria and concerns farmers who do not produce chestnuts. It's the only income of these families. First question: do you intend to adjust the above-mentioned CSR to have retroactive effect? And, secondly, do you wish to: do you intend to suspend payment of this price or, anyway, to extend the payment of the price at least until the necessary action is taken by the Ministry to deal with the two diseases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs Skoufa, the issue of support for the brown farmers has been particularly concerned with the Ministry of the Environment, as has, of course, been concerned with the Members who come from areas where these chestnut crops exist. With Mr. Fanta Baraliakos, your MP and your constituent, with Mr. Savva Snowides and Mrs. Anna Mani - Papadimitriou have discussed this too many times. We know the issues and you and you, like all of us, are very well placed to support a sector that we consider to be important. There are seven thousand acres in Pieria. Throughout Greece there are four hundred and fifty thousand acres of cultivation, as in Arcadia many which are delicious. Almost eighteen thousand tons of chestnut are produced each year. So we want to be next to the brown farmers, and we have proved this KHS to which you refer, the joint ministerial decision, and I understand that you accept it and consider it good from the joint ministerial decision we have brought and signed, because we have reduced the price of chestnuts to pay for the land granted. We have therefore streamlined the way and the price of using these areas to 10% of the value of forest land, and we thought - that is what the joint ministerial decision said - that in no case is the existing forest vegetation being evacuated. On the contrary, we considered this joint ministerial decision and the brown farmers were aware of this, that agricultural measures are being applied to these areas. I would remind you, of course, that your own government has done something different, has something else. He considered brown-growing intervention in the woods and imposed a price for use. Indeed, it was much higher in return for use, and it was necessary for the chestnuts to pay far more money than what we eventually brought as regulation and I am glad that you accept and invoke this arrangement. It was a significant financial aid to these producers, because in fact some of these growers draw their only income from this crop. We have therefore met their request to reduce their costs, but also for the doses. We have therefore brought thirty-two quarterly equal instalments in eight years, with a minimum of 100 euros. They recognize that. I also know about the patients you have said and, of course, we are particularly concerned with the issue of retrospectiveness. All these months, we haven't sat down with your hands crossed. We've commissioned the legal working party, looking at a lawmaker that works for us at the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, to find a solution. It's a complex problem. However, we are looking for a solution, and in my dentistry I shall report it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u321	Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u322	Starting with my three colleagues you mentioned, I don't know exactly what you've discussed at the Ministry. I shall refer to the actions of my own parliamentary office, which has already tabled five parliamentary control instruments, three questions for both the Ministry of the Environment and for the Ministry of Rural Development. Clearly you will tell me that you are not responsible for agricultural matters, but when we go to impose something - rightly I will say - we need to see what we are imposing it and what is the current situation and problems of the people who are called to pay a price. So five are the parliamentary means of control for me. You have referred to the revised CSCE, which is in agreement with me, in part. You have not, however, referred to something which is very important to me again. With the actions of the Parliamentary Office and the actions of the two Members of the previous Members on SYRIZA and Mr Famelou's Minister, we managed and financed a programme from the Green Fund in 2017 and 2018 and a beneficial insect in Pieria imported from Italy, because we had no other fight instrument in 2018 and 2019. From 2020 onwards? In one of the questions, the answer is that the programme of biological control of chestnut wedge is being launched in Pieria. I would point out again - because the situation is complex - that has also happened with the Ministry of Rural Development. In 2018 and 2019, in collaboration with the Benacio Plant Health Institute, it has been launching in Pieria and since 2020 ends its programme and its funding and implementation by the Ministry of Rural Development. So since 2020, the brown farmers in Pierre who, for five years, last year as a fourth year - is important, Minister, because they are not employees, they do not receive a stable income, their only income is brown-growing - they have 80% reduction in production and this year they do not know how much they will be. And here again, Mr Voridis called for a teleconferencing conference with mayors to whom I was the only Member who, while raising this matter by parliament, has not been invited and promised de minimis as compensation. The de minimis payments were not paid. What are we asking? Again, we ask that the payment of this price should be suspended or that more extended deadlines be given, at least until there is some movement from the Ministry that, since you have two diseases, you are devastated by the crops, something we are doing! It does not only require the state to pay for it. Secondly, we are calling for a retrospective force of the CSR so that one 80 euro per acre is not paid by one hundred euros next to the other on the basis of the previous EUR 300 per acre. Thirdly, there should be a reduction or a classification of the fine of thirty-three thousand euros per acre. It is not possible for small violations to pay three grand and the other one who has built a villa again pays three grand per acre. Also, you may not, or if you do not wish to give retroactive effect, at least, grant beneficiaries the possibility to waive the right and withdraw the concession decisions without any impact, provided that the forest character of the land has not been altered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u323	Please, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. We are very interested in standing next to primary production, to producers, and especially to brown farmers. That is why, as you quite rightly acknowledged, we have made a great deal of effort by reducing the price of using these areas to 10% of their forest value. This gave a lot of breath to the brown farmers, and since the county has several active chestnuts, I'm not sure you've been taken. Let's go see the retrospective now. We've been looking into it too hard for months. Our decision is to find a solution for retroactiveness. I'm telling you quite clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u325	The deadline's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u326	I know the deadline is over. What's the matter? There are some legal issues that need to be overcome. What are these? The current legislation does not consider that there is a time limit to justify the retroactive effect of the use price for a reasonable period of time from the past. But - I say this again - we are working on legal solutions, because we want to make it easier for the brown farmers more and for this joint ministerial decision that we have signed, of course, we have also defined some other things that are very important in relation to the health control of chestnuts, which you have also mentioned about their illness. And, of course, there is also a need for chestnut farmers to take care of trees, vaccination, the purification of wild vegetation, additional plantations of chestnut trees or other forestry management measures. They must also take all preventive and repressive measures, in accordance with the conditions of the concession or the suggestions of the relevant forestry service in order to protect their farming effectively. They must check the origin of the planting material for any inflammation, the ulcer of the chestnut and the insect of the chestnut wedge that has actually caused problems and in collaboration with the Ministry of Rural Development and its bodies to take immediately - first to give them the warning - they must proceed to the treatment and protection measures of the tree. We will also finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development - we will tell you this, and Mr. Spilios Lebanese - measures to combat parasitic and pathogens. So, as I said earlier, in conclusion, all the issues are dealt with. We want to support, strengthen more chestnuts, and I believe that we will soon be able to make announcements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u327	The second question, under number 1078/20-9-2021, of the second question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Direct measures for the absorption of winestuffs - Support for winegrowers, winemaking and cooperatives', will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the honourable Member. Also, the fourth question under number 1065/17-9-2021 in the second cycle of MP A' Eastern Attica, Ms Maria Apatzides, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Possibility of compensation for firefighting tenants of business premises', will not be discussed because of the obstruction of Ms. We continue with the fifth under number 78880/8-7-2021 question of the cycle of the petitions and questions by the MP II Thessaloniki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "What progress of water projects in Thessaly?" Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, Mr. Amyras. Have a good week. Let's hope we get a good result out of this debate. Maybe it's a good coincidence that you're here today and not Mr. Screkas. It is a question which was put on 9 July. He didn't answer in writing. It's a big question, too. It monitors progress of projects. Let us know if you will submit a document, because I understand that you cannot refer to all of this. A detailed monitoring of the outstandings is needed. The Ministry of Rural Development replied on 30 July and the Ministry of Infrastructure on 2 August. However, the Ministry of the Environment did not respond and because the former Special Secretariat for Water, the General Secretariat for the Environment now, monitors the Leaflet Management Plans, you understand that it was very critical and we need your answer. What's the content? We are talking about the progress of the water resources projects in Thessaly. We have the Revised Plan of 2017, we know the very big problem of the Thessaly deficit, the dispute that has arisen over the initial solution of the Acheloos diversion, which was included in the 2014 plan, and the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State in 2014, which was, of course, issued after the preliminary procedures of the European Court of Justice and the current 2017 Management Plan. Here, let us say that in December, the Council of State examined this project, confirmed it, rejected the appeals of the Region of Thessaly and the Regional Association of Municipalities and, indeed, said that the scenario was fully compatible with the directive, there was a sufficient technical evaluation, all the criteria for consultation have been laid down and the projects are fully costly. In any case, you probably know them, because there is now an absolute shield in the design. However, apart from the issue of diversion, because it is important not only to deal with it - perhaps this was the fault of the region - we have important issues in a timely manner. I'll tell them in titles to catch up: Firstly, the issue of saving or limiting over-consumption in irrigation. It's a big deal. We need to find a solution path. The second is that although projects seem irrigated - they may be small, but something is happening - in any case, we have no fingerprints of a irrigation economy. The important thing is that there has been a series of projects in the second package that had been launched since 2014. I mention: Ayonerios dam, Narthaki, Kaklizorema, Deleria, Lethai, which appears to be delaying or in the unclaimed, and there is no reference to the dams of the third beam and I refer to the Gate Dam, Paleoderli, Low Mousakio, Kalouda, Neochoritis, Good Water, Saint Antonio. Anyway, it's a lot. Let's talk about it in time on the basis of their introduction to the management plans. That is why they are called the first, second, third phase. That's why there's no mention. And it seems that there is no maturity in the rest of the lakeworks - let's call it this way - the softest works, the most ecosystemally, while I don't know if you've been informed, but a programme contract that we started with a lot of difficulty in the middle of 2019, with a periphery, the Municipality of Kileer, the Municipality of Larissa and the Ennaia Road, Ennaia Street sent us a document that was interrupted, which was the only water supply project that we started in the area. So let's start like this - and I'm sorry, Mr. President, so far - what do you know? Where is he? Are you watching it? What initiatives have you taken? We are very much missing, Mr Amyras - we must admit that - from objectives that Europe has and we would like to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u329	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. It's a very substantial question, Mr. Famele. I will give you an answer to everything, provided I have a little tolerance from the Bureau. Anyway, it's the last time in the world. I think we have the opportunity to talk a little bit more. Over the last three decades, therefore, Thessaly has indeed been living the consequences of the irresponsible management of groundwater and surface water by over-exploiting, of course, uncontrolled drilling. This irrational management, therefore, affects above all the environment, disturbs the balance of water ecosystems and has, of course, adverse effects on the rural economy. The question is not whether the so-called one, as previously established, would be a diversion of Acheloos. Our point is, of course, that Thessalonike Campos is devastated. The aqueous balance is negative, the aqueous horizon degraded and burdened. So there is no need for rough solutions at a high cost. It needs serious work and documentation solutions that actually have a return in the near future, but also in the second year. Let's take a look at all the important steps. In the second revision of the SLIPS, we are in line with the obligation - I would say - of the scholars to include the factors of the climate crisis, as well as the extreme phenomena. In their methodology they are now obliged to take account of these two new factors. Of course, we also have the Hazardous Flood Management Plans. Open is the tender for their first review in order to prevent and address the dangers of flooding. We have, of course, both the National Operational Plan and then I will come to the first, second and third packages and tell you about these projects one to one. We also have the National Operational Plan for Drinking Water. It is elaborated with the partnership of the Ministries of Development, Health and Interior, so that each settlement has a sufficient quantity of water, but also an upgraded quality, that the water has good characteristics. Also, with a ministerial decision that I recently signed, we are committed for the first time to civil water management, and we are drawing up the annual water reports, so that we know all over Greece where what the pricing criteria are, what the quality characteristics are, what the stocks are, what the proportion and balance of water ecosystems are. Let's go see some of the first package. As you have said, the first package is aimed - and you have said - at reducing the consumption of irrigation water, reducing losses, rationalising irrigation methods and changing the irrigation model. So let's go. As far as irrigation is concerned, the Ministry of Infrastructure goes ahead with the projects. A contract was signed on 9 July with a deadline of thirty-one months. In Action 4.3.1 of the PAA, the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, titled “Enhancement Services”, nineteen projects of 22,633,000 have been included with the aim of reducing consumption by at least 40%. With regard to the rationalisation of the operation of existing irrigation networks of the Trikala Prefecture, the budget of EUR 6142,000 was approved on 9 September for its implementation. Immediately, a contract is signed in the next few days. Let's go to the second package. Let two remarks here. There's a mistake in the information you're referring to in your question. The planned benefit from the second package is 40 million cubic metres per year. It says so and the first revision of the MAPs. You've signed it, you've run it. Also all the projects that I will mention below were to start from the end of 2014. They didn't start. They're starting now. So let's go see what: Lake Carlas Water Transfer and Distribution. The project has been completed. The remaining accompanying projects with a budget of EUR 15 million are provided for in the international competition made by the Region of Thessaly. He had a final date a few days ago, September 20th of this year. The Sanitary Dam completed a cost-benefit study. With regard to the Letharian Dam, the implementation rate is over 80%. As far as the Nathaki and Kaklizorema dams are concerned, they are already implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food with PPPs. The Delion Dam is being studied by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. And now as far as the Gyro Dam and the Mavromatian Dam are concerned, the works have been completed on your day, Mr. Famele. But there's an important detail. They were not provided for in the revision of the TLTROs. The same applies to the Livadotop, Vineyards, Agiokampos, Valley, Saint Anargyros. They did not provide for the revision of the MAPs that took place when you were at the Ministry of the Environment. However, we have made progress in the construction of important projects which had not been planned. It is the Belma Dam, the Limnoxen Xrias, the Castrio and Glauki Reservoirs that have been completed. For the third package of measures and for the other questions, I will answer the second question because I have already reached six minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u331	We're too late anyway than you can see. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, as you have understood many of the projects you mentioned incidentally all are activated in September or even now. And there's a lot of all rights. To say: The estimate is that for a long time the operators have refused to implement the 2017 water basin management plans. Let's face that. This is because this story, the ghost of Acheloos, prevented the institutions - and there is political responsibility for it - from dealing with what Europe should have told us. We have done our duty and I believe that this has also been demonstrated by the Council of State multiplely and by European procedures. The question is, are the Government and New Democracy officials ready to continue what SYRIZA started? You didn't get a seat for Acheloos. You should take a seat and as a person you should take a seat. But what we started was clearly the way out of the area. And in that direction you must work now. That is why we are making parliamentary control. We see that irrigation works are integrated. Do you know why they hadn't joined them so far, Mr. Amyras? Because the European Union was simply a cult that we had not reviewed the CFP, and that is why the APA had closed down. They didn't include works. They were liberated after 2017 all of this. SYRIZA's government released them. We have not only escaped memorials and other sufferings of our country. Water management plans, flood management plans, waste management plans were made in the government of SYRIZA because they were not done in the previous years and the Europeans had taken out a red card. But now that we have overcome all this, the first question is: When will the second revision end? I would like a commitment to both flood risk management plans and water basin management plans. Because what you have not mentioned - I give it to you as information - is that they must be combined not only with the specifications - which you are doing and which you have, is compulsory - but also with the climate change adaptation plans that the regions should have presented and that should now be the option for the ESDP, for the MAGP and for the Recovery Fund. Don't play hard, I think we understand. The second question is, what about Acheloos? Mr Screkas as Minister has been in favour of the diversion and here in the House. It was an election reading. Many conferences were held to start the diversion again in 2019. I participated in such meetings, too. Mr Gerapetritis was then the coordinator of the debate, not of the decision. However, there is now a decision 2228/2020 that confirms the management planning that I have had and the price then sign or the responsibility, say it as you wish. Do you know what will happen to this issue on the government side? Because we saw that the Prime Minister finally admitted in his interview with the report and put end titles, as they say, in a story that delayed Thessaly under the responsibility of other parties, not SYRIZA - take it as a self-critic, we will accept it if you make self-criticism for Acheloos - because it says that this work of technical and constitutional nature is extremely difficult. We are simply saying: are we going to be in European regularity? Because it turns out in the management of the water of Thessaly, "We live in Europe" was SYRIZA, because those who fought against the European water basin management plan were not at SYRIZA. We are now giving you a chance. Since the design has matured, since all sects no longer exist, can we now enter the water management path? Because the issue of water scarcity, the negative balance - we all recognise it - is a crucial issue, but we must finally give solutions and we must all do so in this Chamber. I hope that I am understood in the context of the contribution to solving a problem which for responsibilities of other parties, the old two-partyism, has delayed Thessaly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u333	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the issue of Acheloos and the so-called diversion. That is the question of one million. Following the annulment by the Council of State of the decision approving the environmental conditions of the project, the study will be updated and the environmental impact study on the Mezzogiorno dam and the operation of PPC hydroelectric power plant to proceed with its implementation in accordance with the announcements of the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Environment. In the preparation of the second review of river basin management plans, which is already under way, the Government is committed to reviewing - and it is doing so - the partial transport of water from Acheloos - what we used to call the 'Acheloos diversion' - taking into account the decisions of the Council of State. This is the third or fourth time I have said this in Parliament. In order not to leave the rest unanswered, I will tell you a little bit about the third package of measures which are of great importance, because it concerns additional very important water rescuing projects. First of all, there is a mistake in your question. You say, according to the first revision of the SIPS, the benefit will be 255 million cubic metres per year, while it will be 125 million cubic. I'm just telling you so we can get the same evidence. Let's go see where the rescuing works are? The Gate barrier is also being prepared by the periphery. The Palaeoderli and Neochoritis dams are implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development by PPP. Good Water Reservoirs, Saint Antonio, Titanian dam despite the fact that they were not provided for in your review, are in implementation program with PPP. But you must recognize too. I recognized some works that have been done on your day. But you must also recognise that we are running too many projects that were not even in the review, were not foreseen. The Trikala reservoirs were not provided for in the SDBs nor even in their revision, since they were not provided for in the original plans. Finally, we proceed with works of artificial water enrichment in Killer, Halki, Platycabo and the lake tank at the Palaeomonist. On 15 June the Egnatia Street submitted a request for a solution as it could not respond due to technical and administrative changes and difficulties. We weren't real. The signature of several programming contracts was followed to fill the gap. Who are these? In the work of artificial enrichment in the area of Killer, Halki, Platycampos, Nice Larissa are parties - these were signed - the Region of Thessaly, our Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Municipality of Killer and the IPAAN. In the water pumping project from the River Penios for irrigation of the Valley of the Municipality of Larisa and Agios Anargyrons and the Municipality of Kranos of the Municipality of Killer are the district of Thessaly, our Ministry, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, the Municipality of Killer, the Municipality of Larissaias and the LAPAN. The projects of both programmes were recently approved on 20 September by the Minister for the Environment, Costas Skrekas, with EUR 1.692,000 already being secured by the Ministry of Development. We are at your disposal for anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Secretary, can we get this text?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u336	I don't have it with me now. Do you mean the text of the programming contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, may I have the floor to clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u338	There's no clarification now, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Famelle, whatever it is, I'll testify to you. I always testify what you ask me to do. That's something you know. And I'm doing it not because you're asking me, but because that's our responsibility and our role.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u340	Because she didn't answer in writing and because I think she's critical and serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u341	You mean you want to text what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u343	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u344	Can you give these to us, the list, the account of a written text in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u345	I'll send them to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u346	Good, thank you very much. That's what I wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, may I also say one last thing which does not concern this question, but does it matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u348	The way we've arrived now, here, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u349	Mr Famele, because you had a dialogue with Mr Tagaras on burning, and you even addressed me, so I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u350	To keep you informed, I said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u351	I know! But I'm aware! Let me tell you what the model I prefer and I love? The Danish model. Denmark was a pioneer in burning. Of course he left the combustion and went to zero waste production with reuse and recycling. Of course, as regards the burning you said, you are making a mistake when you say that Europe is not burning at all. The Germans...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u352	There's no strategy for burning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u353	That's all. Sure. Because Germany is hotter than it is recycled. And France has a hundred forty waste incineration plants, Mr President, for energy. I'm just describing the situation, the evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-27-S1-commons.u355	With the consent of the House at 22.51 p.m. the sitting on Wednesday, 29 September 2021, at 8 p.m., on the subject of work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
