ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The first communication is as follows: "To the President of the Greek Parliament Mr. Tasoula. With this document, I would like to inform you of my independence from the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, as internal, anti-democratic, anti-ethnic and autocratic behaviours do not allow me to carry out my parliamentary work, for which I have been elected, so that I can now freely and effectively represent and serve my fellow citizens. Amazingly, Constantina Adamou.’
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u2	And a second announcement. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 26.07.2021, a criminal case for the former Minister of Health Andreas Xanthos and former Deputy Minister of Health Paulo Polakis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles, and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "The upgrading of the school, the strengthening of educational and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 July 2021 to discuss the draft law in two or three meetings, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place in a natural presence by Members in twelve-member circles including speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the JRC, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mer25. The names of the speakers have already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the Office has drawn up the list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who wish to be put through a teleconferencing will speak as soon as the speakers have completed their courses in a natural presence. Addendums will not be accepted except for mutual changes. It is also noted that when the political leaders receive the floor, the limit of one hundred and twenty present Members will be strictly respected at the same time in the Chamber, representing their parliamentary groups as follows: sixty-four New Democracy, thirty-four SYRIZA, eight Change Movement, six CCEE, four Greek Solution, four Mera25. I should like to ask, at this point, that speaking time be strictly respected with one tolerance to the rapporteurs, because there are hundreds of twenty-one speakers registered. For this evening, I suggest we get by 00.00. Now, it may be 23.30 ́, it may be a little later, depending on how it will be inside the room the climate. It has been decided at the Conference of Presidents on the third day, Wednesday, to end the debate at around 19.00, in order to start the vote, especially if there is a request - which, I suppose, will be - a roll-call vote. Is there any objection to this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u3	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u4	Good. We can start with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mr Kotsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, the sixth draft law of the Ministry of Education entitled 'Enlargement of the school and strengthening of education and other provisions' is now introduced to plenary today. This is essentially a bar of consistency and credibility on the part of the Ministry of Education's leadership, which implements one of our election commitments. Because all that was described in the previous five bills made by the state, but also in today's bill, had been tabled with clarity and clarity both in our election programme and in our election announcements and received the great acceptance of the Greek people, rewarding the credibility and consistency of the Government of New Democracy. And as I said to the committee, if for something you can call us inconsistent, it is the fact that, six months ago, during the budget vote, we committed ourselves to five thousand two hundred fifty appointments and we are now bringing to Parliament eleven thousand seven hundred appointments of teachers this year. And it is true that today's bill conflicts two different philosophies, two different political worlds. On the one hand the world of consistency and credibility, and on the other, the world of inconsistencies and populism. And I say this with regard to populism, because I read with great surprise a post by former Prime Minister and Head of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, what does he say? I pledge that if - if you notice the word 'if...' - in the next period SYRIZA comes to the government, not only will the minimum import base be abolished, but also those students who have been unfairly cut will be able to deposit computers, maintaining this year's grades and going beyond the schools they deserve. The epitome and the koruna of populism! First of all, because he does not believe that it will be a government, 'if...'! Secondly, the Prime Minister has announced many within Parliament that the elections will take place after two years. What, in other words, are you recommending to this year's students potential students? Wait two years if you're going to become a government to join their schools of desire with this year's grades? Fruits hopes, seaweeds for silk ribbons you sell to the candidates and I would say that you are also fishing in bluish waters in your attempt to get a account against this process. Let me remind you here of something else as a sample and inconsistency, but also a populism. At a recent plenary session, the former Prime Minister accused the Minister, Mr. Kerameos. "Deliver" - says - "Mrs. Kerame with colleges". But is Mr. Tsipras ignoring that his own government, by signature Mr. Philly in 2016, opened the way to the appointment of teachers who studied in college at the public school? So soon we forget? So fast do we plunder? You have lost political virginity some time ago. Your political practice during your governance has collapsed, depreciated and weakened any political account of you. Because you remember very well what you were saying before the elections and what you did after the elections. In fact, with regard to this matter, what was the justification for Mr Friend's lips again? It was a Memorandum obligation, they were pushing us - it says - the Institutions. But were you not elected by slogan "with an article, with a law, will we abolish memorials and commitments?" and you are now using them as an alibi to justify what you do not believe, but a while ago you legislated? That's why I'm telling you it's a conflict between two different political worlds, the world of consistency and credibility, the world of inconsistency and populism. We will not follow you in this direction, we have our own way, we have our own vision, we are evaluated daily by society and society rewards our actions. I'll come to the bill as well. The draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the upgrading of school and the strengthening of teachers is another important step towards the overall upgrading of our country's primary and secondary education. Part of our election commitments to about 80% have only been carried out in two years, Minister, and good for you and congratulations! For some have not for many years caused them to do what they wanted or thought they could do. Our aim is to create an even better school that will ensure more and more adequate supplies for the present and future of our children, as it will also release the potential of teachers in a context of greater freedom of continued support and increased accountability. It is a bill that changes our country's educational map, it comes as a natural development of the Ministry of Education's legislative process, which, as I said before, has proved all this time that it can, has the courage, has the courage, has the boldness, has the political will to restructure, transform and improve all levels of education, so that our education can change in practice. We have proved, in spite of the unprecedented circumstances and challenges of the health crisis, that we are proposing the benefit and well-being of our children. We trust our teachers and provide them with the means and possibilities required by today's society. By respecting our election commitments - but, as I said, by showing a slight inconsistency in this regard - we are going further than five thousand two hundred fifty appointments that we had budgeted at the beginning of the year, we are going to the eleven thousand seventeen hundred appointments, thus showing our very great interest in the human resources that it serves in education. And because it was said to the committee that SYRIZA began this kind of procedure, yes, I really read in the interview at "XONI" that in 2016 Mr. Friends announced twenty thousand appointments from 2017 to 2020. Of course, as he explained to us again in committee, we didn't do it, he didn't make it. Once again, the memorials and the partners. I would like these two to be tabled in the Minutes to remain, as I said, as a monument of populism and inconsistency. They are Mr. Tsipras' statements and Mr. Friend's interview. [[At this point, the Member, George Kotsos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since last year, we have started and hired four thousand special-education teachers for the first time, and this year we have found the financial area to increase the appointments from five thousand to two hundred in the eleven thousand seven hundred. If anything, congratulations to the Minister, warmly congratulate our Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have decided that your opposition impotence, but also your exhaustive statements, will not prevent us from moving on to the reforms. Reforms that the educational community needs, reforms for which the Greek people and they trusted us and voted us. So these days you are trying to convey to the public that thousands of students will be left outside the universities because of the minimum import base. Three questions. Was it not a question for all of us and for you and our universities to have a minimum level of autonomy in taking their decisions? Didn't you and the whole political world say that it is not possible for universities to have no say? Are you aware that the minimum basis is defined by the universities by their decisions? We have also heard from various SYRIZA colleagues that twenty-five thousand, thirty thousand, forty thousand candidates will be left out. What's the reality? Nine thousand more candidates than last year because of their failure to catch the minimum import base. I ask: did the minimum import base not apply to your days, at least to special courses?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u6	No, ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u7	How not? To catch the tenth of someone to go to college, she didn't want to go to special classes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u8	Don't have a dialogue with colleagues, place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u9	I ask rhetorical questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u10	Yes, but my colleagues are answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u11	Obviously, you must address them. In special courses, there was no minimum import base in ten? Could anyone not have written nineteen or twenty, but in the English class - in this case about English literature - not to get ten and not to pass? Obviously. You hadn't abolished it. Now, because the average of the writings can escape over ten, which means that some students on average have written much more than others, isn't this the criterion that they will pass and others won't pass? Besides, pan-Hellenics are not a rating competition. It's competition between students in terms of rating. May one year in law, one has seventeen thousand sixteen thousand and the other one with eighteen thousand or eighteen thousand five hundred molecules will not pass. Depends on how students, potential students, have written. I remember when my daughter passed law with eighteen thousand three hundred molecules, she was one of the first and next year, with eighteen thousand three hundred and a half molecules equal to that passed in Komotini. Could anyone complain and say, "I did not spend the year in Thessaloniki or the Kapodistrian, because I planned last year that it was eighty-three thousand molecules, but this year they were up?" In addition, I would remind you that Greece is the first country in the European Union to students as a percentage of the population of around 9.17% according to data from EUROSTAT, 2018. In addition, note that about 40% of students do not graduate. Of course, Mr. Friends claimed to be in relation to those who are registered and eternal. So you agree with what the Minister has done to set a time limit for a student's life, n+2 or n+3. I'm glad you agree, I'm glad you admit it. So the draft law, which we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but the implementation of our election announcements approved by the Greek people with a strong 40% rate. Our interventions lead to a newly upgraded school operating as the most decisive social mobility lever. This draft law aims to create an even better school for our children, ensuring all the necessary supplies for the present and future. The liberation of our teachers by creating a framework for greater freedom of continued support and increased accountability. The introduction for the first time of an organized system of church education by upgrading the education level of the clergy always under the supervision of the state. We are strengthening the autonomy of school units. We are establishing a mechanism for evaluating the work of teachers as a mechanism for improving and strengthening their education structures as a key pillar in achieving the effective teaching support of an autonomous school. We move from the closed central education system to an autonomous and flexible school. Our teachers, after all, have shown that the challenges can be set and demonstrated during the pandemic when they admittedly had to implement teletexts and faced it and met this challenge on the best terms. Today's information and communication society is intensified by a new way of communicating the teacher with students that are not deprived of and is not based on a mere transfer of knowledge, but centralizes the interest of students and creates new stimuli. We, therefore, because we trust and recognise the everyday labour and the difficult struggle of teachers, want to be more free, more creative, liberated by attitudes of another era, for better education and teaching results. The reform of education structures has as its main aim the strengthening of teachers to strengthen their educational support. To this end, we are setting up staff posts with a purely pedagogical character, such as training supervisors at both regional and management level. They increase from five hundred forty to eight hundred secondary education advisors to be even closer to the teacher, even closer to the school, even closer to the students. Thousands of psychologists and social workers are founded, five hundred fifty per industry, in order to meet the needs of general and vocational education schools. Don't you think this process will make a positive contribution? The evaluation, to come to another crucial element, at central and local level is a common practice in 90% of European countries, is an essential complement to the introduction of a strong mechanism for feedback and quality assurance in education, while it is inextricably linked to training. In addition, a recent measurement of public opinion has shown that 70% of society is in agreement with the reforms and changes promoted by the Ministry of Education. In studying European country education systems, it is understood that evaluation in whatever way is an important part of decision-making and in improving the educational process. Greece is one of the few countries that does not evaluate its teachers. The evaluation process is self-evident, necessary in fact, and we want through it to value an individual collective effort through a proper design, a proper programming and thus its implementation. In addition, in the event of a positive assessment, teachers who can evolve into teaching staff are rewarded, while in the event of an unsatisfactory evaluation, only training and self-assurance of teachers are provided for in order to be able to provide better educational work, to be more effective and useful to the educational community, students and parents. At the same time, there is provision for evaluation of executives as an integral part of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u12	Mr. Comrade, please see the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u13	I see it, Mr President, and I will try to close it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u14	We said there would be tolerance, but we will not make a party leader's speech. Nobody! And you, Mr. Philly, you're reacting now, I'll see you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u15	I have the feeling that my colleagues are also advocating...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u16	The debate is not directed by colleagues. The President-in-Office is in charge. We said tolerance, but to some point. Here, in one or two minutes, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u17	We therefore take care of the autonomy of school units in trying to decentralise procedures, because according to OECD figures, approximately 80% of the decisions are judged at central level and not at decentralised level. We promote the multiple book as a sign of trust in teachers and education systems, as a sign of trust for those who keep books in an attempt to transform the current bibliocentric system into a cognitive system. I believe that all these procedures, ladies and gentlemen, help with the educational process, strengthen the work of the teacher, and it is certainly in the interest of our objective, which is our children, who are the future of this society. I want to go a little bit to church education where a number of issues are regulated as the last law regulating church education was in 2006. Secondary church education is part of general secondary education. The students of candidate clergymen are being created in order to upgrade the level and create a better culture in our clergymen and, at the same time, move on to strengthen higher church education by merging the four Highest Church Schools in two. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a government are convinced that Greek society rewards the minister who dares, who has the courage, who has the political will and does pioneering things in the education that our children shield in the demands of modern times. A thousand-printed findings of supposedly class options and objections from Opposition that do not improve anything, we not only do not touch on us, on the contrary strengthens us and creates an obligation to try even stronger, even more decisively. With a view, then, to 2033, as our Minister has said very well, we are implementing one by one of the changes that we have made in the run-up to the election, changes required by reason and season, to create the school of tomorrow today. So we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to join us, to join us in planning tomorrow's school, to shape tomorrow's society, otherwise you will remain committed to obsessed and idealism, and obviously with society very far away from you. Finally, Minister, I sincerely want to thank you for having trusted me with this bill. It is my honour to present it, considering that I, too, contribute as much as possible to creating a better education process in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u18	The bills are given by the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u19	Mr President, we all want the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u20	Don't worry. No rapporteur will be wronged. I said it all along. It is simply when you are not rapporteurs and you are just speakers that complain. So don't forget the roles. Mr Nikolaos Philis, the general rapporteur from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President, and in advance for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today another educational bill on the day after the anniversary of the restoration of democracy, an event that is crucial to the contribution of its youth and movements that they had put into their priorities the flagship demand 'Psomi - Education - Freedom'. What are we living today? A dramatic overthrow of the conquests of the post-government period. Just yesterday at the celebration of the anniversary of democracy we saw the appalling, canceling the award of Isona Apostolopoulou, who in his arms had survived, on his side had tired many refugeees. The far right has unfortunately won at this point. We also remember the heroic port of Kyriakos Papadopoulos, who had fought to rescue hundreds of refugees and refugeemen from the waves of the Aegean. Today, however, we are living a reversal, as the European Parliament report records criminal political responsibilities for push-backs in the Aegean Sea. Indeed - the report says - instead of being investigated, they are buried in drawers. We demand that this report be discussed in the Greek Parliament. Over twenty-five thousand refugees are locked in camps, away from school. These are elements of the Citizen's Counselor. We demand that all children go to school in September. We demand that a small Kurdish refugee should not be deported with autism, thanks to the efforts of his teachers, and an unaccompanied teenager from the Congo who has asked for political asylum. 'Psame - Education - Freedom', therefore, with a record of unemployment among young people, with nightmareous earnings, with insecure employment relationships. The government has decided today to raise the minimum wage by 52 minutes a day as a coup. We say this again: we are in front of an unprecedented attack on youth and education. They are threatened with overthrowing of post-population conquests. This is evidenced by the successive bills brought by the government for education, the bills with which they enter post-graduate school in order to get children out of education and to be violently directed to early training and unpaid work of minors in the 1st high school with the bank of subjects, in order to reduce the number of children who end high school and thus also the number of children who claim to continue in universities, the introductory examinations with the minimum import base only calculated this year will "cut off" twenty thousand more people than those who did not enter last year. These options are intended to shrink public school and direct thousands of 15-year-olds to uninsured work of minors, thousands of eighteen-year-olds in private colleges, which you have rushed to make professionally equivalent to public universities. In many meetings of the House's Committee on Morphic Affairs I responded to the Government's claim that my own government recognised the professional equivalence of colleges and accepted their degrees in competitions. I said that this was done at the government of Samara, with the first signature of Minister Arvanitopoulos, that we had fought and lost in the first half of the year in the negotiation with the Troika, and we were forced to make a compromise with this provision, with a commitment, but that this provision will work to a very small number and will only concern the recruitment of alternates and will be abolished when we leave the memorandum and abolished it. There was no competition for appointment to the public under this provision. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why the Minister is now coming and is bringing the order back, because we have abolished it, so that no permanent appointments can be made with this provision. I will not respond all the time to the persistent propaganda of the government, but because it personally upset me, which is why I mentioned. We listen to propaganda and not any arguments from the government, propaganda which devaluates public education, slanders teachers and discredits universities as a man of lawlessness and violence, propaganda that, for the great unemployment of young people, it is the responsibility of the education of children rather than the bankrupt development model that is your own work, the people of New Democracy, propaganda, that the education of young people is a loss and not a chapter for society, propaganda that considers inequalities - how did Mr Mitsotakis say so? - natural phenomenon. We're told by government officials that our country has more students, but by what means? According to the official figures of the European Union, Greece is in line with the European averages. At the age of 25 to 34, 43.7% of this population in our country are university graduates compared with 40.1% of the average in Europe. The Commission has also proposed by 2030 that this percentage be raised to at least 50%. The European Council decided in the first phase to raise this figure to 45%. I am presenting for the Minutes of this House the communication from the Commission and the communication from the European Council. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why does Europe want more and more citizens with university supplies? Because it wants a high level of technology that meets the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution and also climate change, a growth that jobs will produce added value, well paid and with social safeguards. On the opposite side of Europe's objectives, the government promotes degraded growth - tourism, gambling and casino - which meets the interests of the few and not many at the expense of the environment, at the expense of labour, at the expense of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, ultimately at the expense of social well-being. That's why the government is talking about caging students at universities, but they're being locked up if they go to private colleges of government sponsors. In the "population" of government make news is the ones according to which thousands of children entered universities with white glue, with 1 or 2. Dare to deposit official evidence of the Ministry of Education from 2010 onwards. We challenge you. You're lying. With a white glue alone, they'll enter colleges because there's simply no introductory exams. We remind you that the basis of the "dec" for admission to universities had been passed on to the government of Karamanlis in 2006 was abolished in the government of Papandreou in 2010 with Minister of Ms Diamantopoulou and was not restored by the Government of Samaras. The SYRIZA Government took advantage of this arrangement because it met the trend of young people for higher education and the objectives of the European Union for 40% of graduates aged 24 to 34 in 2020. How would that be taken if we did not increase the number of children entering the university? We've taken a number of measures so that high school can have an educational role and can't be replaced by schools. We reformed the third grade and established the free choice sections, the so-called green sections, which the government quickly abolished. We have limited school leakage to zeal for Europe, and to graduation from universities, despite government falsifications, Greece is moving on the European average. In fact, it has the second best service in the OECD countries in terms of abandoning study at the ages of 18 to 24, with only 4.2%, as the Bank of Greece says in a report. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today turns education forty years back. It is no coincidence that the only social actors who supported it were the private schools owners, i.e. the government only legislates for the public school with the instructions of the school directors. The bill is based on the falsified three-fold autonomy - evaluation - training. Autonomous. We do have a centralised educational system as a result of a centralised state. It needs decentralisation, but with democracy, not arbitrary. The Central State must fulfil its three obligations. The first is to provide adequate funding for education. This in the years of the memorials retreated dramatically. It was strengthened as only on the SYRIZA government again. In the new medium-term adopted the trend towards public funding is falling when compared with the projected GDP growth. We urgently need 4.5% of GDP for education, otherwise the school will be further degraded. The second obligation of the State is to deal with subsecution, the need for a regular programme of thousands of teachers. The government has announced two years' delay in announcing appointments. And that's all right. But the SYRIZA government's efforts had taken precedence. Outside the memorials we had achieved the rule that one should leave and one to be hired to the public, when the New Democracy was asking to leave five for one to be hired. If this New Democracy principle were to be applied today, only three thousand teachers would be appointed. So let go of everything you're saying, that's what you're saying, that's what you're saying about teachers. Three thousand teachers were appointed by your own measures and weights. The SYRIZA government had voted for the way in which the New Democracy had then voted against and now retained. Admir, as you say, a consequence of election perceptions and announcements. We had entered in the 2019 budget the money for the tender for the special treatment we had given, and by decision of the Ministerial Council we committed money for the 2020 budget and the competition to the greatest of the general education we could not do because of the elections. We said the New Democracy was two years behind. At least don't say what he's saying and let him stay out of it. The third obligation of the State is to monitor the functioning and fulfilment of the objectives set by the Constitution itself for both public and private education. In other words, modern curricula and teaching methods, which first of all means confidence in the teacher who must be constantly trained. This ensures quality and equality in education. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no decentralisation in the bill. The school club is disfellowshipped and we go back to the regime before 1981. I mean it. In the first four years of PASOK it became a serious incision to secondary education that we are discussing. And this incision is slowly undermining and is now completely overturned. An intermediate hierarchical mechanism based on party and clientele relations is being established. The Minister will nominate the members of the Selection Board from which, for the first time after a hundred years, the elected representatives of teachers are excluded. School must be democratic for it autonomous. This means trusting the club of teachers of confidence and tasks that form a climate of essential educational function that makes the school a primary core of the community. Substantial autonomy is not compatible with school authoritarianism with the manager, the vertical control and surveillance mechanism, nor with the return of inspection. In fact, the principal becomes a school master, giving himself the responsibilities assigned to his court and making an assessor even though he will not have these competences to assess the teaching competence of each teacher. As far as the definition of Vice-Presidents is concerned, we have all seen the opposition to the unconstitutionalism of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. I hope that you will take it into account in some amendments. Nor, of course, is it a sign of autonomy the appointment of the new school board by omission of the parents and pupils' teachers' association and by overrepresentation of local government, where the three representatives of the school are appointed by the mayor. Another reversal of a democratic conquest of popular participation achieved by the movements of teachers, parents and children, such as the subject I mentioned earlier, the democratic operation of the school, which was imposed by law during the PASOK period. SYRIZA had established the regional educational planning centres, the P.C.S. in parallel with the self-assessment of schools, i.e. in the form of collective planning and evaluation of teaching work by the school club. Teachers meet on the first day, they say what school problems, bowling, school leak and other issues are. They meet regularly in time and have an estimate of how to deal with these problems for the operation of the school. We have transferred the responsibility for supporting the educational community from one person to a multidisciplinary group that operates as a community of knowledge and skills. We were interested in strengthening at the same time the educational work and the ability of teachers to deal with the growing psychosocial problems of young people who at the present time have become central to the pandemic. I give you an account of the work of the MAGPs. Even training for distance learning made this time of the pandemic we are talking about. You are abrogating, Minister, a successful institution, professedly in general without any evaluation. It's also a sign of how you're politicizing education. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Training is necessary for all teachers at regular intervals and with permission from educational tasks. The aim of training must be to improve education. You use it as an educational stigma tool. According to the bill, only teachers evaluated negatively will be trained. All the others on a more general assessment of the HR do not exist in the draft law. We left behind a strong document on the subject of training, on the subject of new curricula. Something you're going to get from there, but I repeat it's not included in the bill. This is just punishment. This is for you training. Evaluation. Adopt a valuable evaluation model. I ask: will you, with fear, threats even for dismissal, impose evaluation and training? You say that the external evaluation model of teachers is being applied throughout Europe. That's not true. Nor is it applied everywhere, nor is it the same. In Finland, for example, which is renowned for its best educational practices internationally, there is no individual assessment of teachers nor is there an internal hierarchical evaluation provided by the director. He must guide but not evaluate. The annual discussion between an instructor and a feedback manager shall be conducted. For the mentor. The newly appointed teacher can be helped by an experienced colleague. This requires a relationship of trust between them so that the newly appointed person can speak openly about his problems. How will this happen when the mentor is appointed again by the school director to judge whether the newly appointed person is permanent? What security in the relationship can there be? What truthfulness? Economic autonomy. The bill establishes the responsibility of the school director to accept sponsorships and to allow private actors in the course. What contribution is that? Are you preparing for the rest of the training to bring the 20% reduction in funding that you have instituted in the universities? Of course, other resources will be able to find schools in favoured social areas and others in poor and remote communities. Model and infrastructure schools and schools for ghetto and marginalized pupils and teachers. From the neighborhood's democratic school at the market school. The autonomy you propose in the bill will lead to the creation of many high-speed schools. What's the point of publishing the data per school from pan-Hellenic competitions in the F' grade and the 3' high school? This promotes competition and ultimately stigmatisation of schools, as we know from the international teaching literature studied by the thirteenth schools of the 1980s. And now for the notion of pedagogical autonomy and the multiple book. Undoubtedly, we must move away from the status of a single book. But on what terms? The bill proposes that every school can decide a different book from a list published by the ILP. I mean, in practice again, a book. And yet there is a proposal that we need a book guide, another type of book and school libraries at every school and a careful reference to digital media. Undoubtedly, we need multiple, multimedia, educational material in all courses without leading to the invasion of publishing oligopolis at school. Because this road opens with your proposal. And, of course, such a conception of educational autonomy requires support for continuing education, so that through a differentiated teaching, the critical knowledge of children is strengthened. I would like to stress this: the critical knowledge of children. That's what's missing from school today. This, of course, presupposes reading the work of teachers and not intimidating them. The difference of democratic from authoritarian education is the relationship between diversity and equality. In the governmental perception of autonomy that leads to many classes of schools, the differentiation of material methods and divisions deepens the existing inequality, the logic of education autonomy as a democratic term in that logic. On the contrary, differentiation comes in compensatory terms to ensure famous equality of opportunity, to ensure access to opportunities, to include all pupils and pupils. That is why we are talking about a school of quality and equality and not about competition. But to continue with autonomy. What does the Ministry's ability to amend or abolish sections without the Senate's opinion? Because in the bill there is the most important thing for universities Article 185. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This article provides that for the adoption of the Presidential Decree establishing, merging, partitioning, renamed, repealing and changing SGEI headquarters, SGEI annexes are not required, no agreement is required for the convening of that university. It is stated that a simple opinion is required. Simple opinion is not binding on the Ministry's decisions. Therefore, the Government of New Democracy will be able to abolish, merge, rename what it wants, without being decisively bound by the decisions of the Chambers. Another unconstitutionalism highlighted by the Parliament's Scientific Service in its report on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill has been sealed by the agony of thousands of children and families in the face of the slaughter of importers in the UI. Within a few days, sixty thousand people online are calling for the resignation of the Minister of Education. Evidently Mrs Kerameou implements a central government policy. The request to resign figures for children angers against government education policy, as has happened in other historical times. Youth reactions and mobility in the field of education can prove to be a catastrophic political development, as we are now coming out of fear of pandemic and awareness of the major problems create justified rage, especially among young people. So do not the government rest on the indigestible demographic impressions. Not to underestimate and try to humiliate the teacher, as three times he attempted it during the pandemic, with the relentless disapproval of 90% of teachers. Don’t think he can fool families by golding the pill of the massacre at the EIO with the parallel, as he calls it, a route to the IEK. Obviously, the state also has to reconstruct public IEK, which has not yet been done, because private individuals were being helped by the IEK. But whatever kids want to get into college, they can do it without cutters. To be able to finish PSA and apprenticeship, which is the work of the SYRIZA government and awarded by the Commission. Our government's task was to legislate on two-year-old pre-school education. It was a request for many decades and the New Democracy did not vote for it. On SYRIZA it was implemented in two hundred ninety - two municipalities in just one year. There's another forty left. Five of them were deferred. Among them, the Municipality of Athens, which implements it with great delay, carelessness and authoritarianism. We also formed the new type of full-time primary school and kindergarten, which the New Democracy had condemned and Mr Mitsotakis personally. Luckily, he's still not dismantled. Thank you, Mr President, for the time. I'll be done. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill debate is taking place, while for two years schools and universities have been closed, and our country has managed the negative record to have the largest space of closed schools, according to UNESCO. Congratulations, Minister! In September, schools and universities with health insurance must be opened, and that is why we must all fight together for universal vaccination to proceed, with persuasive measures and threats to suspend rights, with vaccination centres at each university and a group of schools. In order to open up the school, however, it needs other conditions, such as the timely recruitment of the necessary educational potential, the restructuring and reduction of material, the abolition of the theme bank and the emphasis on teaching, not the school's examination centre. Finally, a little mention of the subjects of church education. We believe that secondary church education should be abolished. It's a nursery of a strange foundation for young children. It serves customer relations with certain Metropolitans. We should not have continuation of secondary ecclesiastical education. After all, it has largely retreated, with a previous decision by the previous governments, other governments, with the exception of Rizario, which has a legacy and has a level of study, I would say zealous for many schools, where there should be a direction based on the Rizaris legacy. Highest ecclesiastical academies. We know how they were founded. This does not mean that they must be abolished by'short death'. It is obvious that they cannot remain to the present day. It is obvious that they must be integrated, in our view, through a design in what we call the'single higher education area'. We do not need SWIS, as the students of candidate clergy are called, to shorten the work of training young clergymen. We do not need a low level of education under despotocracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u22	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u23	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. We need education, which will be a university level and which will be undertaken by these academies as parts or programmes of the theological academies. So don't go to quick, hasty decisions. I would like to present to the House - I have asked for it, but it has not been possible during the procedure of the Committee on Formatic Affairs - the evidence I have: a Memorandum of Meeting of the Minister of Education, Mr Kerameos, with the Highest Church Academies. Done at 25-2-2020. None of what has been said there is currently the law. On the contrary, overthrow is complete. I am sorry, but so we do not train, mocking the interested, when these interested ones even had confidence in you, the inspired right, on the right of the Lord. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u24	I know, Mr. Philly, that two hundred and twenty articles are hard to get out in 15 minutes of experience. That is why I said that the rapporteurs and the speakers would have a relative tolerance. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, special speaker of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's education policy in the two years of its implementation has caused many frictions in the educational community, such as the equalisation of college diplomas with university degrees and polytechnics, with the absence of protective measures to ensure safe physical operation of schools and universities, as well as the continuation of the SYRIZA Government, I would say, by means of a reduction in vocational education. They are choices, ladies and gentlemen, which revert to basic public education. However, there is also no comprehensive national education policy that could be shaped through the ESS, which reminds me that the SYRIZA - ANEL government has been abolished. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we do not see in this bill an integrated plan for the return of pupils and teachers to schools in the middle of the new pandemic that comes. Here it should also be stressed that if the next school year is like the two previous years, there will be a serious educational and pedagogical deficit of pupils, both secondary and primary. And that should actually make us all wonder about the measures which must be taken in the light of the new pandemic that is coming. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill brings great changes in education administration, evaluation, school unit, church education. From the outset we stressed the issues arising from the implementation of the evaluation in a punishable way, from the composition of the school board, from the establishment of the school selection school of school directors, from not counting the teaching service on the supportive institutions of education, such as school advisors and innovative actions. These, Minister, for all of us in the Change Movement at PASOK, are red lines. It is not possible, Minister, for those who have been punished by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with Law 4547/18 and who have proved themselves to have offered education, today instead of justifiable them, to be punished for the second time. School advisors, teachers of environmental education centres, health care providers, cultural leaders undergo a second flagrant injustice and a complete natural overthrow of their professional expectations, and this, of course, after thirty-six years. Minister, more specifically the arrangements for education structures and, in particular, the selection of executives are purely bureaucratic. They undergo pedagogical function and supervision in the administration. It is a regulation that I asked you in committee and I expected you to accept. You didn't. We asked you to count as a teaching service for the teachers I referred to. That's fair and that's justice. You are, however, talking, Minister, about decentralisation, of course, in the structures of education. However, what do we see? No decentralisation, especially in regional administrations. Decentralisation would provide flexibility, efficiency and better management of staff and resources. You blame the Greek education system as a centrality compared to European systems. And you, Minister, with this bill, make it more central. Ladies and gentlemen, the educational policy of PASOK governments was developed in areas such as supervision, guidance, training and end of evaluation. So for us the hierarchy was: supervision, guidance, training and finally, as I said, evaluation. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, ladies and gentlemen, has broken down the structure of supervision, abolishing school advisors and introducing a system I would call loose supervision. However, I have heard of merit. Let me remind my dear SYRIZA colleagues that at SYRIZA - ANEL here in the same Chamber and in a quantification with Mr. Friends I mentioned about the sovereignty: “Bourth of the regional directors throughout Greece. The twelve SYRIZA and an ANLL" Take your conclusions! However, Minister, the bill does not correct these mistakes so that training directors are made stronger. So, Minister, do you know what you're doing? You're resurrecting the role of inspector. That's what you're doing. And keep that. That's the point. The school advisors are renamed as training advisers and are subject to the training director rather than to the regional training director that they should have. So, Minister, you know what he's doing? It undermines the concept of evaluation, and I am of course surprised by their rename. We suggested that school advisors should be named as school advisors. That's what they need. And that's why? Because they will be recognized both in their course and in the institution's offering. You didn't answer, Minister. I asked you in principle and in the articles and in the second reading. And I come to the selection of training officials. First of all, the criteria of Law 3848/2010, as well as the terms of the structured interview, are restored, and this, of course, by a question bank. Are regulations by the PASOK governments, regulations that serve what? They serve objectivity, ladies and gentlemen, and of course transparency. We agree. However, the moleculosis, Minister, of the head of our school unit, concerns, with one and a half units per year being excessive, since in one single term the sum of molecules are covered when, of course, two terms of law were necessary. Here, Minister, I suggest you - and today - to provide for the mobilisation of the administrative experience of teachers, elected representatives who are responsible for the first and second grades of Government. However, Minister, the arrangement for participation in the boards of selecting school directors with two teachers with 15 years of experience, which are essentially 15 years of experience, is unacceptable and I would urge you to remove it from the bill. This raises concerns about the choice of executives while the elected representatives are being expelled by the councils. That's what you're doing. You were told by your trade unionists too. Remove it. What are you doing? You take out Law 1566/1985. Let me remind you here, law 1566 is a law that, over time, is the charter of education. And let that be held. However, it is not possible, Minister, that the two teachers who participate in the board of selecting school managers are less qualified than those who judge them. We proposed that the two teachers should have one term, either as training directors, head offices, school directors. Otherwise, increase the number of school advisors to three, who of course also have the power to assess school managers. Furthermore, Minister, it is problematic to define a regional quality supervisor with superpowers, which will of course control both primary and secondary, which, of course, is inappropriate. The Change Movement - PASOK proposed a head for each level of education, naturally based on the existing legislation with Law 4547/2018 and, of course, with the practice. Now as far as training for teachers is concerned, I would remind you that the EIP does not have a training infrastructure. In fact, with Law 4547/2018 on the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL the thirteen PECs, i.e. the thirteen regional training centres, were abolished. You, as an opposition, along with me, Minister, remind you of it at the time. In fact today we have a deja vu. So, what are you doing? But you said as an opposition, but you say as a government. Minister, there are teachers attending four-and-a-half-hour seminars and, of course, this in special education. With Law 4589/2019 these seminars reminded you that they stopped retrospectively counting and mobilizing. What do you say? So far nothing. Tie it up! With regard to evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, evaluation in education is for us the PASOK, the Change Movement, a key political position and a targeting. For us, evaluation does not stop at teachers, but rather at the evaluation of structures, programmes and resources. For us, evaluation strengthens the quality of the education provided. We therefore want the evaluation to be supportive, feedback, educational, with no punishment against the teacher. However, the evaluation as you bring it, Minister, is a description of the teachers and arithmetic for the executives. However, the anonymous assessment of the heads of government is maintained, which has been judged to be unconstitutional in the JCC. This was essentially another proposal from the SYRIZA - ANEL which was judged in the course of an anti-constitutional process. So the evaluation, Minister, must be called for both judges and judges. Ladies and gentlemen, every modern school unit in order to be able to carry out its work needs both the director and the school club, with clear competences and cooperation between them. The bill introduces arrangements which do not guarantee the autonomy of the school unit - I stressed it, Minister - but undermines collectiveity, since the competences of the school club are now passed on to the director. In other words, a superpowered director and a school club of teachers downgraded. At the same time, I would say that the school board actually passes control over the municipality, which defines the majority. In this context, teachers will be a minority and their roles are limited. Let me remind you that the SYRIZA - ANEL government overturned the public school data and changed as you wish the programme without a plan. And today your bill does not change, Minister, the timetables and does not restore the full-day RDP programme. That is what I told you in committee. You should have basically accepted our proposal. In addition, there are no groupings in high school and there is no provision for IT and foreign language certification. As for the skill workshops published by the Ministry, these are not other than the flexible zone programmes, i.e. interactive health education programmes, environmental education, cultural activities, social life currently in schools. And of course they are our policies, PASOK policies. They were programmes based on the three main pillars of PASOK education policy. And I remind you: Knowledge, skills development and positive attitude development. The current leadership of the Ministry of Education, Minister, recognizes the positive sign of these policies, even if they are changed by the name, as naturally recognised institutions that had previously been provided for by Law.3848/2010 and today many of them are reinstated, such as the institution of " mentor" that we expect to see how it works in practice or the "multiple book" that you also restore without naturally adapting to the modern educational data of the digital age, 5G, the digital school, where the book in this matter will be helpful. Finally, in Article 104, where you are talking about a universal examination of students from the Faculty and High School, we disagree, Minister. It does not offer quality improvement in the educational system. On the contrary, we would say that it intensifies competition and we told you and stressed what PASOK said, the Change Movement: Dismissal of a high school with the simultaneous certification of a foreign language and computer is what the student who finishes high school needs today. Ladies and gentlemen, on the issues of church education and the provisions of the bill, church schools are settled and matched, which currently operate in the form of model schools. Applicant Clinics Schools will operate as a postgraduate church education, with a level V certification. There is also provision for the merger of the Highest Church Academy of Thessaloniki and the Academy of Vellas Ioanninas with the Academy of Athens and Crete. We heard at the hearing of the institutions that the Church of Greece is in line with these arrangements. However, Minister, I would say that the long historical offer of the Academy of Vellas Ioannina imposes its stay and preservation. You need to see it again. However, here I would like to point out that while the Church of Greece and the Church of Crete are represented at the Supervisory Board of Church Education with two members, there is no representation of Mount Athos. The decisions of the Council, however, cannot be taken in absentia, Minister of State, of Mount Athos, especially in matters directly relating to the Athoniad School, which are the responsibility of the Holy Community and the Holy Monasteries. We propose to the Council that two persons of the Holy Community, and indeed by a decisive vote, should be present. Moreover, it should be stressed that Mount Athos has a special status and the charter is recognised by Article 155 of the Constitution. I'm coming to tertiary education. An important arrangement for holding elections at universities by electronic means. Furthermore, with regard to NRAA, it must be shielded with resources and staff rather than constantly operating with seconded persons. Minister, the decisions on higher education cannot be based on political decisions as appropriate, nor of course can they be taken by two measures and two weights. They must be solid, objective, time-consuming, with respect for the opinion of the Independent IPTO Authority until 2019, NSAE today, as well as with respect to universities, in consultation with local societies. Here I would say that in 2019, a certified department with eighteen ICP members, a thousand graduates, five hundred students, and indeed, certified by the IPP in January 2019, was abolished on a minimum basis - and I address you, SYRIZA colleagues - where on one night Mr Gavroglou abolished it. With a political decision this department was abolished, by political decision, when the PPP, the then independent authority, what had it done? He had certified it by 2024. And not only did he have the eighteen LAG members and so on, but he also had professional rights that for all the departments were the requested and, of course, a masters' program and a PhD in progress. And yet, what did Mr. Gabroglou do? He abolished it. I'm coming to the minimum import base. Minister, the introduction of the minimum import base leads to thousands of students, as I have told you in the debate on articles outside universities. It is an institution that has indeed been established, I would say, within the pandemic. The paradoxes. We see children gathering even higher school molecules than they want and not entering their choice because of the cutter, the minimum import base. We proposed that you suspend the minimum import base for at least the school this year and, by extension, the department. In the air and transcripts. In particular, how will one request a transfer student to a school not included in his computer because of the minimum import base? You have to give it a solution. And since we are talking about student needs, I should like to refer, Minister, to an issue that we have raised with you, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, through parliamentary control. It is about children who have lost either one or both of their parents from COVID and have to continue their studies, that is to say, to take care of their livelihoods. For these children, we have proposed to you the grant of an annual grant equal to that of the institution, and I would say, of course, of course, of course, of course, in line with what was envisaged, namely, that there was a provision for firefighting in the Eye or for earthquakes in Western Greece. So the state, ladies and gentlemen, is a welfare state and rewards the best. In the face of my neighbor, then, Dimitris Karakostas, who lost both his parents from a coronary, we reward all the children who experienced the losses from the pandemic. That is why we have tabled an amendment to it and I believe that all Parliament's wings are in agreement. We're not talking about financial support as a begging. We are talking about institutionalized, exceptionally a scholarship, and we must, Minister, do so. Ladies and gentlemen, our position on appointments is stable: PPP, past service, scientific qualifications, social criteria. I close my position with the amendments tabled by the Change Movement. We ask and insist on restoring injustice for the undetermined successors of the 2008 SAAP competition. Will someone say: 2008? We, in PASOK, are reminded and, of course, preferably today that we are given this opportunity and this injustice and we are asking you for a solution. They are teachers who were omitted from the appointments, and their colleagues were appointed with a lower score. We also tabled an amendment to guarantee the professional rights of graduates of the Icaron School. We have also tabled an amendment to harmonise the legislation on the selection of Quaestors in S.H.I.E.E.L.D. Finally, we tabled an amendment concerning the establishment of a foreignlanguage branch at the Patriarchal High Ecclesiastes Academy of Crete. In fact, I would say that, with this establishment of the foreign language section, this Academy will be addressed both in the Balkans and in Europe. We invite you, Minister, to accept them. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the bill, for all the above reasons I have mentioned - and we are radically opposed to the core of the bill - we are, in principle, voting against and say 'no'. We are, however, voting on the articles on the evaluation and church education and on the arrangements on staff tours, as foreseen in No.3848/2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u26	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you in advance for the tolerance to a very large bill, which cannot be twisted by fifteen minutes for a rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, two school years have already elapsed with schools opening up pupils and families to be trained with education and five weeks as soon as they are left until the start of the new school year in September. So one would expect that what you will deal with there in the government would be to try to deal with the major problems created by the long-term closure of schools, to take steps to substantially cover matter, to fill out the learning gaps that have accumulated in children, and to address the socio-social problems caused by pandemic. One would expect a government finally to ensure the presence of all the necessary teachers in their schools on 1 September, as well as every 1 September from now on. That is why it is imperative that all thousands of contracted teachers be permanently permanentd. One would also expect you to provide there, in the government, for what preventive measures are needed, with the necessary cleaners, permanent, in all schools, with massive repeated tests at every school, but not with the well-known self-tests, with the necessary means of transport for the safe movement of students and, of course, with the essentials, scientific information on vaccination, in order to shield education and not to close schools again next year. And yet you there in the government about others take care of you and you are treading. Instead of all that necessary, what are you doing? You are now bringing a heavy bill in the summer with hundreds of articles, but not on these urgent needs, but on autonomy, it says, the schools and the evaluation, that is, the suffocating control of teachers. You are cut off by the multi-purpose sign of the upgrade of education and by the empowerment of teachers, of course, you are caught by something stunned polls of your friendly media and you are aware that you are done. In fact, a little more and you want to tell us that for your bill, parents, students and teachers are almost out there celebrating. But if, as you say, your bill upgrades education, then why do you vote in the mosquitoes in the summer and don't wait until September, which opens the schools to enjoy the celebrations? So leave these, because you know too well that bills like today's all they do is put other paradoxical obstacles, class obstacles to the new children, their talents, their dreams. And do you know mostly which children? To the children of the people's families, the toilers. Basically this educational bill continues in schools that it did the recent Hatzidakis monstrosity at work. First of all, you targeted what is left of parental employment rights, and now you are targeting the cultural rights of their children. Someone here might well wonder, but is it too much what the JRC says? The answer gives the bill itself. So if this is voted on, then in September coming students, teachers and parents will find themselves in front of a different school. Today's poor, boneless school with its fragmentary, unscientific knowledge and unacceptable school books, this competitive school, stressful, psychotrophic for our children with the bill changes towards the worst, is transformed into something even more reactionary. As close to what they have voted together in previous years New Democracy and SYRIZA and are in force with today's bill, a deep reactionary incision to the very core of education, to what the students will learn, to what and how the teacher teaches and to what work environment. So this school is baptized autonomously and decentralized, and according to articles 98 and 99 this school for the first time in our country, and with the bogeyman of the law he will be able to market his infrastructure and have other sources of funding beyond the state. So we may see the school courtyards turned into parking at the hour and the school buildings can be made available to promote various commercial products. At this school officially now they're going to smuggle scholarships, those who want, you know, our schools and our children decor for their business and tools for their business and other activities. In this autonomous school its doors will be wide open to travel within it from private and NGO to business. Every walnut, that is to say, to run programs, to organize activities, to make children their propaganda based on their own interests and pursuits. In this autonomous school, for example, the American Embassy will be able to travel in comfort with Fulbright Foundation programs to overthrow the blood-blowed American imperialism. In this autonomous school he will be able to do the teacher to our children the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs with his educational program "Kingdoms" to teach our children - you know what? - the history, he says, of occupation in Greece, as the German Government says. They will also be able to enter colossals, such as 'COSCO', serving ready school programs. They will be able to smuggle whatever NGOs they want, and let them be misfamiliar. But, all and all, there will be school doors closed by resistance organizations, unions and workers' organizations and radical women's organisations. Well, what do you think there in the government? That parents don't care about who's talking about and what they say to their children? At the same time, of course, with the pretext of autonomy, the state is prosecuting its own responsibility to finance these schools exclusively. State budgets are always very little, usually not enough for basic and necessary, and for whatever reason the responsibility is now transferred to the school itself. What do you think? Aren't the competition between schools to find sponsors? Are they not to be divided into categories, and is that why schools? And what about schools in poor and degraded areas? They're gonna stay back, they're gonna be led to the shutdown? Tell us. Is it possible for our children's schools to be on the beggar so that they can function instantly? Is it possible for parents to keep asking for money for each other? So, what kind of taxes are they paying them? 590 euros, he says, gave a school at 109th Primary School in Patriots to get you know what? A TV and a computer. Well, you don't even want to give this to school and talk to us about upgrading education? But this is not the end of the school's autonomy. Every school as autonomous will have its own content, its own books, its own programs. He can, you say, free to choose the books he wants for his students. And how will he choose these? But based on the educational level of the children of his class. And that level, what do you say, is irrelevant to the social origin and class position of children? But that's not freedom. This is an even greater commitment, even greater dependence on the good of education on the social inequalities that exist in any case among the students, the good of the education which we say should be provided equally to everyone. For the same class, then, there will be a variety of school books differently as to their difficulty, extent, depth of content, there will be multi-level, multi-speed, school books of low, moderate and high degree difficulty, which will be addressed to students and schools of corresponding courses. So not all children will learn the same letters, but otherwise. That'll be the multiple book. That is what you are defending, Mr Philly, and that is what you did a moment ago in this House. This multiple book was tried for a while earlier on Arseni and certainly failed completely and was withdrawn. So autonomy comes and drives out the single character that school knowledge must have. In the meantime, large publishing houses are about to fall into the large pie of European funds by pulling out a bunch of such differentiated books. Look, because you keep boasting us for modern ones, we ask you: Truth, how modern is a school separating children from the first - yet first grades of primary school to what will they learn? Other letters in St. Barbara and others in Psychics and Kifisia? So, what's for the end of all this nice little story about a multiple book? The 'dracon' of the separation and categorisation of schools and pupils. It would be wrong, however, to think that we are defending these school books that are now in existence, that lie, that pervert, and with recipes and party invitations, they go to teach our children the Greek language. We first of all want these books to change. We want wealth of sources, of electronic means, but they will develop love in knowledge, they will teach that the truth is objective - and not everyone will build it, as your own pedagogical truth says, and then wonder very quickly about the irrationality of vaccinations - and that this objective scientific truth can and must conquer every human to interpret, but also to change the world. Only we want all these for all the children without exception and regardless of their class origin. That is why we want a school that will give it all to everyone, not just to a few, and to the books of the single, scientific, modern, well-written. In your own school, however, as far as it goes, you replace it with skills and fragmentary information. So the necessary, let's say, sexual education at school is introduced as a mere skill instead of being treated as a scientific school knowledge, integrated into the curriculum of the entire education course. What criticism can SYRIZA now make in all of this? We saw it a while ago. How to speak of the skills they take in schools at the expense of courses, such as Sociology, Sensitive Education, Physical Education? Nor can it nor will it, since it is SYRIZA who opened this road with the so-called 'thematic week'. And what can he say and what can he say about the autonomy of schools, this Trojan horse of commercialisation and class categorisation of education? Even now, and today we heard him defend his rapporteur with passion the autonomy of schools, claiming the paternity of the idea of our country and invoking the European Union and the OECD, to oppose the government. Well, you there at SYRIZA, don't you know these agencies have the patent of autonomy? You know that, of course. That's why you're going to hide your condolence with the New Democracy in it, which is the essence, the core of the bill, behind secondary issues, and the other day behind personal controversy with the Minister of Education. No reactionary autonomy, however, can go to schools without teachers. That is why there is a very suffocating individual control, which you call it 'assessment', so that both autonomy and any reactionary measures can implement. So you create a multifaceted hierarchical administrative mechanism of education, which alone from its evaluation tasks, countless electronic forms and platforms to complete, it becomes certain that it is practically impossible to be next to teachers, to help them in their work. All they will do - and they are not too few - in the administrative pyramid is to evaluate each other and all together the teacher. After all, all of these have been properly prepared and acquired an evaluation culture, as Mr Gavroglou said, by the laws of SYRIZA for the evaluation of the school unit. The instructor will literally be surrounded from everywhere, so that it does not slip under the direction of the Ministry and whoever does not bend his head is waiting for him to retain his wages and something else, a ban on occupying any post for the next eight years. Do you remember that, gentlemen of SYRIZA? It is the German amendment on evaluation in the public sector, which is now being taken by the New Democracy, and which brings it to education. The last sharp scratch of this suffocating mechanism, school control will be its director, to whom you grant superpowers and effectively abolish the association of teachers from each school. What decentralisation and what autonomy are you talking about? Which teachers will you strengthen with the evaluation? Those who left them helpless in the suffering of telephony, or are these tens of thousands of alternates who each year have them returning with a suitcase all over Greece? And you know what? What do you think? That when teachers come out of their class, their work doesn't evaluate them themselves, they don't think what went wrong and what went wrong in their lessons, to whom students should they bend a little further? Well, don't you know that former students, adults now, when years later they see their teachers, many run with joy and excitement to greet them, why in the most sensitive years of their lives these teachers supported them and inspired them? Is that what we're talking about? If we're talking about her, then we'll let you know, if you don't know, that she never stopped happening. So if you want to strengthen teachers, then train them effectively and scientifically and not as punishment and give them those school books, scientific and well-written. At the urban school, however, all these are fine letters. In addition, this school prepares young workers as cheap, flexible, adapted to the needs of large businesses. This school, which is so friendly for businesses that it costs the state very cheap, but for parents it is extremely expensive. No people's family, no educator who respects his role can accept such a school. For one thing, you can be sure there in the government: The struggle that has already started against the bill from September 1st will sprout against its implementation. What do you think? Do you get it over with with a vote tomorrow? The people will not let their schools become commercial stores and their children are thirsty for education, even in the ocean today. The JRC - and I close, Mr President - is the only party that talks about a single and 12-year-old school. The student's contact with all aspects of human culture will be organized at this school to widen his performances, his stimuli. Because no man has just one ability but many and every human personality is a set that is not fragmented in order to deal with each other. Every man can contribute from many roads to social progress, to building the new society tomorrow, regardless of his professional choice. How, though, can this be done when the school program differs from school to school when separating pupils? That is why we insist on the single programme and the single content of the school. For the gradients and interests, ladies and gentlemen, thrive where general contact with human spiritual wealth is strengthened and not taking pieces from here and there. For this modern school, the school of theory and deed, at the same time the development and cultivation of all human interests, is fighting for the Communist Party of Greece. Because we know very well that children have hands, not only to write but also to paint, to sculpture, to get them dirty with soil, to build, to deal with simple and modern machines. They have mouths not only to say their lessons, but also to sing and play theatre. Because this school also answers the most important of all. Finally, with whatever professions a man may engage in the course of his life in society, one is the specialty he must have: man. For church education...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u28	Mr. Delis, despite the lyricity of the speech, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u29	Thank you for your qualifications, Mr President. We are negative to arrangements and I close in five seconds, based on our starting position for the separation of the State from the Church in the arrangements for church education and, of course, to say once again that we are voting against the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u30	Because many colleagues are calling here and asking what cycle we are going to go, this evening we have counted times with the principal specialist, and as we said around midnight, it takes us to go up to number 24, first and second cycles. We shall begin, after the speakers are finished, with Mr Andriano and we shall close with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou number 24. So, those outside these circles, tomorrow morning when we start at 9:00 a.m. Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou has the floor on behalf of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is assumed that today's debate on the draft law is about, among other things, the upgrading of school and the strengthening of teachers. And we say'supposed' because we probably see the opposite. No quality in education, no substantial upgrading and no modernisation of public school. What you have done with great success - and that is what we have to acknowledge to you - is to deplete your government risk in our schools. We had a school with teleworking in the morning, tele-education at noon, distance courses, and because of the circumstances it is doubtful whether the children learned the basics. We also stressed it at the meetings of the committee, and we will repeat it here that it is necessary to replace the term "inclusive education" with the most appropriate term "inclusive education" used internationally, according to a proposal from the National Disabled People's Confederation. You told us you'd see it. Did you see it? Recommendations on recommendations and this bill. Have you left anyone complaining? I guess not. A place of regional quality supervisor of education is recommended at each regional primary and secondary level. It will ensure - you say - that all forms of exclusion and discrimination are combated. Say it clearly. It will ensure the integration of migrants. Why don't you say it? And the Regional Board of Supervisors below and the Quality Supervisor of Education at each Primary Education Department, do not harm the recipe for recommendations. Don't do anything and no one's assigned to you. And for rewards and no reason. The most important thing, however, is another. Will all of them cooperate? Will it work out, or will it get worse? Convert the Centers of Educational and Advisory Support to Centres of Interdisciplinary Advisory and KEDS Support. However, the main problem in these centres remains the whole procedure for the approval of children who require special education and training. This is a particularly time-consuming process, especially when it seems to be unduly reduced or delaying the approval of pupils and pupils who need special education and training with all the negative consequences for children. The increase in staff in the provincial Special Education Committees to deal with the blockades observed with a timetable and with the psychologists as well as the number of connecting officers will help improve the overall situation. In fact, with the 2020 annual report of the Disabled Observatory, which we will present in the Minutes, it is stated that many and serious problems are encountered by support structures for education and, in particular, by the Centres for Educational Advisory and Support for the ERCS. Severe deficiencies in staff, inappropriate and unaccessable buildings, shortcomings in psychometric evaluation tools, shortcomings in logistical infrastructure, shortcomings in cleanliness staff and poor hygiene conditions are issues which make it difficult to assess and support pupils in time and in an integrated manner. For example, at the Special School of Deafos - Varicios Panorama of Thessaloniki during the school year 2019, where students with a mother tongue were studying the sign language, they had placed a gymnast and social worker who had little or no fitness in the Greek sign language. So, in view of what we have said, do you think that CEDEFOP will now be able to offer everything you publish that they will succeed? Will the Special Committee to monitor the operation of the Regional Directorate for Primary and Secondary Education, or do we still have a recommendation, say, without of course mentioning pay? We express our clear reservations about the operational expenditure of the Education Centres on the environment and sustainability. Is there a possibility that NGOs will be included in funding bodies? What should we say below about wage provisions? Apart from you, the sums have gone too. What additional expenditure are we talking about every year? Unfortunately, what we see in many parts of the bill is superpowers to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. The scope of his competence is enormous, which he clearly finds us opposing. How can we talk about transparency when the writing and research work of the candidates of education will be assessed by three-member committees, set up by a decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs? Obviously, we can't. Another thing that we have repeatedly raised, but we have not received a reply, is that of the reasons and procedure for the discharge of training officials from the exercise of their duties. The health reasons, as you mention them, include non-vaccination? We also want to know about the design and implementation of the training programmes for teachers selected and placed in posts of training staff, what will the level of expenditure of this positive measure be in the other direction? As far as the evaluation of school units and teachers is concerned, we see it moving further on the surface and so far we have not seen the existing laws being implemented. On the basis of the provisions of Articles 33, 34, 35 of Law 4692/2020 ‘School Upgrade and other provisions’ and Ministerial Decision 6603DG4 of 20 January this year all schools should plan and implement their internal and external evaluation. However, in a few schools, however, a decision was made to participate in the evaluation. Abstention from evaluation procedures reportedly ranged from 85% to 95%. I'll put it in the Minutes at the end of my speech. At a teleconferencing conference, which you had, Minister with school directors in which the State Secretary, Mrs Makre, also participated, you said that there would be consequences for those who did not participate in the evaluation of school units. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. What kind of consequences, and above all, will we look at them? Or will the consequences be in the form of a training programme imposed as a sanction if the work of a permanent teacher is considered to be unsatisfactory? Of course, in one case you are entirely flexible, and on the other - in other words, the cadet - it is imperative that it be ratified as a penalty for non-permanentity. With regard to the process of evaluating the work of teachers, does the infrastructure not affect the assessment of the criteria? How many schools have interactive paintings? Do you know in many schools that existing chalk tables are in a terrible state? Do all schools have computer labs? Not for Informatics, but for other courses. For example, to simulate physics experiments and use of mathematical software? Even if there's a lab, does it have the right software? There's a lot of B-level teachers who can't do what they've learned. That's how training is cancelled. They are set up and operate teaching books and a digital library of teaching books. But how many students don't have access to the Internet or do they have a computer? The choice of a tutorial book in each lesson taught in the public or private primary and secondary schools by the teachers teaching the relevant courses is made. You try to apply practices that have been proposed in the past and that have been applied for some time and have been abandoned, such as the case of the multiple book. The chasm that's going to be created, did you think about it? Resuspend a forgotten idea from the old ones, which apparently for some reasons was there. Do you know them? Have you assessed them or have you just scoured her and brought us? Such regulation leads with mathematical accuracy to different education and to different supplies from students. Besides, how free will the multiple book be? The definition of material in the analytical programme, the angle to which the concepts will be introduced, the depth to which the teachers will enter will be free or limited? Also, Minister, you did not answer the question we asked about whether there were any investigations into the failure of the multi-book to intervene in the German-Gerastic Arseny. It is clearly for the benefit of students to be evaluated every quarter and not every four months. The more commonly evaluated these, but also the more frequent the parents are being informed of their progress, the more beneficial it is for students and the same educational process. As far as the functioning of the educational groups is concerned, we ask the following question: A teacher in the standards and experimental schools he has twenty hours a week will do sixteen hours the courses of the detailed programme, two hours in the group and two hours reduced working hours, as foreseen for teachers in standards and experimental courses, while in schools that are not standard and experimentally an instructor who has twenty hours a week will be doing twenty hours a week. That is for reasons of equality, transparency, reliable and valid information must be clarified now. Why should teachers be informed at the last minute? The Director or Head of the School Unit, at the request of the School Association of Teachers or on his own initiative, may decide to conclude cooperation agreements with any body it deems appropriate. And if you want to make it more vague, it can't be done. Who will these bodies be? Introduce the institution of the educational counsellor - mentor, whose responsibilities are vague, so that the working relationship between him and the teacher is not clear, with all that implies in order to maintain the balance and proper functioning within the school unit. Disciplinary sentence - we read below - of the written rebuke by the director or the head of the school unit, but without the need to ensure that the possible misuse is controlled. You say the teaching is awarded by the Director or Head of the School Unit and the Teachers' Association, following a recommendation from the Director or Head of the School, will decide on the award of teaching staff in the classes and departments. We believe that the award of the teaching hours should be made exclusively by the teachers' association. Those who have a state certificate of language, why should they be re-examined in the language? Those who do not have to be examined, but not those who do. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Article 44: You are talking about the discharge of training officials from the exercise of their duties for personal reasons. What do you mean? You mean resignation? We stressed and stressed the issue of the lack of accessibility of pupils and teachers with disabilities during both pandemic and closed schools and in everyday life. The provisions on church education are in this bill. Repeal and suspension of church schools, you say. Orthodox faith is our identity and you choose, setting limits impossible, to erase church schools from the map of our country. Sixty students for high school and a hundred and twenty students for high school and high school? This is another blow against Orthodoxy, which clearly opposes us. It is very important that the role and contribution of the High Church Academy "Vellas Ioanninas", which this October closes hundreds of ten years both uninterrupted and offered to the Orthodox church and our nation. You lead it to the closure, as is the Patriarchal Church School of Crete. Stop hitting Orthodoxy. A very serious omission is the one that has to do with the introduction of students and students to church schools, as no mention is made of disabilities. The director of the School of Learning of candidate clergymen will be appointed by a decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. On what grounds? You are concerned with the application or otherwise of the classified issue bank to define the themes of the written courses of Muslim religious specialisation in the promotional and absolute examinations of students who are in the last three classes of priesthoods and not in Turkey's provocative actions. That's beyond us. You have not answered how many students are today in the Muslim priesthoods Thrace. We're asking again. Finally, give incentives, opportunities and the opportunity to return back to our country, in the country of their hearts, all Greek women and all Greeks, about six hundred thousand, who left in the years of the memoranda. We in the Greek Solution believe and stress that education must remain faithful to the timeless continuity of Hellenism and Orthodoxy and strongly resist moral and spiritual salts. We must not leave our children without standards, without values. The state is primarily obliged to the Greek students and Greek students to build the public school that will provide them with quality education and integrated spiritual culture, with the ultimate aim and sacred purpose of the continuity of our Greek and Orthodoxity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. On behalf of Mera25, the special speaker and Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to speak before I speak on this subject and because of the particular sensitivity, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to a very serious matter these days, in my view. I wonder whether or not the Greek society is finally entitled to have an answer with regard to the incomplete or, I would say, a selective transmission of our athletes' efforts at the Tokyo Olympic Games, the biggest sporting event that takes place every four years this year, of course, is under special circumstances and with our athletes to experience a special sporting loneliness. However, what is happening in connection with their transmission from the state channel is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. I mention the cases of our champions Petrounia and Gionis who have not seen their struggle at all, but also of Korakaki and the unacceptable characterization on the part of the presenter of our state channel, who probably does not understand what it means to be an ex-Olympian. You're a Olympic man. But that's not all I'd say. I would say that even taking part in the Olympic Games is a very great honour and we should recognise that to everyone. So is there no one responsible for them or the government or ERT to answer? Will anyone at last take political and institutional responsibility, or will you take the delightful tactic to charge it to someone? It's possible that this will be done to close this thing down there. Now I would like us to go to the upcoming, however, which is the question of education. With this bill, unfortunately, the morbid tradition of the Ministry of Education continues to be presented in the summer with schools closed and the educational community outside its natural space, with absent parents and students, i.e. those mainly concerned. I'd say you weren't original. Other governments did it before you. It seems that it has now been established in Greece as the permanent system of legislating for education. All that this practice shows is that government power has an unsurpassed fear of the educational community, but also of society, which is why it always seeks to legislate in its entirety. In fact, he wants to legislate without any previous political and social dialogue. But the laws produced without fermentation with society and without any consensus, laws made by mandarins, no matter how much experience and knowledge they think they have, are doomed not to have much life. Thus education in our country has been afflicted and tested as few areas as possible by such short-term and mortal legislation. This government is an extreme example of the obsession with this practice. In the face of your anxiety about the infamous reforms you do not care about the prospect and durability of the time that you will have. So, bring a huge bill with two hundred and twenty articles. In fact, at least three laws in one. Only the place with church education should be a separate bill. So is the section on the evaluation of teachers. After the introductory articles, the part relating to the structures and staff of primary and secondary education, which are fifty-three articles, comes in. That's what we count for forty-three executive titles. You want to establish a hierarchical, administrative and control mechanism for many positions. You establish the multitude of an educational nomenclara in which you want the entire education activity to be subjected. A multi-faceted dominance at the top of which is the dominance of the government's political leadership. This has the dominant role in selecting and entrusting tasks to all the staff and at the same time excludes any possibility of decisive intervention by the educational community. In the meantime, for the selection and placement of executives there is no or intentionally avoided both a fundamental system of objective criteria and a procedure that guarantees genuinely worthwhile functioning. This is an authoritarian model that is defined by the political perception of the party that governs it. Broadly speaking, you refuse to take account of the experience of so many countries even in Europe, which you always want to express. These are examples, that is, that they have significant and successful results based on the structures of their educational system. And yet, these structures are far from the model you want today in 2021 - not in the '60s or '70s - to institutionalise. The third part of the bill relates to the evaluation of training staff and staff. A system of evaluation is being established that completes the hierarchical authoritarian model of this bill. A one-way assessment system only from top down, based on the hierarchy of the administrative mechanism you are building. The education community as a whole is condemned to silence. It is not even foreseen to have a right of opinion. Only Article 61(6) provides that the evaluation of training staff shall take into account the evaluation of the project by their subordinates. However, there is provision for permanent staff only. Subsidaries who are fully involved in the educational process and who complete the operation of the school shall be unjustified. Without them, the educational system could not function when in the exercise of their duties it is not different from their other colleagues. It does not obey any logic to exclude substitutes who serve, but are not permanent staff, for reasons solely concerning the choices of the state. In the fourth part we come to the provisions on the autonomy of the school unit. In the first chapter, there is a first positive direction. I am thinking in particular of the possibility of selecting teaching books from teachers among the approved books in the Register of Teaching Books. The multiple book, overcoming the practice of a single book, believes that it can actually have positive effects on the educational process. Perhaps it is also a principle to be distracted from the strict domination of immobilization in learning practice. We believe that the register books should be digitally available and accessible to both teachers and students. We also believe that the possibility of combining them and this different choice in individual sections of a course should be provided. However, the necessary basis for a positive operation of the system is direct and universal accessibility. Without it, the multiple book will also work as a factor of unauthorised inequalities in the operation of schools. It could also be positive for educational groups to function in primary schools, as provided for in Article 89. But this is where the abandonment of the full-day school is actually being introduced, perhaps because of the cost of overtime. That is what you are showing, since there is the free overtime of teachers, which you say will simply take into account in their individual evaluation or even specific choice as teachers. Then we have the fabulous strengthening of the role of the director. The hierarchical model will apply to each school separately. The Director shall be claimed and the Teachers' Association shall be weakened accordingly. We have not seen anything, nor have we heard any justification for that. The framework for effective intervention by the Teachers' Association has been established since 1985 by Law No 1566. So what is the reason why you think this radical revision should be carried out today? As far as we know there are no findings of a negative functioning of the institution. The problematic provision of Article 97, which allows for full substitutability of the club in the exercise of its powers by the Director and only after 10 days. A system and a shape with superpowers of the director is established, and the teacher club is transformed into a merely decorative supplement to the hierarchical mechanism. You are fully demanding in the collective opinion of teachers. The only role they may have is the execution of the above orders and their performance will be the only object of their individual assessment. Thus, the titles for autonomy of the school unit will in fact be very small since the criteria for compliance and response to orders will prevail. Indicative of governmental perception and attitude is the provision of Article 56. That stipulates that non-participation in the evaluation procedures is a disciplinary offence involving specific penalties, such as a loss of wages or a suspension of wage developments, exclusion from the selection of executives for the next eight years and, of course, the deprivation of the right to legalisation for the testifiers. Refusal to dialogue and contempt for social consensus necessarily leads the Government to the only solution to the imposition, to blackmail with the threat of punishment that completes the model of the authoritarian state and, above all, to the most immediate blackmail and, above all, to economic for workers who are trying to live their families in Greece in the prolonged crisis. In the meantime, the result of the negative assessment for those following the collective decisions of their association is also explicitly foreseen. Madam Minister, do you think you're going to face the collective decisions of the professional sectors? So you think you will press on with the overwhelming majority of them who have proved in practice that they are not obeying and are not subject to the authoritarian laws of this government? Obviously you cannot overlook or forget that you have found collective decisions toward you in such matters, such as the evaluation of the school unit, electronic voting, cameras in the classroom, absenteeism and so on. On the other hand, the government raises its hands high in terms of its obligation to really meet the needs of Greek education. Instead of dealing with the problem of lack of staff, the tens of thousands of gaps, he is simply trying to cover it with patches, such as the measure of awarding teaching. I am referring to Article 100 by which the director or head of the school may assign up to five hours of overtime instruction to cover teaching needs. The same is true in Article 171 which provides for the assignment of overtime to cover gaps relating to special treatment. Overtime there and not permanently sufficient staff. Even where we are supposed to recognize that there is a greater need for attention and care for the increased needs of these children. Unpaid overtime and in training groups. I said it before. In a similar way, the government raises its hands high and the provisions that provide that schools will provide money through the organization of events, the provision of facilities and infrastructure, or through donations and sponsorships. The state is moving away from its obligation to fund, operate and support schools which are indeed - we must stress this - and its constitutional obligation. But the most important thing here is another. That the state not only relinquishs the level of equality in the provision of education but also encourages inequalities and is conscious of it. The government's party also applies here to the liberal ideology of the necessity or usefulness of the inequalities which the Prime Minister himself has gladly supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also told the committee that it is objectively impossible to refer to all the cases of modulations that this draft law introduces. You set a ceiling on the mobilisation of the diplomas, candidates, following the standards of Law 4547/2018 on the Minister of Gabroglou. Universities, undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications are degraded and assimilated to moleculosis with seminars, training or publications. So a large number of candidates will reach the limit of twenty-eight points for the scientific formation. In other words, we have an objec­tive of objective criteria and the choice will eventually be made with the famous interview. On the other hand, you are obviously wrongly assimilated to all postgraduate degrees. You provide for a single moleculosis regardless of the time of study required for the acquisition of each title and the corresponding credit units. Also, for postgraduate studies, the bill accepts and rewards illegality. There is no provision for protection in cases of non-legal acquisition of postgraduate qualifications where the time of study is overlapping for more than one title. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to deal with a real and very serious problem. I am talking about the completely unreliable postgraduate qualifications of unreliable universities from various countries. I said that to the committee. They are securities that are acquired only in a financial exchange. And that's a common secret. So we do not have the right, ladies and gentlemen, to do what we do not know. Madam Minister, you need to see this. We know that the solution is not an easy one, but it is a top issue of justice and dignity. A so-called evaluation system is being established here. Because normal evaluation is not carried out with the crisis of single institutions and even without predetermined specific criteria so that the judgement of the evaluator can be checked. The obsession with these regimens simply carries a clear but false government message: that the quality of the education provided and the success of the system depends only on teachers who will obviously be responsible for every failure. The responsibility of the State lies with either the individual or the individual educational unit. I shall refer specifically to the issue of environmental education. It is important to ensure continuity and smooth operation. I must repeat my relevant references to the committee. It is necessary to clarify in Article 4 that the recognition of a teaching service applies in addition to the Head and to the Head of Administration of the Education team of the Centre for Sustainable Education or the Centre for Environmental Education. In addition, since the service is recognised as teaching institutions, it should also be directed to teaching by means of an amendment to Article 33. The fundamental and legal right would be that the heads of CEECs should be appointed by the regional selection councils and not by the local councils with which they have no interconnection but have no relevance. It is also necessary to address the need to increase the number of members in environmental education centres from four to five to seven due to the scope of the competences of environmental education institutions and their mission to deal with environmental problems. Finally, provision should be made for the transitional provisions for extending the operation of environmental education centres for the school year 2021-2022, respectively, and for the term of office of teachers serving them until they are served on the basis of the relevant provisions of that draft law. Beyond the contents of the bill, I shall also necessarily refer to the issue of the minimum import base for universities. This is what the Greek society is dealing with today. In that bill, we had given our opinion and warned of the consequences of these provisions. With the well-known government intransigence you have not heard. Unfortunately, we have been fully confirmed. It has been shown that these provisions did not concern candidates who would write at grades 2 or 3, as the then government arguments wanted. And now thousands of Greek families face this incomprehensible injustice and even with children who have arrived to give tests after a year and a half in the known conditions of pandemic. Obviously it is not a solution to try to avoid, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibilities of the press 'it is not our fault, it is the prerogatives of the universities that have laid these foundations'. I think you have a duty to immediately correct the obvious and unjustified injustices that have given rise to this unreasonable legacy. We know that it requires more political courage, public and practical recognition of the error than the verbal obsession in it with its logic, 'we do not admit errors, let the next one correct it'. In any case, if you consider the minimum import base so important and so necessary for the educational process and for the introduction to higher education, you will allow me to say that it is also applied to colleges. Our party, Mera25, has tabled a special amendment to abolish the minimum import base and its inappropriate application to the last pan-Hellenic. We call on you now, at least at the last minute, to accept the amendment and to include it in this bill. For the same reason, we also call on you to accept the amendment we tabled on the question of dealing with candidates from the Spanish high school in the higher education import system. You have established a common import base for daily and summer schools and abolished the special percentages of candidates from Spanish high school. This, Minister, will allow me to say that it is not equal treatment. It is a direct injustice, and indeed a flagrant one, since you insist that you do not know and do not recognize the specific conditions of life and education for these children. In conclusion, if we wanted to concentrate this bill on titles, we would have to say instead of upgrading school and strengthening teachers, authorizing and marketing, institutionalising and strengthening inequalities, an unprecedented depreciation of the educational community. In any case, I don't think you'd have the impression that there's any chance you might find us in agreement or allies. Obviously, Minister, and Mr President, we are voting in favour of the principle. We shall be voting on the individual provisions. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u34	And we thank Mrs. Sacorafa. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Andrianos, now has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a draft law from the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs which is coming to enrich, strengthen and complement the very important and substantial reformist action of the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis and in this crucial field. With studied steps, with methodicity and efficiency, the government honours all the specific commitments that it has made in the run-up to citizens, all the specific commitments that have been made in our programme to urgently strengthen and upgrade national public education. Despite the difficult juncture of the pandemic and the exceptional management needs it imposes, the Ministry of Education and Religion with the Minister, Mrs. Kerameos, the State Secretary, the State Secretary, the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General, the partners, changes day after day the data by opening a new optimistic era for the children and young people of the country. This great positive reform effort is growing even more through counterbalance. The choice, for example, of a fellow Member and the Minister of Education, to attack the Minister, involving her young children, reveals a wider misfortune of arguments. Indeed, with regard to a philosophy of public education, which seeks to continuously improve the education provided to our children, which frees school units and teachers from unnecessarily bureaucratic dependencies, which considers the non- penalisation assessment as a prerequisite and starting point for every project for the best, it is difficult to oppose arguments in favour of enthusiasm in the short and medium term, in favour of equalisation of initiative and creativity, in favour of maintaining practices and attitudes that have been abandoned for years internationally and almost nothing to do with the educational needs and capabilities of the 21st century. Above all, however, the ideological obsession of Officer Response against the pursuit of quality is the most valuable and effective tool for social mobility in our society. And that's because the families who have the financial resources, don't fool ourselves, they'll find out how to provide quality education to their children. However, our obligation, our obligation, is to encourage the continuous and substantial improvement of public education and free of charge, and this is not done without evaluation, without the suffocation of central bureaucracy, without a multilingual system, without the substantial strengthening and upgrading of the role of education officials. In this direction, the forecasts for strengthening school autonomy, with the free choice of books, with greater flexibility in the methods of evaluating children, by simplifying the everyday life of teachers, who today need to be approved by the central authorities for everything, by upgrading the role of school manager and teachers in positions of responsibility at school, with the possibility of setting up and operating educational groups, so that children develop their interests beyond the limiting obligations of the curriculum. It is extremely important to provide for the establishment of purely pedagogical staff, quality supervisors, to strengthen the role of training coordinators, training advisers of the Centres of Interdisciplinary Assessment, advisory and support school guidance, to simplify, improve transparency and rationalise the selection process of training staff. It is extremely important to introduce a fair non- penalised evaluation system for teachers and teachers of education, in order to encourage, identify and reward creativity, initiative, innovation and efficiency, and to intervene where necessary. The aim is to improve and nothing else, to improve the quality of education and knowledge transfer to our children. Also extremely important are the positive changes in church education, which aim at an overall upgrade of the clergy’s quality, so that our young clergymen have even more knowledge and supplies to minister to society with their valuable work. Ladies and gentlemen, the needs of education in our country are data, as well as data are best practices in the education systems of the group of countries that we have consciously and firmly chosen as a country to belong and speak out. Greece can only be a country of education and culture. This is our mission, this is our national identity. We cannot, therefore, abandon education in obsolete and proven incomplete practices and attitudes of the previous century, and even worse, we cannot take steps back that, instead of strengthening the school, the pupils and the teachers, are entangled in the levelling-up of the little and the medium. The choice of the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis is explicit and clear. We have also put it fully in the judgment of the citizens who have ratified it, making it binding on them. This policy therefore continues to be consistently served by the government, in response to self-confidence and thorough arguments to any good criticism, but also leaving ideology, screaming and populism unanswered, so that their voices can be judged by the citizens, by the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks who, apart from the ideological starting point and electoral behaviour, do not negotiate the quality of the education that we will provide to our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u36	We are also grateful to Mr Andrianos and to him for the consistency in time. The reason for the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Thodores Dritsa for seven minutes. Then he will be given the floor - he has been asked - by the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a country and we are part, from generation to generation, of a people who have fought enormously, very substantial and very great, and modern Greek history has been written by these struggles for education. I will not go too long, rather than in the era of Glenos, Delmuzos, Imprioti, the municipalists, even in the schools of free Greece, until 1-1-4, the "bread, education, freedom" and then in the very many games after post-Civilization. In the modern democratic reality of Greek society, after the fall of the junta, exactly topical issues were raised that still remain unsolved. Throughout this route, progressive and not populism, despite periodic peaks and priorities, was a education that gives rise to a desire to learn in a non-discriminatory manner, an education that creates a process of learning how a young man, a education that cultivates critical thinking and questioning against stereotypes or data, that is, a education of young free people, just young creative people, in a society that is free, that is creative. After this conflict, it took modern forms, depending on both internal and international developments in the economy. And precisely because there is this tradition, neither the Greek Parliament nor any government can ignore it. Perhaps we cannot have the requirement that all the young people of Greek society today know these things or are their experiences, which obviously cannot be. From the political system, and especially from the ministers and governments, however, the history of this place requires that it be always at the forefront. Another leader of your own party, supposedly a nation's ruler, as you call him the top founder of your proposition, Constantine Karamanlis arrived at the point under Law 815, listening to this whole process, saying "I withdraw and relaunch dialogue". Disorders and differences with EPE, with the New Republic of Postmulsion, with Constantine Karamanlis, the Left had too many. But history is not written by "go, I come". It is written through the composition of the opposition. You too ignore them in a way that is so provocatively unacceptable that you grow in irrationalism. Mrs. Kerame told us the other day when Alexis Tsipras, the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, criticised and then Euklidis Tsakalotos, criticised the graduates' percentage in relation to the successors in the Greek universities. Go ahead and have a serious conversation with a government and a minister. It's not because she's a woman, to God. It is because it has this policy, that attitude. Because both Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Brutsis and Mr Ploris and Mr Georgiadis and Mr Vorides and many others are at the forefront of our political criticism much more intensely. Don't be ridiculous now, and we find pretexts. When EUROSTAT itself and the Ministry of Education know that in 2020, with 43% of graduates from the Greek universities, in the sixteenth place in thirty-four countries, and Germany with 35%. Little one? Is it going to get bigger? But no irrationalism, no lies. To know which real is through the contradictions this element will create a promotional composition. This Migration and its conquests you want to abolish. At first there was the traditional Conservation of the Right, and then the market came - in other countries of Europe and the world earlier - and the invention came that education should co-operate with the market. Watch out, not with production, not with the production process, with the market. As long as the market went towards the neoliberal model of high profitability and low labour costs what did it mean? Few chosen, minds well, technocratically, without full education, but suitable to play this role, make another 20% for the intermittent and then the knit. All bills attempting since then and the famous educational reforms of the Right have this core, give cheap labour hands to the ignorant capital of neoliberalism and monopolistic directions. That's what this is about. Can it fit in this direction and in this need for learning? Can the way you learn fit? Can critical thought and question stereotypes fit? Can freedom and creativity fit? No, it can't fit. Because that's where you need to know the specialist that will make you fit in the unemployment jungle and get a chance to "feel", which Hatzistus was saying. That's what this is about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And all this is linked to an impertinent Conservation in the 21st century in Greece to insist here that Religiouss are taught as catechism and functionality and not as religion and history of religions. And that alone shows how conservative and, dear Mr. Andriane, choices not of the previous century, are those which today's government and the current leadership of the Ministry of Education are doing. From this point of view, the struggles for education - I end, Mr President - are not going to stop. Against market education, against preservatives, not against the education of production and the education of people, precisely with the possibility of evaluating this data, with multiple books on research and not about manipulation of private interests at school. Because we had the libraries. It was an experiment carried out in some cases successfully, generally withdrew, did not support it, did not strengthen teachers and teachers for research, a small percentage dealt with it, and school libraries no longer exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u38	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u39	I'm done, Mr. President. From this point of view, we cannot constantly deceive the Greek people that we are supposedly doing educational reform. All right programs in the post-government period failed and remained in many inapplicable. Not because they found the resistance only, but because they really couldn't meet the needs of Greek society. Make a real conversation with the people of education and with the Greek society. The issue is about the 21st and the 22nd century. You cannot play with the fates of this people and these young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm telling you in advance that I may make little use of my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the main slogan of the Polytechnic insurrection in 1973 was the way you will have heard "Psalm - Education - Freedom". In any rebellion intended to overthrow a dictatorship, a military junta or any other parliamentary anomaly, the central slogan that encloses the whole meaning of the uprising is always these three vein words. Do you know why this is happening? Because dictators at all the lengths and backs of this world and in all the times of the history of mankind put in mind - symptoms, that is, we say at all events - all those three goods. The Hellenic Republic has lost a huge part of our national income since 2009 to the illegal priesthood of the completely extra-institutional Brussels troika. It has led a huge part of our population to be deprived of its bread and all of us, without exception, all other Greek citizens, has led to the systematic deprivation of their constitutional and individual freedoms. For two years, however, the baton of the local governor - the location of the colony - debt colony called Greece has been taken by “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.”, assisted by the health crisis, which has rapidly transformed into an economic opportunity for every kind of economic parasite of this place, the two above-mentioned accidents, the hunger, that is, and freedom, are rapidly generalised and deteriorated, while the third pole, the pole of education, has now entered for the well-being of this place. You bring every such new draft law on education, but the essence is, Minister, that education, the funding of our education, is 50% minus everyone listening to it, to understand it - in relation to the previous memorandum years. In fact, I'd like to say a few details. In the budget this year's Minister, it is 2.6% of GDP that the budget for education. The average of the European Union, as you know, is 5%. Mr. Friends asks for it systematically in all the committees. I heard him. But I have to tell my dear friend - and he knows that I love him - that he was not just the Minister of Education himself. Unfortunately, there was Mr. Gabroglou. One must answer from SYRIZA this year: by one year, the eleven months that the memorials have ended - you have defeated them, you have exceeded them - how and your request now for 5% has not been acted? SYRIZA had the government, had the knife and the watermelon. It could be done. It didn't happen. From the beginning of your administration, Minister, you have given us a good understanding of what was expected of us. You started how? Do You Remember? With the abolition of university asylum, you have continued with a number of legislation, such as the establishment of a university police, which has fortunately never taken place, but has also been voted on the degradation of public vocational education, which clearly aimed at authorizing and marketing all the public education frameworks. Your real purpose was and remains to push youth into the arms of private IEK. That is why you have put in place the minimum import base, by which the previous Member of Parliament and Vice-President of this House, Mrs Sakorafa, told you of the crime you have committed. With the introduction of the minimum base you left twenty-three thousand children outside this year - thirty-three thousand, according to other information - which is why you abolished the 1% premium in Spanish high school, which is a crime even greater, as you have just explained - not to repeat - Mrs Sacorafas, so you have equated the so-called 'disciplines of shame' from private colleges of calamity with those of our public universities. And so, Mrs. Keramos, you personally managed to become the least popular minister of no popular government. However, away from us, Minister, the targeting of any political person. Because no matter how many times it looks like that, the problem isn't you. The problem isn't personal. It is 100% political, because your legislative initiatives have been targeted at what all of them have been, but all of them have been the governments of the New Democracy for almost half a century, forty-seven years, trying to impose, fortunately, completely unsuccessfully, until your service. We hope that you will also fail to do so. They are purely classic policies, and that is why, inhumane nature, their sole purpose is to exclude them from public education - and, of course, from higher education - all the children of poor and medium-sized households, who have no right to escape from their poverty, have no right to escape from their order. What capitalism is that? That's the dream of capitalism, that you can be someone. Your bill will never turn out to be anything! And as if this unconstitutional and anti-democratic separation of the children of the proletariat and the working class were not enough, your sadism - forgives for the expression, but only can it describe it - formulated as art, attempts to distribute these children, your victims, into the tank of the privileged and vulgar field of enrichment of schoolchildren and conglomerates, parasitic and foreign friends, not yours, Minister, personally, but certainly the government of Mr.Mitsotakis - I will say this - which, incidentally, has the only global feature of being at the same time and government of a country, but also, above all, an anonymous company! This anonymous company, which all of you have become today, and above all, your Prime Minister, New Democracy, has not always been like this, and this - the anonymous company I mean - we denounce you and you have been doing what you are not listening to. But, well, don't you mind? I'm really surprised! Doesn't it bother you? We have been telling you from this Step so long as a "unnamed governance company" and I am not saying, of course, that you are shouting and interrupting me, because you must demonstrate it and you have proved it politically, parliamentary culture. But I'm thinking the next one should take the floor after me. Why does he not say, here, reluctantly: "But how do you blame us for a limited company? We shared 600 million in non-repayable advances this six months to our poor fellow citizens who had a coffee of one person, one employee or poor cleaners, and instead, we gave back in very tough terms to all parasitics, the one who has "Aegean", the one who has the concessionaires of our tolls, those who have the "FRAPORT". Somebody answer. But you can't answer it! Because you have given them the 600 million, more than 0.5 billion in a semester, while the homeless citizen who has been closed for a year is asking for the returnees of the thousand and a thousand, as if I were not telling you! Well, I really am surprised you don't react, because that's how you accept the designation, as if it doesn't bother you that much. I suspect, in fact, that if we called you "Government of Bronzes", for example, it would bother you much more. Either way, in order to achieve what you are inhumanly aiming at in our educational system, a plan, a strategy and a systematic approach is required. In order to achieve the tradition of public education in the market, as you have attempted in a very inconceivable way to do so in a single column in the recent revision of our constitution, aiming, of course, at the dismantling of Article 16, where, fortunately, you have failed to do so, there is a need, first of all, for the complete deterioration of educational structures and then their absolute control. These two are, Mrs. Keramos, who are primarily trying to achieve with this bill of yours. Because no Greek citizen can see any coincidence that all of your laws relating to education are submitted and become laws of our State at times when all the educational community, directly affected, but also in general, our education is on holiday or quarantine. It is an indirect confession that “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.” is well aware of the destruction that brings to education and thus tries to avoid the uproar of the educational and apprenticeship community, but also of the entire Greek people, who, as I said, by the University of Polytechnic, has proved that, just as for the bread and its freedom, he is ready for his education at all times to sacrifice even his life. You know it well from 1973 until today, so you are afraid of it, and that is why you are bringing something of this kind into the zip, from the back door, and wanting to get it over with them quickly, three days before our Parliament, the Greek Parliament and the Greek Parliament, and at the heart of the holidays of all interested parties. That's why you never consulted the educational community, Minister. On the contrary, do you know what you did? You have pretended - and I personally ask you for this - a so-called consultation with the parties and to make it more believeworthy, you have removed one article from the two hundred twenty of your bill, the famous Article 85, which was and is not there - thank God! - what was involved, of course, in the fascist - apologies, but I cannot say another word - segregation of school departments according to the performance of pupils and not, as is always the case, alphabetically, something that led, of course, to a multi-speed school. When you understood, in fact, that there is no party in our Parliament that will ever vote, which would accept such an article, you withdrew it immediately and then what did you do? You have publicly renamed the parties' disagreements at their meeting with you in a supposedly synthetic, almost super-party - so I heard you say on television - a consensus of your draft law. This fact, Minister, in our view, is equally, if not more, dangerous to our democracy than the bill itself, as it clearly shows the legislative practice and the perception of the present government, your government, about what democracy means and what consensus means. The main axis of the bill is, of course, the evaluation of teachers. It is certainly the assessment that we lacked after the evaluation of the school units and the educational project, which was legislated last year, Minister, in the summer and in the whole of education, again closed. In order to avoid misunderstandings, we believe that an honest and unbiased evaluation of teachers would be very useful and even necessary. What teacher would not want to be assessed on the basis of objective criteria, so that he himself can improve and provide his students with the most quality education possible? The problem, however, lies in your interpretation of the concept of 'assessment' and of the way you try not to apply. Your assessment is mainly intimidating and punishing for our teachers and so, instead of being an improvement vehicle, it attempts to become the Trojan horse of the government to impose full control of the educational process and of the people who perform it, while removing which little had left autonomy and still enjoyed our educational process. That is why in the previous unsuccessfully failed evaluation, Minister, for school units and educational work, the participation of our teachers was 10%. Did you hear that, Mrs. Kerameau? 90% of our teachers have decided to be conscious of your previous anti-educational evaluations and you, instead of this fact to give some thought to you, to open up a real dialogue in order to hear from the educational community how these people view a useful and effective assessment, do you know where led you, Minister, to the fact that the IACC also refused to do the two previous evaluations you ordered them? You know, of course, where it led you. It has simply led you to attempt to prevent similar tragedy situations in your new assessment, by preliminarily legislating for good and bad, revenged and sentenced for all those who refuse to participate in the tragedies. Let me not repeat Articles 56 and 31, Mrs Sakorafa said so again. Article 109 of the Code on State Administration Policy, etc. shall be punished by disciplinary penalties. on non-wage development, don't take any more money for those who refuse to become your partners or associates. The 11th paragraph of Article 31 expressly provides that refusals may not even be candidates for the selection, nor may they be placed in posts of training staff or participate in selection procedures for the placement of heads of staff. I ask you directly: What ego, my God, can it be him? You don't even think for a single moment that you, the excellent ones, might be right now and then, life has it like this, do some kind of basket? And instead of finding evidence of such mistakes in the sensational abstention of our teachers in your previous evaluations, instead of saying "can't 90% of teachers go against just the government, 40% and something of them has voted for a year ago", instead of thinking "some mistake we will have made to have them all toward us" instead of just thinking, as any of our untrained or well-trained fellow citizens would think, you simply chose the purely "criminal" to address the issue, showing not only the perception of your Government, but also what kind of people are psychotic those who make it up. What can I tell you about the manager's superpowers? All Chapter II of Part IV of the bill with its predictions leads to overpowering directors, who are saddened for it, to hire a secretariat. They're the dictators who don't know what to do with their kingdom. Nothing will actually be done in the educational process, if this immunity is passed, I'm sorry, but that's how I see it, if it does not go through the judgment of your directors and is not approved by them. Absolutely sovereign, of course, becomes the Director's role in the above-mentioned evaluation. Its term of office is greatly increased and it complements the institutional system of evaluation with a strictly hierarchical, autocratic model of one-way and vertical, from the top to the bottom, and I am only ashamed of the administrative structure to have a say on the part of teachers just as puppets to watch, live up and behave from the horizons of this hierarchy, turning the school unit into an organisational structure - I am sorry to say it and I am ashamed - which reminds them of a factory of the previous century or camp of this century with teachers taking the role of simple administrative orders. It's not our teachers and teachers, Minister. Here the twist of your sadism reappears in your bill as an art as it is supposedly done in the name of the self-determination of the school unit, in which, instead of doing so, your draft law forms a powerful grid of administration and control that will obviously favour the role of teachers, reduce their creativity and create bureaucratic superstructures of oppression and the ultimate control of the educational process, which, of course, is a glorious field for the career of various party appointed officials. In addition, did you ever think, Minister, before you started the evaluation of our teachers to multiply them somehow? You'll tell me right, I'll drive you crazy, what are you talking about? You've been talking for so many days about eleven thousand five hundred new assignments. It's awesome! After so many years, eleven thousand five hundred new assignments that so proudly surround them in your statements. Let me tell you that we cannot be fooled in here, it is a shame. I say to you, Minister: this year three thousand five hundred teachers and four thousand teachers will be retired, a total of seven thousand five hundred. The number eleven thousand seven hundred, mentioned, is also mentioned in the middle and education of primary school. So, by subtracting seven thousand five hundred from eleven thousand seven hundred, you understand why we're talking about hiring. But that hides the truth. Because the truth - that the Greek people should listen to her know her - is another. Do you know who she is? From January 2010, Mr President, forty thousand teachers were retired until March 2021. Do you know how many people hired in their place? Do you know all those of you who ruled? Do you know how to get in here without shame? It's three thousand, and it's a national shame that I'm going to cry from the thrill. It's disgraceful, national! It's three thousand instead of fifty thousand. And you come here and move us the eleven thousand seven hundred who will leave seven thousand five hundred today? You shouldn't. I am talking to you about the real needs to cover tens of thousands of permanent staff, about their real establishment plans - Mr President, I will not speak again for the three days from now - or their real upgrading to infrastructure. And since we're talking about infrastructure, Mrs. Keramos, you tell me, if you want, for example, how this new dictator your director, assisted by your wise counselor, will he be able to assess the use of computer technologies when these simply happen in that school unit not to exist, not to exist? How well do you think that due to the above-mentioned duet in the evaluation of substitute teachers travelling every year and being evaluated by different heads who don't even have a sample of writing their work? Only for a few months will they have studied them. I mean, they won't know them, Minister. The ones they're supposed to assess won't know. On the other hand, the one-way 'assessment only by the Heads of State or Government' what risks does it pose? For example, please think, Minister, an instructor somewhere in the territory is using a little more progressive, a little more liberal teaching methods, such as those that I am sure have been adopted and used for decades in all major educational establishments of the earth, such as the Harvard University, whose graduates you are, methods that may go into some modernisms, but at the same time they are extremely effective. If such an instructor finds himself under the absolute authority of an anachronist - and don't tell me that there are no such commander - manager, of those you're going to build, lose or miss a chance of progress? Also, personal passions, atrocities, human sympathies, dislikes how you are so sure they will not play any role in the operation of the school, that managers will be honest and that they will not beat the one who hates not to progress since they will have almost absolute authority? Finally, in our view, a system of evaluation to have, Minister, and the slightest chance that it will work will have to be carried out on both sides. To assess the director, of course, the teachers, but also the teachers, their directors, and the assistants, and those who are not permanent, as well as the trainers from the managers, but also from the teachers and, of course, from first and foremost, from all of them and the teachers, and the managers, and the consultants and whatever else one can imagine from their students. Was it so hard to think about it? No, it wasn't hard at all. You thought about it, but you rejected it right away. Do you know why? Because it's the deep democratic way, it doesn't suit you. It is the collective way in which the whole community collaborates and united together solves its common problems. And when the knot sometimes reaches the comb, do you know what it's doing? The majority principle is simply applicable. You know that, but it doesn't make you 'cause openness, clean participatory democracy doesn't suit you. Because it leads mathematically to the liberation of peoples, whom you want enslaved in the memorials with the logic of fatalism that there is no other solution, subjection or death. It's not like that. I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. What needs to be assessed in particular, Minister, is the result and the result has two parameters: the first is whether students learn and the second is equally important whether they enjoy learning or perhaps even more important than the first because, as everyone knows, if they do not enjoy learning, they will eventually learn less. And you will allow me to close with a poem. I don't want to say a whole great poem wrong. It is the 'Thessaloniki Circle'. I dedicate it to you, Minister, and to 'Mr. Mitsotakis S.A.” mainly with all my heart. This is a masterpiece of Markopoulos from the «Thessaloniki Circle». It's absolutely appropriate and it's exactly what I'm going to say to you: "The teacher," says this poem, you'll know that, "This sardannapath will no longer stop teaching in words like that of fire that whoever for the right does not fight will live and die like a raft." This is exactly what your bill intends to make to castrate, to decapitate this teacher who tells them "frames, no more submission, it's a dead end for twelve years the course. There is a solution and it lies in dignity, resistance and our battle." Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u42	Mr Gregoriadis, as you can see - you said so at the outset - you have exhausted all the time, so that the Members who did not hear it will not be intimidated. Mr. Gregoriadis himself said he took all the time he was entitled to for the weekend. And now we are continuing with Mr Dionysios Stamenitis, Member of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a comment on the previous speech. I have heard that you are criticising the time chosen for the bill to come to the House. So, what do you mean? Will the House close two to three months? Should we not legislate July, June? That's a weird thing. There has been unlimited time, three days to discuss and, obviously, time has been given to committees and elsewhere. I think you should find something different in your review. The debate in plenary today on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs entitled 'Strengthening the school and strengthening of educational and other provisions' has begun. This draft law, as it is well known, is based on three interconnected pillars on which all the reform effort proposed is unfolding. I am thinking, firstly, of strengthening the autonomy of school units through the confidence of our teachers, greater freedom to build and organise the way of teaching, strengthening the role of director and teachers with a responsibility, as well as establishing increased transparency and accountability, which will help to decentralise the system by transferring numerous responsibilities to schools themselves. And this is where the question arises: How can one disagree with certain regulations that give the opportunity to develop initiatives to those who are best aware of the needs of pupils and schools, namely, teachers? Secondly, I am talking about establishing the mechanism for evaluating the work of our teachers, as is the case in 90% of European countries. The aim is to support efforts and improve the training itself, but also to continuous, holistic, professional development, changes that will make a decisive contribution to upgrading the level of education provided. And thirdly, I am talking about strengthening education support structures. Finally, the arrangements for church education are important, with a view to modernising and reorganising secondary, postgraduate and higher church education. The main aim of the changes is to train our priests, to upgrade the clergy and to rationalise the structures of higher church education. From the parts of the bill and the arrangements and changes it introduces, we find that this is a legislative initiative that changes the way in which school operates, with a view to the best performance of pupils, the enrichment of knowledge and the strengthening of training. It forms a new framework for the performance of the duties of teachers with a view to themselves being freed. Different data are generated with what has been done to date, as regards the way in which it is taught, strengthened, released, supported and evaluated. Ladies and gentlemen, in attending these days the debate that took place at the meetings of the committees, I was truly very impressed by the severe attack by the Minister of Education itself on opposition, which I hope will not see repeated in plenary. Because what we have seen is not the criticism of the substance and the content of the regulations and the changes that the new bill brings. It is a personalised attack, with insulting characterisations, unprecedented for the data of political confrontation and parliamentary procedures. We do not need to repeat what was said by the SYRIZA rapporteur. But it is worth looking for the reasons that he and he have arrested through him the party of Officerial Response proceeded to them. I believe that it is the lack of proposals, of new ideas, of loathing in misery and of ideologically antiquated perceptions. This is of great concern to the SYRIZA who leads him to such political behaviour. And unfortunately for you, the whole of society now understands it. The Party of Officerial Response gives the last battle of the retardant, defending views of yesterday, not being able to follow the requirements of modern world and constantly changing data. Ladies and gentlemen, today the proposals of the New Democracy Government for substantial changes in education, for reforms that will open up new horizons to our children and provide supplies so that they can be competitive in the modern world, society accepts them and supports them. These are interventions that will be broken over many years and free the productive and healthy forces of our educational system. And finally, what is very disturbing, obviously, is that citizens welcome and support the upgrading of our universities, the abolition of the asylum of lawlessness, the initiatives for experimental and standard schools, the opening up of universities to foreign students and the strengthening of the extroversion of the country's highest institutions. And as they testify to the elements of the polls, which also have their value, citizens support and the arrangements and evaluation of teachers. Be careful, although it has been said and it is necessary to repeat: What do you say to us? Let's go to the synthesis of controversy. We say: let's go to what society says. Seven out of ten people take a positive view of the evaluation of teachers. In 92% Greeks agree with the introduction of new themes into schools through skill labs, more than three out of four by increasing the number of pilot and experimental schools. Is there anything else bothering you about something else in SYRIZA? Are they the hires? Four and a half thousand in special lawsuits this year. First time after ten years they were recruited. So what's bothering you? The proposals of the draft law, the recruitments or both together? Look, in the upward course taken by the education sector in our country, SYRIZA only has to demonstrate obsession and strangles in yesterday, as it was your insistence not to vote for the change to Article 16 of the Constitution, as regards the establishment of private universities. And finally, what did you manage? To rub their hands in Bulgaria, Cyprus and other countries, where several Greek high school graduates are led to study. This is the contribution of your party, the left, to education, which is coming today in the absence of arguments to personally attack the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first two years of New Democracy's governance, most of the election programme for modernising public and private education has been implemented. We believe that, in order to advance and prosper society first of all, it needs to have a modern and good educational system. The development of the economy and society through education is achieved. That is why the modernisation of our education system is one of the first priorities of the New Democracy Government, which has made courageous changes and substantial interventions. It is our duty toward our children, in future generations, to build a system of education that will give them all the resources to carry out their plans and their ambitions for their own future and to reach where everyone and everyone dream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u44	We too thank Mr Stamenitis and the consistency of time. The floor is now, after the Step, the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u45	So with the foreign policy that you followed - he said that he wanted to hear what SYRIZA did - but also the strong messages of the pandemic, a comprehensive reform was needed after that in education that responded to modern needs, with a plan, vision and a look into the future. Instead, the Government of New Democracy continues to dismantle Law 1566/1985, without dialogue and consultation with the educational community, without any composition of the different views, without scientific documentation. Refugee the re-establishment of the National Education Council, which ensures the conditions for consultation. You are forgetting that no educational policy has been sustainable, but only any social and political consensus has been reached. During the pandemic you did not manage to combine the necessary function of education with health protection and this affected parents, teachers and caused a serious learning and educational deficit for students. You served in a reformist chatter. Other times without reforms and sometimes invoking PASOK reforms. You have wasted time for communication purposes, for the service of peers and with supposedly reforms, which have not improved the education provided. For example, I mention the changing basis of introduction with the contradictory results and many good students outside universities. We have asked this year for a pandemic not to apply and we have at the same time formulated our comprehensive proposal for the national disinfection centre that modernises how to enter higher education institutions. Today, the priority must be to cover the educational deficit by developing compensatory programmes and recruitment of teachers. The symbiote school, a word about the full-day municipality, is preserved for its responsible teacher, to expand the compulsory working hours, to establish a full-day high school, to restore the single reformed educational program. You reduce the hours for positive courses, social sciences, economics and others. Increase sterile competition with additional tests and deny the proposal for foreign language and IT certification. You form, at the same time, a suffocating anachronistic framework of management and education control. Our already centralised educational system becomes overcentered by administrative and bureaucratic strengthening. You eliminate the educational, pedagogical and interventional role of the school advisor, and I remind you of the false promises you had made to elect them to restore equitable caratomy suffered by the previous government. No decentralisation of responsibilities by the Ministry of Administration. Degradation of collective bodies on a number of topics, such as selection of Vice-President, planning of educational work, conclusion of cooperation agreements, in-school training, selection of new institutions, etc. All by director's decisions and not by the entire institution. Teachers become a minority even on the school board. Eventually the administration is demanding education. The administration of science. In the evaluation you left your previous positions - something positive - and now move in the direction of our own, since it is not linked to graduation and wage development, it does not involve quotas and no penalties, but training. However, what training you are talking about, since you do not reinstate regional training centres and propose a stable training system, neither a management record nor an evaluation system for the other factors of education beyond human resources. In other words, infrastructure, equipment, administration and care, books, detailed programmes, etc. Proceed to select executives with absolute control of the selection boards. With appointed parties in the post of denounced hereditaries. You are increasing the molecules of the interview so that the appointed members of the board can more easily promote those who, among other things, will assess the other teachers. It's the core of the evaluation mechanism. Ultimately, the evaluation will be under the umbrella of the controlled and directed administration system that you set up and in fact will be devalued and will have no real benefit for education. Nevertheless, we have said that we are voting for most of the provisions on evaluation, but with all the framework that you set up next door, you will despise them and you will vindicate those against evaluation. That's what you're gonna do. For the nomination system, talk! We are talking about a mixed APA system, curriculum titles, pre-service and training mobilisation and care for those who are already in education for many years. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Until then, however, you have to heal things there, such as the injustice that has to do with the 2008 competition and comply with the decision of the S.H.E. As a state. People who have a higher score than teachers who have already been appointed and well-appointed cannot stay. We must comply with the decision of the Council of State. For church education, there are arrangements to resolve issues and deal with issues that existed, and there are arrangements that needed to have been the subject of dialogue, such as the abolition of the two traditional church academies and Ioannina and Thessaloniki, as well as church high school highes. The Patriarchal Higher Ecclesiastes Academy of Crete, which operates as it is known with two curriculum programs in music and pseudostics, not only the Byzantine one, which is considered according to UNESCO as an intangible cultural heritage but also all kinds of traditional and contemporary music worldwide. PAEK, Patriarchal Highest Church Academy of Crete can be a dynamic attraction for students from the Balkans, the Mediterranean and all over the world and we propose with an amendment we have tabled and ask you to consider it, the establishment of a foreign language section. At the same time, however, - I stress - it is also necessary to complete the procedures to those already elected teachers. Minister, I would like to point out to you, and I would ask you not to continue the same pattern as the new school year. Prepare now and correctly. Find rooms in collaboration with the municipalities to operate a few parts. Create alternative timetables and detailed programs, with rotation and application of distance learning. Special attention is paid to special schools where compliance with health protocols has more difficulty. Priority should be given to vaccination of teachers and diagnostic tests reliably carried out by the EGE. Show some interest. There's no other room for closed schools for the third year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Christos Tarantilis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's intensive legislative work in the field of education demonstrates our faith in the value of education and the recognition of its priority as regards the need for reforms. This draft law comes to complement our reform work, aiming at upgrading the public school and strengthening teachers. It is true that teachers in public education structures are faced with the demands of a centralised, bureaucratic system of school operation. This works inhibiting the release of creative forces that could be channelled into the teaching work. However, there are no few teachers who offer much more of their mandatory tasks, keeping the educational community in a fertile interface with the rest of society. However, they are often in apologetic position, trying to reverse the underlying question about their work and their contribution. This has certainly been the case for decades of opposition to any attempt to create and adopt an institutional evaluation mechanism. It is precisely for this reason that this legislative proposal seeks to create, on the one hand, a framework of autonomy for the liberalisation and promotion of initiatives and, on the other, an objective evaluation framework aimed at teaching support and targeted training for teachers. Let us see more specifically what proposed arrangements we will be leading to the upgrading of a Greek public school for which we often grumble, but we hesitate to put the finger on the type of suns. Firstly, by reforming education structures and creating posts of a purely pedagogical nature. At the same time as the first one after twelve years of appointment of eleven thousand seven hundred permanent teachers and the strengthening of multidisciplinary advisory and support centres with a thousand organic positions of psychologists and social workers, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs recommends the establishment of new structures of a purely pedagogical nature and the promotion of eight hundred training advisers. Quality supervisors and training advisers, multidisciplinary evaluation, advisory and support centres, environmental and sustainability education centres will contribute substantially to both the training of teachers and their shaping evaluation. Secondly, with an organised, systematic and transparent accountability process. In Europe, 90% of education systems implement some kind of evaluation aimed primarily at feedback. Our country has been part of the rest of the 10% for decades. Of course, there is no question of returning to inspection that, as a control mechanism for the education of the previous century, has proved to be overconservative and has been overcome by developments. The proposal for a comprehensive accounting assessment of training staff aims to diagnose their effectiveness. At the same time, the shaping evaluation of primary and secondary education is aimed at continuing vocational development and improvement of educational work. In more detail, the periodic evaluation process will cover the three components of the educational project, teaching, teaching and service. A positive assessment will be made for the selection of teachers in positions of responsibility, while finding a weakness will be covered by training. In both cases, the aim is professional development, not the stagnation which primarily disappoints teachers themselves. Thirdly, with a higher degree of autonomy at school. At the moment more than 80% of the decisions concerning the functioning of primary and secondary education are being taken centrally, while the average in the OECD countries is just 35%, while research correlates with decentralisation with higher school performance. The liberal states have been turning from the strict central guidelines towards a decentralised and more autonomous educational environment where teachers take into account the educational context. On the other hand, the centralisation of the Greek system, the above-mentioned general application in conjunction with bureaucratic processes undermine differentiated teaching and innovation. So we need to trust and give our teachers greater freedom. That is why we recommend the free choice of a book, segregation in the evaluation procedures of pupils, decentralisation in the adoption of educational actions, simplification of investigation and practice procedures in school classes. Fourthly, with the care of the Ministry for the rationalisation of secondary, postgraduate and higher church education. Fifteen years after the last law on ecclesiastical education was passed, namely in 2006, it attempts to upgrade secondary ecclesiastical education by appointing teachers of increased qualifications, selecting pupils through examinations and setting up a special supervisory board. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs recommends the creation of students' schools of candidate clergy with a view to upgrading the education level of the clergy, whose appointment will now require a degree of AEI or a diploma from a students' school of candidate clergy. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, while fully respecting our election commitments, the government is attempting, with this draft law, to heal three main problems of education, centralisation, lack of feedback and stagnation. In their place it represents the autonomy of school units, the evaluation of teachers and training staff, the overall upgrading of the educational project offered. The school must evolve and adapt in time to changes in time so that it can reconcile them and not follow them late. Only then can we be optimistic that the Greek public school will be revived, preparing not for a world that does not exist, but for a tomorrow as it deserves in the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr Taradili, and the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, unlike his title, the New Democracy bill is downgrading education and weakening teachers. You'll tell me, classic political deception recipe. We put a casing in to dress a very negative and anti-grass bill. The bill is the fact that it continues the policy of Mr. Mitsotakis in education. It introduces new social discrimination, injustices, creates inequality against children mainly of the populace, but also introduces authoritarian practices. It introduces to school another way fear, logic to teachers, but also to young people and young people that a tough administration oversees, controls everything and must be subjected to it. These choices, apart from being unfair and unscientific, i.e. backwards, work at the expense of education itself. I'll use a title. I don't know if he's right. They're anti-morphological practices. They are, first of all, blocking the development of fertile interactions within the school community, within all members of the educational family, but they reproduce and discriminate, encroach on children who do not have the opportunity for an accurate education to stay stagnant, stay excluded, because it just happened in their lives to be born in a family, in a district that does not have to give human financial resources to support them. Unfortunately, the New Democracy recognises not only the state but also the school as a tool of the party, not as a tool of society, not as a source of democracy. Proof of this undemocratic culture is that it strengthens the hierarchy, this representation of one person, weakening every collective expression and every educational institution of collectiveness. In practice, the Minister is trying to do what is to reproduce power and within school, to suppress all attempts to collectively, all free thinking and thus not letting anyone react. That is why it introduces this strict hierarchical administrative structure and an extreme evaluation tool with punishment. It practically maintains the model of the New Democracy and society. What do you want for society? You want an over-exploitation society, people being scared, being pressed, having a work intensity, an increase in working hours in employment, a reduction in wages, a constant fear "do not speak too much, you may lose your job and you must eventually submit to the system". In the same direction of discrimination, Mr Mitsotakis' educational policy is moving, which Mrs Kerameos obviously implements. It's not personal. Politics is the contrast. Minimum basis for introduction, bank of topics, school, examination centre, deterioration of technical and vocational education, party selection of managers and heads, police at universities, sub-funding. All of this is reactionary changes, but they are also stumbled, short-sighted choices. The New Democracy does not dare, for example, implement the reform of Law 4547 with regional educational planning centres. She can't go to a collective evaluation, but also to upgrade school. It cannot manage interdisciplinaryity. She can't discuss with the school community, parents, teachers, students and make use of the school club. He's afraid of the school club, so he's fascinating him. It restores individual control, i.e. the inspector outside who is not a training counselor, but is a strict judge from the outside. She doesn't know the community and so it restricts the possibility of upgrading the school and all she cares about is suffocating control. SYRIZA on the other hand, with Law 4547, even in the mode of selection, was constantly fuelling evolution, that is, to have young people in the administration of schools. Instead, what does the bill say? We have a permanent reproduction of the same executives, a little moleculosis in education, a lot of moleculosis in management. So the system's best friends get molecules so that the next strains can be as well. And setting up the selection boards is certain that it does not guarantee political neutrality. The elected representatives shall be rectified. We have a lot more anti-destructive crisis tools, a lack of accountability with the director's superpowers and a punishing assessment. This is the New Democracy. I think it's clear. However, following Mr Taradili's intervention, I would like to give three features to what the New Democracy policy is. First, in education: Unjust class choices for young people and young people and their families. Reproduction of a society of discrimination and inequality against all families who do not simply have the opportunity, born in a wrong neighborhood. Second: Services in economic interests, especially with college and schoolgirls. It must be said that Mrs Keramea is consistent with the political plan of the New Democracy and provides for the exchanges of the election agreement of the New Democracy. So you can arrange and serve without sacred and loyal. Limitation of importers. Retirement of children from education and education. We said about the entrance base. And finally, supply of colleges which push poor families and children who do not have the opportunity either in vocational training or even in the margin. And that is obviously entirely linked to Mrs Kerameo's amendment that required the chambers to register college graduates by proving that deal with collegeers is a concrete agreement from the New Democracy. However, there is also a third feature other than discrimination, except inequality, other than service. It's the autocracy in life, at work and at school. It's what New Democracy wants to dominate the new generation. You want the fear of young people to dominate the fear of a society of insecurity with great social pressure, with the limitation of freedoms. You say to young people quite simply: you don't have a point of view. You didn't deserve to have dreams. You didn't have the right to claim progress. You've got to submit to the most - much cooling in the pigeon. Of course, if you're a CPI officer, you can also become PPC's CEO with 360 grand a year. That's the New Democracy policy. But today, the Ministry of Education and its political leadership go a step further. It is materializing a scandalous anachronistic anti-European policy with envy for young people, with envy for anything authentic, any popular. In practice, it could not be done otherwise, because what other Minister for Education would accept recruitment for police officers and not for teachers at universities? What other Minister of Education would agree to introduce a draft law on higher education, to match the standards of your policy. SYRIZA, however, presents proposals for the grant of the HEIs, for the disabled teachers, for the support of students who lost their parents in the pandemic, for the support of graduates of technical and professional high school, for the abolition of the themes bank and for the withdrawal of the minimum import base. And we have six amendments that prove that we are not only making opposition, but we are also making proposals. Because in particular this minimum import base was the most unfair, most anti-grassy, most anachronistic tool. Mrs. Kyrame, in a year when the children suffered, the families suffered, you come this year to apply the most unfair thing to do and cause arrhythmias that punish both children and parents. Children who write very well in the basic course do not enter and enter others who have a better average. Applicant who writes excellently in physics, does not enter physics, but others who have a better average in the rest of the courses come in. A student who is cut from Corfu's Translation for her French, enters French Philology. Luminous from Basilican or Alexia have gathered twenty thousand molecules. They can enter Architecture, but they're cut. I have received a letter from a colleague of mine who says that her child has received five and a half thousand more molecules to get into the decorative, and she can't even get in from the minimum import base. We have too, too many such traits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't think it corresponds to us, Mrs. Keramos, this school you're planning, a school where everything is controlled, that teachers are separated, that executives only evolve with photographic provisions, which critical thinking is eliminated, that distances between students grow, that go to school is becoming more and more difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u50	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Mr President. We don't like a school where opportunities can't be the same for everyone. This school, we don't want it. This school isn't worth our kids. And you know what? They are these children, this is the new generation that will be in the polls and will give the message that this government will fall and that we have a progressive democratic government that cares about the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u52	The President of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Fotini Pipilis, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Faithful to the doctrine of Mitsotakis "true and reasonable" as it has been heard today at the Ministerial Council, I will begin with a reference to the motto of most of the Opposition on popular strata. Use other expressions because these are now obscure and mainly do not reflect the reality. Starting: George Giannoulis High School of Chania, Stefanos Zisopoulou from GEL Trikalons, Athanasios Babalis from GEL Tirnavos, Eleanora Balaska from Raptou High School, Sotiris Anastasopoulos from GEL Pyrgos, Aremetrios from EPAEL Elassonas, Maria Goltsiou student from Elassona, Eliana Mallorakis from 2nd High School of Chania, Panagiotis Houndikis from the high school of Alikarnassos and finally, Dimitris Karakostas who lost both parents from coronary and yet swept into molecules. They ran into molecules not to say that everyone was pressed because of the lockdown, because it is evidenced by the reality that both of the popular layers of the province and of the mountain and of the spear are children who lived the same hard conditions. Stop that story with the folk mattress anymore! Also, a separate case is Yiannis Lagakis from Saints Theodores, with ten thousand molecules photographed with his cleansing mother, because his wardrobe-father worked, telling journalist Christina Zachos in ifeimerida that while his molecules entered law school, he chooses the children's dream to become a teacher. That is why we support Mrs Kerameo's efforts. Let's go to the mothers' popular layers of "Ekali", which you always think they're from there. Vivian Sarris from Chania gave pan-Hellenics via PAAL and took ten thousand molecules. The Lambrin Javidis, a wild-minded mom who scanned in Hellenic, is a professional aesthetic mother of two children. Maria Kotsichou from Heraklion Crete, forty-four years old, wanted to become a nurse at first and entered the public IEK in nursing. Another resident from the "Speak"! Panayota Vasilopoulou, fifty - five years old by Tyrnavo, swept into the pan-Hellenic with nineteen thousand fifty - five molecules. Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring specifically to SYRIZA, you are exercising a dangerous black policy, you have worked on the case of the student who simply did not enter the school of his personal choice because he did not write well in the most basic lesson of Metsovi that was the project and does not want to go to another. You've worked on this kid and I don't know the consequences of this act of the barbaric you've done. You are still provokingly hiding that the minimum bases are judged - as you have asked in the past - by educational institutions. Your leader, in a demolitionist, for the treatment of the citizen of cressado - how much rather of the children - hastened to set entry on the same score, with this year's rating, at the polytechnic and in general, if he ever becomes Prime Minister of this student and of others. In other words, the chief of the European country's officer's counter-multiple eats without any misgivings of illegal entry by a law which he will bring and which makes the score set by the same universities flexible. Parent's dreams aren't a memorial. It is not a memorial of children's dreams to make fun of them, as you did with the abolition of HISPIA. I heard at noon in SKAI, the President of OLEME to state categorically opposed to the evaluation. I'm sorry to say that. It is shameful for the trade union movement to behave, the way it writes even unorthodox banners, the way it cannot draw up a proposal, close the general, causative and anything else in grammar. They are these people who represent the most crucial part in the education that teachers are. We older ones remember with love because they were educated and committed to their profession. They are represented by people trade unionists who have no level at the expense of others who have a level and want the assessment. The president of OLEME at the radio "SKAI" at noon said they don't want the evaluation because the evaluation will gather mafias. He didn't say that. It's schematic, my word. They'll gather up and tell students and a number of other scavengers and ask him very difficult questions in class. Something which even the journalists, Hiotis and Papadopoulos told him "we'll see you next Wednesday to explain why we didn't understand". You dare say that Mrs Keramos' bill serves the interests of private universities. You are the very great sponsors of the private universities of Cyprus. And you and you. You're the dealers, the sponsors you send the children. You did not vote for the change in 2019 in the article in the Constitution and you are now sending the children to Cyprus. And it is Cyprus that accepts most Greeks. Shame on your own decisions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now we're going to the Finland model. We happen to have been to Scandinavia for investigations. We are talking about the Finland model, forgetting that to become a Finland model we must change the whole of the people. To enter a teacher or teacher in Finland you can't imagine how much they ask him. Read. But how many exams, how many interviews to hire a teacher. And here the Greeks learned as soon as we get a degree from any school to think that we're undetermined teachers. To finally tell you, Mr. Kerameus, what you have not predicted. I've been told by teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u54	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u55	I didn't interrupt anyone and I won't allow you. Listen and I'll be done. Teachers told me that with the question of the professor's strengthening and even the appointment of the director they react to - we will see what will happen at the end - the teachers feel safer because you cannot make a law prohibiting the bulging of mothers' owls and fathers' owls. The biggest bowling in the teachers is unfortunately done by many parents who have the “kunk” syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u56	And we thank Mrs. Pipilis. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Syntakakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. The Government in its attempt to show the highly reactionary changes in education as a breakthrough in educational things does not hesitate to do black white by presenting the autonomy of the school, namely, the break in the uniform nature of education in the structure, function and detailed programmes as an upgrade of the quality of public education. And if it's as good and good as what the New Democracy government does, can you tell us, like the previous one why you brought this bill into a pandemic, into the heart of summer? But the answer is obvious. Because it is the only time for the government to attack the youth's cultural rights insidiously. SYRIZA did so in the previous years of his administration. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] This attitude of the governments states guilt and effort to avoid popular reactions. They are diligently hiding that it is a bill on order for business groups, direction of the European Union, OECD Directive. The Association of Greek Industrialists fully embraces it in order to serve the demands of capital. The core of this bill is the autonomy of the school unit at all levels. It's in the contents, in the finances, in the recruitment of teachers, and it goes on to say. It is the school that prioritises skills based, that is, what the market wants each time, not on the basis of social needs, modern folk needs. Not for the sake of the education of young people. It means cutting costs by saving staff, resources and unnecessary costs. When all of you say about schools open to society, you mean nothing but the school's rewarding function, that is, even the few that the municipalities give for schools, for maintenance, for heating and a lot of other things, to be able to collect them in the multiplier. This thing you baptize autonomy. SYRIZA is baptizing it with decentralization. "What did you have, Yannis? What I've always had." Good school is always in direct connection with the good parent's pocket. This draft law presupposes monitoring at all levels as to how otherwise separated school serves the competitive requirements of the market and employers. This is the actual content of the evaluation. It presupposes managers and managers of persuasive bodies, capable and willingly in the role of managers to exploit the premises of the school, providing additional resources through the organisation of events and easier acceptance of donations and sponsorships. It presupposes school councils free of annoying voices of the school club of teachers, parents' associations, students. You're pulling spirals with the role of the collective organs. The autonomy of school units, i.e. decentralized, competitive, differentiated, categorised school, is not just some strangeness of some ministers or some random event. It's the school of the future your class wants, the one you serve, the bourgeois class wants. I mean, the multi-speed school. It is what the OECD has been planning for years, at least since the late 1980s. All of you, with individual differences, served and served these designs. The similarity of all your politicians, with any government, either of the New Democracy, of either SYRIZA or of PASOK, with any minister, called Arseni, Diamantopoulou, Arvanitopoulos, Gavroglou, Friend, Kerameou, in any case, with a dozen bills each and every one in their assets, is in full alignment with what the industrialists have been seeking since 1989. The Employers' Pressure Group of the round table of European industrialists became the mark, saying that education and training are seen as vital strategic investment for the future success of the company. In fact, he regrets that the industry, they say, has gained a little influence on the programmes being taught, because teachers have an inadequate understanding of the business environment and the notion of profit, and that these teachers do not understand the needs of the industry. Here, then, is the most important criterion of evaluation, to understand the requirements of industrialists and to be completely subordinate to these jewels. The skill school, therefore, and the training that the government so advertises, is the choice of industrialists, and here there is an absolute match for the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, and indeed for the benefit of each other. I will recall what Mr Philis said in May 2020 as a response to the Minister for Turning to the cultivating skills of the 20th first century. For skills, he says, "we are evidently in favour of mild activities in school." 'We are not', he says, 'we do it as SYRIZA's government. The Change Movement, of course, does not miss the opportunity to recall that the skills opened by PASOK in 1997 with Arsenis and then modernised in 2011 on Diamantopoulou. We ask why this perseverance in skills, whether they are mild or cruel? Because they are the ones that define the change of thinking, how the student is being formed today, what a worker will become tomorrow. It is the answer to how capital wants, the capitalist system for man and what tasks the school assigns, to play a role in the development of its profitability and in the perpetuation of its sovereignty. BSE shows the way. It illuminates the objectives of government choices in education. His last report, two months ago exactly, entitled 'the future of work in a changing world' says: The automation of routine work requires skills, problem-solving, and they must be renewed all the time. This is because technological changes further reduce the life of skills, which is in two and a half to five years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, then, is the direction given by the Association of Greek Industrialists, and the Government of New Democracy catches it after all the previous anti-educational changes. Changes in school books, such as the removal of literary texts from language and their replacement for small ads, from cooking recipes, what do they prove? That capital prefers clipping, consumable knowledge, such as those of cooking recipes from literary texts, from social sciences, from Darwin's theory, from learning a student or student to explain physical and social laws, to distinguish the objective truth from falsification and to reject false individual truths and irrationality. Do you know why all this? Because at the core of the system, there is the exploitation of the labour force, which requires greater educational speed in obtaining the necessary skills, at the least possible cost for the state. This is why general education tends to shrink through the educational process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u59	One thing, then, is of interest to the bourgeois class, which all of you are willingly serving, the cheap and with end date knowledge, life-long wandering, the turn of the vast majority of young people in training for the future worker, this cheap, flexible and intently afraid...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u60	Mr. Comrade, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...as they speak the tool, accepting, without a second word, to satisfy the desires of the gloomers to increase their profits. To close, Mr President, for the young...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u62	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u63	Let me close, Mr President. I don't take more time than the other guys did. The President may have changed, but I think there must be a relative tolerance. For young people, then, our people, the starting point cannot be the defence of today's school. It's your baby - nourishment. But defending the modern needs and capabilities, which our abstention for all children's cultural rights, is the duty of all of us, the working people's family, with which Mrs. Pipili makes spirals when she hears it, because there is a need and possibility today to reduce students by class, to make permanent appointments of teachers to cover all the gaps in schools and not just 20% of the gaps...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u65	...to adapt the detailed programs and material to cover the learning gaps. But that also requires a struggle in this struggle, the K.C. is willing to give what it needs to give so that these policies can be overturned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the next one wants the time of the previous one, but we will not be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u67	You should understand that for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u68	I saw the last guy who spoke for seven minutes and forty seconds, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u69	Do not be unfair, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u70	If I was unfair, you wouldn't be ten minutes. A communiqué to this House. The Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Environment and Energy and Justice, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, tabled the draft law on 26-7-2021: "Following the Finance Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, the Loan Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic and their Annexes". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are now continuing with Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honestly, sometimes I can't imagine how reactionary you are, Mr. Philly, how reactionary you are, how backward your positions are, how much you want things to stay stuck in something you don't even exist. If you talk to the world, people want an education that will work. He wants an education, and he doesn't want it from the JRC. I must say that I watched...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u72	We need teachers, not monkeys.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u73	I carefully followed Mr. Delia's speech that was excellent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u74	We want personalities, not monkeys, we want people and not robots...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u75	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u76	I am sorry that we disagree on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u77	...and we've proved it. You should say that somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u78	I think that if you could understand that the market is the people, you would make a different match between what we need and what we have. I think that the most important - you are responding mainly to it - a change which brings about today's draft law is, literally, decentralisation and autonomy, which it wants to give to education. I don't know if he'll succeed. I don't know if it's enough, even though we've been ahead for several years, but it takes a few decades, maybe you don't, Mrs. Keramea, make it happen. But, if we succeed, we'll really have changed something very important at the place. It is characteristic and I want to present it, although it exists everywhere, that Greece is the bottom, it is the last country in the autonomy it gives teachers. [[At this point, MP Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're crying, why will teachers be evaluated? What teacher cares about the evaluation? Everyone wants it. They want evaluation through their guts, one can participate in the evaluation of the rest, as is happening everywhere in the world. That's what we miss. This will be achieved and, if we do so, we must apply it rigorously. All right, we'll vote for it. There's no doubt about that. You know that very well. We shall vote for them and vote enthusiastly. The point is to apply it, Minister. In this sense, the fact that we have arrived in the summer to have an integrated intervention on this issue of the quality of education, of course, may be delayed, but the fact that it will start immediately with the new school year is a conquest. Autonomy and decentralisation are the basic tools for teachers to show what they are worth, from what they are really made and to give Greek public education what she lacks. Quarterly trials, educational activities, educational groups, research and practical exercises are all progressive, liberal, new things, which I invite you at the last minute to support. The Greek PISA, as it is called, but the fact that we will all be able to evaluate the system - not come to tell us what our system is, to defend it at last - the fact that we will put a foreign language from the young years in pre-school education - which is crucial, the two years before it begins, the normal school - the fact that at pre-school age we will put English, the skill test, is what will change in the medium term the model of Greek education. The doubling of the pilot and experimental schools is all progressive initiatives, which the majority of today are taking, and fortunately many of them are also supported by another party, which has the experience of both its positive and its mistakes. Parliament will therefore go ahead and support something positive. And it's a pity that you insist on something that is passe, it's outdated, it doesn't exactly go hand in hand with what you're saying. The market is here to control us. It's not a matter of industrialists. What industrials? Industrials make a announcement, three investigations. Do you think industrials determine things?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u79	The White Bible who wrote it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u80	I will tell you from my experience that they identify them much less than the trade unions' reaction that you support. The industry of reaction and regression is, unfortunately, a trade union movement. This will, however, benefit from these changes, because it will now support trade unions who can cope with a competitive system - of course, it will be competitive - but progressive, because it will include knowledge, it will include adaptation to technology. What harm does it have to adapt to developments? It's barely the other way around. What we need, of course - we will agree here, to agree on something - is that there should be basic education, the main body of Greek education. Greekity in education, our basic principles, what our country is and how it goes in other countries. This is basically all and we do not need to take it from any market and from any adaptations. From there on, however, everything else is adaptation, and I think that - thank God - at the moment we have taken this big step. I can't imagine, Mr. Philly, that you don't support the choice of the teaching book, that you don't claim that we need to have more than one teaching book, that a team that picks it up with the Ministry sitting around writing one thing. I looked at the book of political economy a few years ago. I stayed. I said it - because I know most of them -'shuffle'. Small letters, things that a student wants two years to study, make them pass by, don't let them know financially. All this has to change. Education is at the beginning of its great change. Support her to go down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u81	Thank you for the time too. We are now continuing with Ms Maria - Eliza Xenonakopoulou from SYRIZA and then Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution. Please be within time to proceed with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that I cannot comment on the former colleague of the New Democracy, because we have heard that the people are the market and that the market controls us. I would just like to remind you, speaking from the Step of the House, that it is the people's sovereignty that expresses and defines the democratic functioning of a modern European rule of law. Of course, we, as representatives and expressors of this popular sovereignty, are to lay rules and control of the market. Having said this, because I think that here now on the occasion of this draft law on education, but I would say overall from the day after the 2019 elections, every bill that the Minister of Education has made, of course, expressing the basic principles of the Mitsotakis Government, has specific directions. They are all these legislations that have come, which, on the one hand, target and come to weaken public education at all levels, from school to university. It is the widening of social and regional disparities. We have seen this since the first few months in terms of reducing funding, closing university regional departments, when we saw the recruitment of permanent staff frozen and, of course, degrading vocational and technical education. We have seen the purely classic nature of the legislation, which the Minister for Education and the Mitsotakis Government systematically brings. We have, of course, seen, at the same time that all these legislation, like all the economic and social policy of the Mitsotakis Government, ultimately serves particular private interests. That is, in fact, the whole policy of the New Democracy Government has the same characteristics: first of all - our rapporteur, Mr Philadelphia, said so very clearly - it is the complete question in practice and the undermining of the democratic acquis of post-population. The second is that we are seeing a policy which, in all its appearances, comes to weaken the social state, namely the National Health System in the midst of a pandemic, education - typical of today's draft law - the insurance policy by privatising supplementary insurance and gambling youth contributions and questioning the solidarity of generations. So we see a concept of weakening the social state, which is at the same time weakening democracy itself through social rights, through the concept of economic and social democracy and, of course, we have seen the same thing with Mr Hatzidakis' working bill, where he was the clerk of this policy in terms of reducing pay, intensification of work, the conversion of our country into a country of flexible and cheap labour, uncontrolled redundancies without rights. So the reality is that through this policy, which is conducted by the New Democracy Government, we see all these features and at the same time a complete distortion of reality, that is, this propaganda, which the government calls communication policy, but in reality it is a propaganda, which distorts and distorts the concepts and content of politics. In this way, bankruptcy was a second opportunity, in this way the Hatzidakis County Law was empowerment of workers and protection of work, insurance, which starts tomorrow in the summer, when it was deposited in the middle of Friday, was for the new generation a reform, so the draft law we are discussing today told us - and you have put, Minister, this title - that is to upgrade the school and strengthen teachers. It is the complete distortion of all concepts, and finally the decency of the concepts themselves, first of all the reform itself, which is now considered to be deregulation and service of private interests. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of co-existence: is the logic of broadening the inequalities, divisions, discrimination and categorisation strengthened by the school? Is it a strengthening of public school, when we see a draft law, which degrades the school, especially learning about popular families, which ultimately affects the social majority itself? Is school strengthening, when in the midst of a pandemic, in this indiscriminate way of introducing into higher education institutions, twenty thousand children are at the moment excluded and it is the first time that we see there being a joy and a pride from the Minister of Education, because there are so many thousands of job vacancies in the universities? Is that, then, just the strengthening of public school and public university? Is the actual strengthening of the teachers themselves, when you come and reintroduce the most authoritarian, obsolete - because we heard before about outdated logic - of this authoritarian centralized hierarchy within school, the director again who is almighty and devaluated by any concept of collectiveness and school board? Is this the modern concept today of a modern school, which strengthens teachers or is this a punishing assessment - which again in the form of a threat, again, to the threat of disciplinary, which even reaches a loss of wages - and, of course, to suspend any development within the school? All of these are examples of a particular script, which is at the expense of the young, who are affected in every way by the work, educational and insurance precariousness and, of course, a certain perception of the way you govern. I want to close with that, Mr President. When a government - and now I speak in total, from the issues of pandemic to the economy, labour and education - comes and is constantly ruling with threat, with punishment, in the sense of authoritarianism, you believe that this is a government of confidence, that is a government, which is in contact with social reality. No, ladies and gentlemen. When a government governs through the logic of punishment, threat and authoritarianism, in particular, in the issues of education, but also overall, it is a government that is completely detached from the real needs of the Greek people, it is a government that will get the same response from the social majority itself and the young, which is in every way affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u83	Thank you, too. We now continue with Mr. Hetas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution and then with Mr. Miltiades Chrysolallis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. With all due respect and the institutional role of Mrs Makre, as Deputy Minister of Education, I would very much like Mrs Kerameau to have been here. He said he'd watch me, and if necessary, he'll come and answer. I asked her to. In fact, I challenged her to sit here today to answer us, so that the debate we are having can make sense. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. Everyone's up, says whatever he wants, he's gone, he's got it, we're done. You have said many times that it is much easier to be Opposition than to rule. I'll give you a short trip in time, Mrs. Keramea - if you're listening out there - and Mrs. Undersecretary. I'll take you to September 2018. I read statements: "The education of the country, like almost all sectors of the public sphere, has been seriously injured by the disastrous SYRIZA government. SYRIZA withdrew the standards of schools.SYRIZA withdrew the ancient Greek secretariat. “In September 2018, she established an anti-constitutional legal framework for the selection of school directors,” said Kerameos for SYRIZA. Mrs Kyrame, I will tell you a little differently: 'Kritton speaks the slow', and I will explain why. Because they dismantled, as you said, because you had the premiere to take authority then - the standard schools, so that the government could come today and abolish church schools. They, as you were saying, repudiated the ancients. Isn't that what you were saying? But you also do the same of your words. Why? Because the state keeps up with it. They were the ones who blamed for anti-constitutional laws and you introduced the vaccine as mandatory to students, to talk about unconstitutionality. You're the same and we're sorry to say that. You're as dangerous as that on such a sensitive subject. However, how dangerous you are is not enough for us to realize that, no. All those who voted for a New Democracy will have to find out in an election when you said "to punish SYRIZA" for leaving" and you have welcomed him, and the world has honoured him. He punished him to leave, but to see who? How about you? You, the choice of hundreds of thousands of misled voters, who gave your own excellence, Mr Mitsotakis, the opportunity to put tombstones in the future of our children, in the future of all the children of this country? Because you have misled the world as well in the matter of education. Cannabis case of misleading and this should be remembered very well by all the voters, when they go behind this blue parade again to vote next time and remember. If you want to create, Mrs. Keramos, his school yesterday, we will gladly tell you that the Greek Solution wants to create his school tomorrow. That is why we ask all the tones and all the speeches made by the Greeks to trust the only patriotic party in the Greek Parliament and to give us four years to change the place. You dare say that you are upgrading education. The Greek Solution says this very simple, Mrs.Kerameos and Mrs.Macaris: As long as there are students taking courses in containers, as long as there are students teaching in warehouses, you are not entitled to talk about upgrades. It's over and out. This is not populism, it is the raw reality for you and for the previous and previous ones, all those who wanted to change education. You have, indeed, changed education. You've changed her lights! Nothing more and nothing less. You are so obedient to the CDC and the WHO, the World Health Organisation. What do the CDC and the WHO stress there? They stress the need to distance students, so a room necessarily needs to be reduced by students. Question: Have you done something about this for about a year and a half? Let me remind you that you lied to us about the school-graduate average. Were you twenty-eight people talking to us about five-six children with the Greek Statistics, who always have them handcuffed to mislead the world? Tell us the truth. I want an answer from where you are, in your office in the House. Come and answer us why you are closing church schools. We'll understand. Why is this so vivid in what reminds Greece, in what reminiscent of religion? Everything that smells like an ink is chasing it, especially you. It's a reproach against you. In particular, you. Awesome! I'll end up with someone else. Especially, Mrs. Keramemos, you get over yourself every day! Why, Mrs. Keramos, do you want to cut the training into uninvasive students? Today, why is my job as a journalist - at the radio station of Thessaloniki 'FOCUS', a four-year English student, Efi came out and denounced - I take it back - expressed her shamefulness of this girl for this raw blackmail. I am opening introductory terms: "I have no money to run a test every week. I don't have money to run a test, and I don't feel and I'm ready to be vaccinated. How do I get a degree?" he wondered. What are you going to say to that girl? Answer me. It's our girl, our child can be there tomorrow. Answer me. What do you say to that girl, Mrs. Keramos, who reads four years and now it's time for her practice to be done, to get out of the labour market and become part of society? Free education, Mrs. Keramos, is a right that you cannot question. Don't go to school books now. You're changing these? Do the basics and leave the details. School books. Afraid of historical knowledge as if it were a murderous virus. All in the Minutes then, here: "Italy declared us the war and we went to the basement." That's what they write in. That's what they're writing. You blamed SYRIZA for this. You do the same and worse. You should all be ashamed of the government and you who lead the Ministry for what our Greek girls are teaching in school books from unethical texts that offend our history and nation, even texts that promote paedophilia. First high school: "Sakis the electrician, twenty-six years old, who made them with his 15-sixteen-sixteen-year-old student." Is that what our children are teaching? It's a disgrace, a disgrace, a disgrace, a disgrace! I will close, Mr President, one more minute because we are two - three speakers for three days. I'll take one more minute and thank you very much for understanding. This is where I want Mrs. Keramea to come back and answer. We've touched it, but it's obviously not sweating the ear. And not us, leave the Greek solution. It has been touched by fifty Members of the New Democracy, Mr. Macaris, who are here, the Greek Solution, SYRIZA, all of them. We should therefore be ashamed in here that you have hostages for 11 years, two hundred and fifty families of multitude teachers, and you haven't taken care of them since 2010. It's 11 years. They are people who have offered to society, to our home country, to our Greece children, three, four, five Greek birds and you have a commitment there. You don't answer us why you don't hire them. From ten thousand five hundred, you will hire now, as you say - and well you do - you will hire eleven thousand seven hundred and very well. Are there not two hundred and fifty souls, Greek teachers who have been afflicted since 2010, Mr. President, to get in, to work? They offered children to society. Mr Velopoulos told them, our President: "We do not want a vote, we do not want anything. It is a debt to you that you offered Greek women to society." They made hollow promises. Over fifty questions from Members of the New Democracy. Mrs. Macrie, take the floor now. It was your suggestion to Mrs. Keramea. You left it in her office and said it was done. He doesn't. Why doesn't he? What are these people, crooks? Is something wrong that we don't know about? Why don't you hire teachers from two hundred and fifty multitude families and tyrannized them from 2010 until now? Answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u86	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. I asked you the floor, to clarify to those who are listening, and perhaps have the impression that Mrs Keramos would have answered the questions put by my colleague, to clarify that the way in which the debate in plenary is taking place in the Greek Parliament does not allow the Minister to answer any of the Members who consider or may be serious questions which he raises. The Minister will be placed in protology, denology and will answer among you, among other things. I'm finishing by telling you that the Ministry is represented, I'm the State Secretary responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u89	I think it was self-evident. You didn't have to. We continue with Mr Miltiadis Chrysolas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, it is not difficult to understand, hearing your positions, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you have no contact with society, no contact with reality and common sense. Society also found it in the four and a half years of your governance. It is not unreasonable that this bill focuses on the question of the evaluation of teachers. Only the notion of valuation on criteria of educational work and the value of the teacher, as well as the consequent reward it gives you ideological nausea. We understood it when you legislated in 2015 the decoupling of the selection of directors from the evaluation, as well as the reasonable collective self-assessment that you established in 2017 in the form of dialogue with all the teachers and not a substantial crisis. Have you ever seen an evaluation where the assessor is also an evaluator? Only the "first time left" could have thought about that. You have converted the evaluation into a discussion group, colleagues of the SYRIZA. Why? Because very simply, you don't want the evaluation, you don't want the recognition of value, you don't want the reward, you don't want the improvement. All you want is leveling down. You serve consciously and ideologically, I recognize that. Societies have understood that in the years of your administration. So you come to tell us today that we are reintroducing the management state, the director of bamboo, who will place his own partners and manage the school at the dock. You forgot, of course, to tell us that we choose to institutionalise the interconnection of evolution to the extent of the head of the school with the evaluation, which you abolished and selected the managers, with only the criterion of their years of teaching and at the same time without distinction and wrote in the oldest of your shoes the Council of State and its decisions, which told you that this is unconstitutional and ruthlessly abolishing the constitutional principles of equality, dignity and impartiality. Who? You who would theoretically be "the every word from the Constitution". Do you remember that nice one? So you are giving us a resignation today because we are restoring the logic of genuine recognition of the work of our teachers. Because we restore recognition of their skills and qualifications and reward them through evaluation. Because we are giving, through training, to those of our teachers who have not done well in evaluating the possibility of becoming better and equally claiming their development. You are absolved by your hooks and your ideas, because instead of levelling, we enable our teachers to recognize their value and enable them to grow. That's who you are, and that's who we are. That's our main difference. We believe in social elevation while you are at a level downwards. In the absolute poverty of your arguments, in your weak memory and in your inability to understand what society is asking for, and even your voters are asking for, you have devised nonexistent arguments and turned to unthinkable characterisations against the Minister. Open your eyes and see that what we do is bring the school back to the function that he deserves and that you had unconstitutional and undemocratic interruptions. We do not say so, the Council of State says so. We give real autonomy to the school units and we remove the Ministerial Nurse that you had worn them. Do you know how many school managers have been looking for themselves and have they obtained donations in previous years? There are too many of them to improve their schools' conditions in towns with little financial potential to ensure resources for school activities. That is what we are doing, therefore, in order to help these teachers, who really care about their units. We improve the way in which we teach and give creativity to our teachers, because we trust them, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because they have shown that they can adapt and deliver under any conditions, as the pandemic has shown. We trust them and give them the possibility - and the right - that you have removed them - to be evaluated for their skills and be rewarded for them. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I did not expect that so many populist krone will be heard on the subject of minimum import bases from the Officerate. Mr. Phils called the slayer the Minister. Mr. Tsakalotos, the worst minister in the last two hundred years. This, on the occasion of the letter of protest by candidates, who wrote excellently, was not able to enter their first choices. But why? Because they didn't catch the basis set by the schools themselves for the special selection courses. They didn't stay outside the university. I repeat, they didn't enter their first choice schools. But is that not, in the end, the logic of the system of pan-Hellenic examinations, that is to say, that students should compete, as we as students did, and that they should enter the schools that always want their performance? The logic of the minimum import base is at last to give the essential autonomy to our universities to define as one point the grading significance of the necessary courses based on the subject of the school. What's wrong with that? We heard infinite accusations, even ridicule, but no one said anything about those children who, in the midst of a pandemic, took the minimum import base and entered schools that they wanted. And there are thousands of these kids. So what do you want? Obviously, you want us to level it all down, that's what you want. You have had your margin to level them and you have done it, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and this society has understood that. We have made our promise to society, to our fellow citizens that things will change and become fair, respected and impartial. And we keep that promise. For us excellence is not a reciprocity. That is why we are reintroducing, strengthening and multiplying standards and experimental schools. We want a very good public school, which will give our children the necessary knowledge, as opposed to you who leveled it. Because for us the very good public school is a social mobility strap, an elevation strap for any child, no matter what financial capacity he has behind him. With this bill, the government, the Ministry, Mrs. Kerameos, Mrs. Makre, Mr. Syragos supports and improves the public school. That's what we're going to do. That is why we made four and a half thousand permanent recruitments in special education in 2020, and this year we proceed to eleven thousand seventeen hundred permanent appointments in general education, because we want teachers, we want infrastructure, we want public education. If you are looking for, Mr Tsakalote, the worst minister of the last two hundred years, look at your sidelines, look at the decisions of the Council of State about your choices, look at the establishments with simple modifications of dozens of academic departments, without even the hope of functioning, just to make fun of the voters of your constituency. We won't join you in the field of populism you've set up. We will continue to stick to our election commitments. We have received this mandate from the Greek people and we are very much observing this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u91	We are now continuing with Mr. Konstantinos Zourari from SYRIZA. Then there's Mr. Markopoulos and Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u92	What time are we going?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u93	What time are we going?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u94	By Mr. Boomba, we're going. Mr. Zuraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u95	Mr. President, my respects! Now that I've been following this incredible New Democracy Vulgata for the last draft law, I remembered my own: "And the impunity of names in the works have exchanged justice." Autonomous, he says, he's the manager. And all of a sudden, basically, I remember disciplinary departments. I remember disciplinary orders. The monochrome, the one-faced director, who changes what he wants, does what he wants, goes where he wants. The evaluators, one controls the others and all the students. The students every three months take lessons and don't take lessons again. The other director, he's going out as an agent to get money from outside to bring in and of course get rid of the wealthy multinational corporations there, put the books on him. And well, the man who's in central can find money and sponsors. The other director in Glory Dramas, Krya Vrisi, in Kolopetinica, where will he find sponsors? Our job is to teach the teachers. I, too, have been a years of evaluator at universities outside, etc., always collectively. Between us we talked and came, and the students judged us, judged, and so forth. What's this story about the evaluator who comes with the molecules he gives? You have unbelievable the impunity that you have exchanged, justice, as you will. Suddenly you returned to a school in Dickens in the 19th century. They are essentially disciplinary classes, reformers, which, of course, also act as agents in private follow-up. Because with eight thousand molecules you're out. With 8,000 euros you're in the predators and you pay your time, your lessons. If you want, go. If you don't want to, you don't go. I don't know? Seventy-five years I've been in the cobblestones and this way. You pay whenever you have to. You go watch if you want. And in two years, you're asking to join the Technical Chamber and be professional with others who've been studying five years. This is the predator situation. The college predator! That makes your bill. But, of course, because the fish is frustrated with the head and exuberant, because he is your leader, to remember what he said. Oh, yes, because the problem, of course, is equality, equality in the eight thousand molecules you're outside, but with the 8,000 euros you're inside. That's equality. Because your great squirrel-flying leader, with the squirrels, throwing away every little bit of it. He told us upstairs a long time ago. What did he say? 'Social equality', says, 'is against human nature'. That's right, word to word. 'Social equality is against human nature'. That is, the Anthropology professors of social anthropology, Aristotle, Marcel Moss, Melanie Klein, have finished. Did not the professors and founders of the Anthropology of Social Affairs realise that there is no equality and that is nothing but nature? Seriously, huh? Sociologist Mitsotakis makes a great sociology. It says: like fingers are not equal, so - he says - there is no equality. That's his sociology. "After any unscientific" (E,7), mine! "After any unscientific" your Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister. One is the equality clause. Because equality is not biological, it is not gene. Equality is socio-political, although, of course, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights also recognises a gene. He says people are born free and equal rights, equality. Equality is only natural, however, Mitsotakis says. That's where your bill starts. Because what did the top say? That there is no equality. To end, anyway, let's find out, write it down. In F, the clause on equality science has been said once and for all. Aristotle and the others have said it before after I mentioned it to you, Melanie Klein, and so on. It is the following at F', 38.5 of my own: 'How fair these non-respectful of them'. "These" are in the plural, so it's social, it's multi-social. It's not individual. 'How can they not be justified in law?' Of course, I would ask the President to show a guilt because he will be involved in the tolerance that he will give me for a while to finish. Relapse to the despotic. That's where your Prime Minister ended it. Because I'm going to read you one of some excerpts of 1668, and I'm going to remember the old rocky, my own. It's 1668 from Paros and here's what it says. It's a municipal song in an 11-symbol iambic. “And he leaves Chania and escapes to the Despotikos to find him. And Kaplan always worships him. And in the Despotics he played a plaque. In Bezo, in his canniski project.’ For suddenly the serpent suddenly ate in the sacred temple of Apollo lobsters and in the dessert we had the flow of Bezos. That's what your Prime Minister teaches. That's the problem with culture. After the unbelief and the unpopularity?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u96	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Dimitrios Markopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u97	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zouraris has shown an amazing attitude, despite the mobility of political actors, which he has seen in recent years. In common, what the people say "My same Pantelaki, my same Pantellis". We have heard them both in 1980 and 1990 and in 2000 and in 2010. But let us know that we live in the twenty-first century. Do you know who the twenty-first century is? The 20th-century digital one. A century of reversal and a century of change. As much as he wants, for obvious micro-political and micro-political reasons, the Acoustic Opposition to present the evaluation of teachers as something that is hard neoliberal, extreme right or possibly classic, obviously forgotten earlier attempts that had moved in this direction and apparently works again with the well-known left-hand chips of other times. I'm talking about draft laws and presidential decrees, which were already in existence, were left on paper, and that's what you know why? At the expense of the popular reaction. We here - to make it clear - are not just to discuss. We are here to plan, implement and proceed with action. Produce work. So let me remind you, to refresh your memory, that corresponding actions had been taken in 1984. In 1988 Andreas Papandreou, your Chief, swears in his name. There had also been similar procedures by the government in 1992 and 1993 and we remember the popular reactions of the time. Because you played it and the new page PASOK remind you that corresponding actions for the evaluation of teachers had been in 1997 and 1998 and 2002 with PASOK governments - you want to join them, but I do not see you applauding their policy - and in 2013 policies, which have again tried to talk about the evaluation of teachers. We must therefore - and for historical reasons - recognise to these earlier governments the efforts and the determination, even if it did not go ahead, that the health system has many problems. But we are not credentials and you've understood it in a series of bills, in a series of reforms, we're here to give solutions. We must move away from mystical trade union reactions, which have not allowed or actually prevented progress. Often, you left-wing left-wing opposition are invoking the Greek people with a great ease. So, let me tell you what the simple Greek says, let me tell you. We need to improve our training system. It says so. He needs an evaluation. Mr. Philie, you, too, as a competent Minister, fall off the clouds when we talk about teachers, who may need help. Potentially, they're working wrong within the ranks. Do you, a man, who has played your own struggles - from your time - that all teachers are excellent? A help offer, a new know-how doesn't need it? You are a man - I want to believe - of the world, of the people. What does the people tell you? Move to the people. So the people say all teachers are excellent, are they all perfect? Everything burned in an excellent way? Do you fall off the clouds when you learn that our teachers have weaknesses and that we need these weaknesses to improve them? Not in a punishable way, but to improve them. Do you fall off the clouds when we talk about the need to improve study programmes? For behavioral problems within classrooms? I remember, in my own school years - it is the years of the '80s and early '90s, I am at the same age as your Chief Tsipras - that there were teachers who escaped in the course. Any trouble with them, any care? Not for their punishment, to tell them that there are new methods. To talk to them about the student's psychology. For the fact that there should not be a bowling even by the teacher, even by the professor. Give them a second chance. So we hear criticism of why the bill comes in the summer and under pandemic conditions. Take the ham, the political catacomb is over. With the Mitsota government political delays and throwing the ball into the platform there will be no. “We have a clear plan, clear view, and through the government majority, which the Greek people have given us, we will promote it, you do not want. You know what? These delays we have to fight them, not for anything else, but because our children, your children, can't wait any longer. They've been waiting for 40 years. We live in the 20th century of the digital age, a new revolution, and you are still talking about the Arab. I did not hear any suggestions from you, I did not hear any coordinates. I hear the feeling. It says: 'the student who did not pass'. Again, the same patents. A student who didn't go to the school he wanted, even though he could go to other schools and suddenly, you flag him. For years, therefore, in Greece stagnation has been an option for disaster. Maintaining those from the digital century evolved into your own political sacred diaspora. The coalition, which - you were supposed to be against the guilds - prevailed on your own responsibility. So that's what we come as a New Democracy to change. Those of you who defend the base of 1, 2, 3, 4 are feeling well? Is that the school you want? I can't believe it. I see many of your own colleagues from your children who are excellent. What do you stand for, the zero effort? Can I tell you something else? Rethink it, all measurements show that your own political audience of 55.7% in the last measurements of those who voted SYRIZA - let us. You, your political interest, do you know what he says? He's talking about the minimum import base. Why are you turning your eyes elsewhere? Listen to your own voters. Seven out of ten are in favour of this specific educational reform. We are therefore talking about a modern school, we are talking about implementing new curricula. Are we falling off the clouds for the adoption of English? What planet do we live on? We live on a global planet, the demands are high. We're talking about developing new skills for the recruitment of thousands of teachers. We are talking about PSAI standards, when your own officials in the Perama area, where I am dealing with, while a Ionide, say this, - as far as the PSAs are concerned, 1,3 million euros will be given, new specialities will come in - stone this reform. We're giving a model school to the hardest, most affected area, and you don't want that. Even that, you're firing it. At a time when the future cannot wait, we must move forward. Every lost opportunity is a defeat not for us, as a generation of parents, but even worse, it is a defeat at the expense of the future of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u98	Just, Mr Marcopoulou, don't confuse the transcripts of people with parties many times. Transcriptions become left and right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u99	...football.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u100	That is why soccer politics has become a problem. We continue with Mr. Georgios Kamin from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on public education in our country is generally dominated by organisational issues and not by the essence, that is, the content and quality of public education. As in tertiary education, we are introducing laws for the distribution of small and large powers in the educational system and we leave to the margin the orientation that public education should have in the third decade of the twentieth century, where developments, due to digital technology and artificial intelligence, run at a glossful rate. The great problem of public education in our country, as is the case with other serious issues, is the lack of long-term planning, which will be binding on the political forces and will be implemented regardless of the government. This, of course, presupposes that the bill will be the product of institutional dialogue with the political forces, the scientific unions, the representatives of teachers, so that a climate of consensus and long-term agreement can be established in the exercise of education policy. When we talk about reform, it must necessarily be time-consuming and this requires consent of the political forces at least in the miniatures. For a more detailed analysis of the positions of the Change Movement, the special speaker Dimitris Konstantopoulos has already spoken in detail. For my part, let me turn to a number of issues, as long as the limited time allowed. I am counting on the positive effects of the bill on the placement of those responsible for primary and secondary education in some thematic areas, such as information technology, new health, environmental education and school guidance technologies. There could also be responsibility for the fight against school bullying, not just for the vague provision of Article 39 of Law 4692. It is also appropriate to define Article 33 for the definition of specific interview criteria, for its recording and for the case study by a predetermined topic bank for the selection of regional directors and primary and secondary education managers. A case study chosen by a topic bank could also be included in the selection process of school unit directors. On the positive side is the provision of the choice of the teaching book at each lesson from teachers in the school unit. A good thing is the placement of a pedagogical counsellor - mentor for the guidance and support of the teacher. This is a provision that also existed at Law 3848/2010. As far as the provisions of the evaluation of staff and teachers in primary and secondary education are concerned, we are in favour, not only of persons, but of structures, procedures and programmes of study. The evaluation of the training staff is not, of course, carried out for the first time by the draft law, which we are debating today. It was already provided for in Law 2525/1997 with Minister of Education, Gerasimos Arsenis, as well as in Law 2986, Minister of Education, Petros Efthymou, a law which incorporated seventeen rating indicators according to OECD directives at that time. Finally, at Law 3848/2010, Anna Diamantopoulou has again become a structured effort to establish an integrated evaluation system. As to the last law, it is worth noting that the New Democracy had voted against him. Today, of course, he comes and adopts, he almost copys many of his predictions. The evaluation procedures had also started on the Minister of Foreign Affairs Andreas Loverdus in 2014. Why, in fact, no evaluation system was implemented in practice is another story. We will vote in favour of these provisions, although they are 'collapsible' provisions. They have a minimal effect on the course of the teacher, on his evolution, on graduation or on wages. Suffice it to take a look at Article 78, which says very briefly, almost as if evaluation were to be taken into account in the selection procedures for training staff and could also be taken into account in other training procedures. Twenty-two pages for evaluation, eighteen articles, and we are essentially in this 'collaps' evaluation, which the legislator does not dare to draw the conclusions that must be drawn. Why do I insist on that? I insist because I believe in the public sector and in order for there to be a worthy public sector, it must be of value. And worthless executives without evaluation we can't have. This is not only the case in education. It applies everywhere to the entire public administration. Although two years have passed, the National Education Council, which had been abolished by the previous government, has not been re-established and a position of regional quality supervisor of education has also been established, which you are equipped with superpowers. In fact, they are not quality supervisors, but they are Commissioners of the Ministry. You are adopting an extreme hierarchical and centralist logic and, in fact, disciplinary powers both at the level of regional supervisor and at the level of the quality supervisor of education and, unfortunately, at the level of the quality of training, you leave it at their discretion, without the slightest prediction of reinstatement of the regional training centres, which had been abolished by Law 4547. Changes in the composition of the school boards have been discussed and analysed for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a public school which will be a factor of social mobility. We want a public school manipulated by the suffocating central control of the Ministry of Education. We want a public school, in which high-quality teachers will work, which will exercise their duties conscientiously and with the full support of the state. We want a public school, which, at its heart, will have the student and basil unit as a cell of educational activity, a public school with empathy, which will promote democratic values and combat all forms of unfair discrimination, racism and intimidation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. We are now continuing with Mr. Loverdos, then with Mr. Thraniotis, Mr. Boutsicakis, Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Vassiliadis, Mr. Igoumenides, and we are closing with Mr. Bouba. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although it is quite late - they are almost midnight - I would like to say that I am pleased that today the debate on a bill, which is fatal to give rise to political and ideological controversy. These are issues that we find opposing and debate and disagree. That is what we have to disagree on. It's not the pandemic. Once again, I appeal to all of Parliament's wings on the management of this unprecedented health crisis which our country and the world are going through to show greater responsibility. It is not a matter of party controversy that the management of our pandemic, which costs our fellow citizens lives. With regard to this bill, which comes to upgrade public school and public education, the big question that needs to be asked is: Is school after 1974, a period during which the left ideas prevailed fully in our country for many decades, better than it was before? I, as I imagine a lot of people in this Chamber - like my friend Mr. Friend - went to school on junta and we met the big mistakes made by the dictatorship system and we knew the extreme way the inspector was doing many times in schools. We knew the exclusion of worthy teaching from the public education system. I, for example, had to go to a private school where I learned letters from left-wing teachers such as Costas Summertimer or Nestor Bouras, to whom I owe great gratitude, but they were excluded from the public education system. As also, there was an attempt to reproduce the dominant dictatorship ideology in those years. This clearly had to change - and it has rightly changed - but I fear that after 1974, since the institution of the authoritarian inspector, we have reached the very opposite end. We've reached the full bump in the whatever we want to do. This has led, in my opinion, to the deterioration of public school. It has led to a public school in which our children do not learn letters, not everything, of course. Too much is needed, but basically no one can get the graduation from high school without having learned too much about it, which will be useful in life and will be a better person for our society, for his family and friends and acquaintances. I wonder if the Left is satisfied with the level of public education in our country today. Most of us aren't and we want to make it better. We want to do it better for the benefit of the students. The students are the crown of the system. They are neither teachers nor parents nor politicians nor journalists nor any of them. Our students, our children, are above all. These need to learn letters. And when I say "writings" I mean not only learning parrot, but to acquire morality, education and education. This is trying to change the specific bill brought by the Government of New Democracy. Is he gonna make it? This is another conversation. It is another thing to vote for bills and other things to be applied in practice, because in practice people are implementing them. But that's the promotion of the bill. I will be standing - because I do not have much time - on two issues, on which I have seen too much reaction from the opposition: evaluation and the manager. Is there any, dear friends of SYRIZA and the Left, any area in our lives in which we are not evaluated? Is there a worker anywhere that can't be evaluated? I'm thirty-five to thirty-six journalists. I've been accountable all the time, and I've lost my job, and I've been fired from work, because the evaluation of AGB's machines was not very good, and I've been thrown away from work, like too many other private workers. Is there any politician who can't be evaluated when elections are held? If it doesn't work out, the voters are sending him home, and they're doing well. This is life, a continuous evaluation, a constant evaluation. I wonder why public officials or some of the civil servants do not want to be evaluated. Since I do not want to level, not all civil servants are themselves, I say that there are rateable and important public officials and public teachers. I will agree with Mr Kamine, who has listened to him before. The attempt to evaluate this bill is hesitant, in my view, cowardly. I wanted it more substantial and more important for the public education system. But you have to understand, Mr Kamine, that even this hesitant - as you said it - is an evaluation, look at what the reactions are causing. Step by step. We cannot go once and for all, although I would agree with you that should be done. The same goes for the head of school. So why does there have to be someone who controls what's going on inside the school for the school manager? Aren't there managers everywhere? Is there a business, a service, a company anywhere where there is no director, who decides and controls and exercises management? There's nowhere in any area of our lives. Why shouldn't there be in school? It's the manager who's gonna determine things when they're right there. I remember in the newspapers I worked - and I worked in the best newspapers in Greece - the highest executives. We've been telling our opinion, and the principal has decided. That's how it's supposed to be. It can't work differently. We want good teachers, we want good school managers, we want a good public education system above all for the good of our students and our society. Because, above all, they are our children, the next generations, in which we all look forward, and I hope that we will agree on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u104	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Emmanuel Thraniotis from SYRIZA and Mr. Boutsikakis, Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Vassiliadis, Mr. Igoumenides and Mr. Boubas are prepared. Here, Mr. Thraniotis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, Mr Loverdos, has put me in a temptation by saying: 'Is there anyone today who is not assessed?' I will agree with him, but when you pay someone, Mr. Loverdo, how do you expect him to assess you? What grade do you expect him to put? Good? Moderate? Bad? In any case, with this draft law, if we were really interested in the upgrading of the school, we should start with the opening of schools in September. In what health conditions will they open? With what health insurance? With what coverage of the educational and pedagogical psychological needs of children caused by the pandemic and especially its tragic failed management? We are the country where schools have been closed longer than throughout Europe. The school year that passed, under conditions of pandemic, was for the entire educational community and for the families of the students, the most unpredictable and the most difficult year. It was a Golgotha, who each step kept an unpleasant surprise. It was opened by the school, the crowding in the rooms, the masks - parachutes, without means of distance education, with the absence of practical exercise in special courses, and others were problems that, in general, affected the psychology of students. Even more surprising, however, was the government's decision to change the import system, introducing the minimum import base, in the middle of a pandemic, for the first time in history in the middle of the school year, by applying a system of exclusion of candidates, irrespective of their performance. The recent results of the pan-Hellenic examinations have shown that these negative factors, together with the minimum import base, have created and will create failed masters in the future, which will not be introduced into the schools they want. At the same time, the result and the disastrous consequence of the minimum import base is the creation of about twenty thousand vacancies in universities, which will be allocated exclusively to the regions of the region. In this way, excellent regional departments will be stigmatized as failed, as will excellent students. Parts will be led to shrinking and closing for colleges. It is known that student choices due to the economic crisis are made on the basis of distance from home. They prefer large urban centers in particular, since there is little student care, such as free accommodation, food and student mobility. A characteristic example is the Department of Administrative Science and Technology of the Hellenic Mediterranean University in Agios Nikolaos, Crete, which covers all academic criteria. It has a modern curriculum with professional prospects of graduates, based on digital transformation, which will be the subject of a free postgraduate degree in the department. Its graduates are highly absorbed -88% - on the labour market, according to a branch survey in 2019. It also has excellent infrastructure and facilities and produces a very high level of research. The section also operates important research structures such as the three of the five institutionalised research laboratories and the Institute for Economic Analysis, Entrepreneurship and Tourism of ELMEPA, a useful tool for tourism policy. Unfortunately, you have not taken any of this into consideration. You are implementing a well-processed and orderly plan by cutting expenditure on public education, with the sole aim of reducing it, excluding financially weak from public education, increasing inequalities and strengthening the private sector. He refers to the promotion of a college in his ad. Architectural curricula are recognized as professional equivalent to university equivalents. It is what you have voted for, the equalisation of professional rights for colleges and university schools. Knowledge of linear design or free design is considered an important qualification, it says in its advertising, but it is not a prerequisite for registration - an introduction to the program. The answer of Mrs. Minister at Dionysia, in Myrtos, to so many other candidates who have been left behind, but who have been cut off, and what is not a prerequisite for college, as is the answer that last year would not even enter because others have written better, is a fat lie, but at the same time, at the same time, an insult and a disgrace to the efforts of the candidates. With regard to this draft law, in more than two hundred articles as a whole, I would point out that it shifts responsibility for the chronic deterioration of the public school to teachers, students and parents. While you are talking about freedom and autonomy, you are essentially weakening all collective expressions and strengthening mono-faced institutions and positions fully controlled by the central government. The strict hierarchical administrative structure along with the system of punishing assessment is intended to control all teachers by returning inspection to class. What really is the reason for the absence of elected representatives of the educational sector from the training crisis processes, if not the complete control and decommissioning of the administration by the persuasive members of the party mechanism? The compulsory participation of the teacher in the self-assessment process of the school unit with threats to non-wage development and withholding its wages only do not constitute autonomy. You are terrorizing teachers, because memories of the successful strike - abstention declared by OLEME for the self-assessment of the school unit, with teachers turning the back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask for a moment, Mr President. Educational evaluation and training are necessary, as long as they are not linked to the disciplinary control of teachers, as long as they are not used as an alibi to hide ministerial responsibilities and transfer decades of weaknesses to teachers, as well as to ensure the active and collective participation of teachers. Where school community support is transferred from staff to a multidisciplinary group, with participation in programming, feedback and evaluation of the educational work of schools of all the members of the school community, which operates as a community of composing knowledge and skills and composition of scientific fields. Instead, you are going to be abducted from the education of any democratic participatory process, with the central role assigned to one-faced and one-party audited bodies, such as the director, who has the first and last word at school, with the training advisers, but with the emphasis on the role of the auditor and not the consultant. Back, then, behind happy concepts, at the school of decades past, in inspectorarism and insurmountable competition, which the public school had expelled after the Migration. We seek a school that primarily serves the social needs of society, which provides comprehensive knowledge and not teenage skills, which can cultivate and highlight the special potential of every child, regardless of the income of its family, which facilitates access to knowledge and socialisation and denies exclusions. Education is a social asset to us and not a commodity. That is why the next SYRIZA government will abolish the whole disgusting system that is made with the current bill, beginning with the minimum import base and restoring the injustices you have caused.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u106	Thank you. We continue with Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis from the New Democracy. They are four other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill we are debating today lays the foundations for a modern school. For a school that operates with greater freedom, lasting support and increased accountability. We want the evaluation. We want a high-quality public school. We want students to be distinguished and not everyone equals down. We want innovation and extroversion for everyone. We want our children to have real opportunities for social development. We want to give everyone prospects and supplies for the present and the future. We want to cultivate mutual respect for children, human dignity, democratic education, gender equality and the fight against rhetoric hatred. And here I would like to pause. Mr. Philly, I will give you the opportunity, mentioning your name at the end of my speech, to take a position on an inappropriate, vulgar, sexist, unacceptable, embarrassing political word tweet. A tweet by a member of your staff, which refers to all these designations I told you to a person who is currently in Tokyo and sweats the shirt of the Tennis National Team, Ms. Sakkaris. If you don't know, I'll file it in the Minutes now, take it, see it and take a direct position on it. Because it really doesn't deserve anyone, especially a girl who fights right now. Keep out of the reach and sight of children. It is your strain that made the post and the protagonist in your party videos. So I'll go on and wait for your position later. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel - Christoforos Boutsikakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greece therefore has the lowest index of school autonomy between all OECD countries. In our country more than 80% of the decisions are made at a central level when in other countries this figure is only 35%. Today this is over. We are giving the opportunity to use school facilities and after their operation. We are strengthening the role of teachers in positions of responsibility. We invest in education not in words, but in actions. Eleven thousand seventeen thousand permanent recruits of teachers taking their place in September. At the same time, we are setting up new organic positions of five hundred fifty psychologists and five hundred fifty social workers. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, they cannot study at Greek universities students who want to enter even with the unit. Of all students, 40% never graduated. The result is the illusion that the children were passed to a university, while they were thus wasting time and money, without any reflection. This government creates prospects for the new generation, and society itself welcomes that. I wonder, does it not concern you that seven out of ten people positively see the minimum basis for introduction and evaluation of teachers as positive? Does it not bother you that more than half of your voters, voters of the SYRIZA, support the introduction of the minimum import base to universities? Your populism has no limits. As Mr Tsipras slashed the memorials, so he now promises that once, when SYRIZA governs and is once again Prime Minister, he will bring in - he says - all those who he considers that they were not wrongly introduced into the universities. How low can this political word of the C.E.P. fall? There's no seriousness. Stop playing with the pain of the candidates at last. Stop! Families and children are getting sick. Besides, you'll never be a government again. Your political choice to be critical of what this government does, good or bad - we believe that it is bad - is permanent. Let us remember what your positions and policies were in education in previous years. So you ruled as a synonym of indifference to the new generation, subject to micro-party interests. You abandoned the schools and the universities to the bad guys and the bad guys. You allowed the admission to universities of '0', '1', '2', '3', '4'. You even legislated on importing without tests in green sections, he says. Any Member who passed outside the Minister's office and asked for a section in his region, no matter what the cost and viability of this section, in the light of the votes and the pins, you were making it. Let me not get far, because I respect both time and time. It is time to gather this mess, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in which you have a very large share of responsibility, and education and education and university and schools must finally be created and restructured in the light of the future, the future of children, the future of youth, the future of the country, to build a Greece that is going to take the lead and will not be unheard of in education and research and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u108	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece. Then there's Mr. Vasiliadis, Mr. Igoumenides and Mr. Bubas. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. On the centre of autonomy, the bill marks a new reflection on children's cultural rights. It is built on previous interventions by all previous governments. It leads to the categorisation of schools and pupils, the intensity of their class differentiation, the widening of educational inequalities, the depreciation of the role of teachers, a school of business sponsors, even more dependent on their interests and by suffocating control, through evaluation, as to whether this reaction policy will be implemented. Indeed, the government, the Ministry, the propaganda minister promises to upgrade the school, by stepping on the anguish of teachers and parents, but experience the multiformal degradation of all governments over time. The problem, then, is that your pursuits are against the real needs, the current educational needs of students. It is opposite the needs of the time for a school that will form a whole and give all the supplies to the new man so that he can know the world, stand with confidence, creator and protagonist of social development. The booze used by the government is well known. They are the directions and instructions of the imperialist organisations of the European Union, the OECD, the implementation of BSE requirements and guidelines for a more direct link between the school and the needs of enterprises, that is, on the basis of the relationship between the economy and education. And what are you doing in order to implement these guidelines? Firstly, schools gradually operate in terms of autonomy at all levels, content, finance, staff, which will ultimately be more dependent on resources that will be forced to seek from sponsors, parents, programs and go by saying, by shaping multi-speed schools. Secondly, spending cuts through saving staff, resources and unnecessary expenditure, especially in a phase of capitalist crisis. Thirdly, control at all levels about how and how these directions progressed. This is the actual content of the word 'assessment'. Fourthly, the content of the school focuses on skills learning, based on the requirements and needs of the market, an issue of great importance, because it is directly related to what and how children learn at school. It is about the core of school and especially the period we are going through. It concerns the requirement of the capitalist economy to what man, what a worker should take out the school, so that he is efficient and exploitable, that is, even cheaper for the big capital, so that he accepts the devastated values and thinks they are in his own interest. It means a more immediate adaptation of the school, therefore of the pupils, of the future workers, to the requirements of the capitalist jungle, the job insecurity, the rotation of work, the wages of EUR 400, the 'SURE' programmes, the 'ACT-WORK' programmes, the continuous rotation of work. What does the government say to us, but to those who support this direction? That the skills of lifelong learning in the current system - which have to do with the continuous search for qualifications, certifications, expensive seminars to stay on a job or look for jobs with more chances than his classmate, his friend, his brother - is the answer to the existing need for the worker to study, to renew his knowledge, to love education, science. But here, even the necessary skills needed to be cultivated through school and basically through cognitive objects are not given uniform for all children, the infrastructure is not guaranteed to be taught within the school free of charge for all. Your goal? Submission to the systems of the farm and the employment you are serving. Because, for example, the great hotel owner, who, for ten years now, has been robbing billions of the hotel staff, one should understand it when the staff turns out to work. And this, in order to be inspired by the worker, needs to start from his disciple’s age. It needs, for example, from his early school age to inspire that new technologies and digital capabilities in today's society, capitalism, are a oneway to exploiting the intensity of exploitation, and can free working time and contribute to better working and working class life conditions. And just in a deeply exploited world - which is constantly changing towards the worst for many, namely for those who produce wealth - the knowledge of young people must have an end date, learn of shorts and consumables, rather than gaining a solid educational, theoretical and practical background and school making cheap and easily managed future workers. And it is no coincidence that the bill comes after the eight-hour abolition, the break-up of the insurance, the right to strike and much more. However, for what upgraded truth and quality are you talking about, when 30% of the school buildings are 50 years old and over 70% are cutting off government funds for school shelter, gym has 6% of primary and secondary schools and 22% of high schools, there is 27% of primary schools, a natural science lab has 5% of primary and 26% of high schools? Education expenditure is falling, parents pay out of their pocket 1.2 billion a year in private education, in secondary education at least fifty thousand permanent teachers are employed and not the wandering alternates and, respectively, seven hundred thousand students are in classes of twenty one to thirty students. Will these problems be solved in the so-called ‘assessment’? In fact, it is a modern school that helps students to complete it without obstacles, it is public and free of charge, it has modern infrastructure, workshops, books, teachers everywhere, and it enables students to access sport and arts equally. It is really creative school that gives everyone complete and solid education, develops the personality that gives everyone the necessary background to understand and interpret the world and social development, changes in science and technology, to be able to exploit them for the overall good. It is really a progressive school that does not separate students from their pockets or from sponsors who are looking to find, despite helping them according to their needs, so that everyone can progress. And this very school doesn't bore it, it doesn't oppress them or stress them. This is the school of the future, in a society where man and his needs will be at its centre, socialism. Because no one is unnecessary. That's why he'll offer the students the school they deserve. In addition, experience from the socialist countries and the question of education is a valuable asset and shows the way. We reject the bill, we vote against it. We call on parents, teachers and students to fight it in practice, to resist in every way during the next period, against categorisation that seems to be an easy solution and a step in the interests of the students. Because the starting point cannot be the defence of today's school, but the defence of the modern needs and capabilities that our time gives rise to for the cultural rights of all our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u110	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Vassiliadis from New Democracy, followed by Mr Igoumenides, and we are completing Mr Bubas. Here you go, Mr. Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will try to be brief in my speech, as both the leadership of the Ministry of Education and the honourable Members and honourable Members in the committee responsible have been closely involved in the individual provisions of the draft law on the upgrading of school and the strengthening of teachers. This is another government legislative initiative towards fulfilling the New Democracy's commitment to a modern and upgraded public education, which was a key pillar of the party's election programme in 2019. The main objectives of the draft law are the creation of a school that ensures students and students all the necessary equipment for the present and future and, at the same time, the release of teachers' potential in a context of greater freedom, lasting support and increased accountability. The direction followed by the accelerated Ministry for the New School is the self-contained operational school unit, with enhanced education structures, which will be framed by educational potential, which through a fair and transparent evaluation mechanism will be continuously improved and strengthened. As far as the autonomy of the school unit is concerned, I believe that this is a fundamental reform of a major impact, which will help the educational community and have a direct effect on the educational process. It is not possible in 2021 that the director of a school in the Protestants of Almopia, for example, should require approval from an agency of the Ministry of Athens for any decision on the operation of his school. In addition, the proposed framework solves the hands of teachers and teachers with regard to the same educational process, enabling them to choose the curriculum, with the multiple book, or the way in which they evaluate their students. This also strengthens the institution of the educational establishment, which now has a substantial role within the school unit. This role is further enhanced by the establishment of support bodies for responsibility such as the mentors of young teachers or the interconnectors with the apprenticeship in the ENEGYL. A fundamental position in this draft law is also the framework for the evaluation of teachers. This is a reform that society has been demanding for years and which supports most of the educational community, the teachers themselves and the teachers themselves. The evaluation recommended by the Ministry is of a purely improvement nature, aiming at rewarding teachers for their work and identifying weak points, where there is scope for improvement. This also benefits teachers and trainees. The third pillar of the draft law concerns strengthening the structures of education, which will also help increase the autonomy to which I referred earlier. The responsibilities of the Quality Supervisors of Education for the monitoring of teaching work, which will facilitate early and effective interventions wherever appropriate, shall be increased. Innovative changes are introduced, including the universal implementation of two-year pre-school education, skills workshops and activities in English, training of teachers and new curricula. Also, with the Fifth Part of the draft law, the Ministry is attempting to modernise and organize fully and on a new basis secondary, postgraduate and higher church education. A special postgraduate structure of ecclesiastical education is being established, with the aim of training priests and the upgrading of the clergy, and now clergymen can only be paid by the public if they have a degree from a clergy student school or from an HR school. It is necessary to rationalise the structures of higher ecclesiastical education, but solutions should be sought without the closure of historical schools, but by exploiting them in the above mentioned effort to upgrade the clergy. Thousands of more organic positions are being set up for psychologists and social workers in our schools, so that we can deal with social problems that we see growing. To support the new school, eleven thousand seven hundred new appointments of permanent teachers of general education are envisaged, the first few years after 12 years, which are to be added to the four and a half thousand appointments made last year in special education and education. The Ministry's planning also includes increasing standards and experimental schools from sixty to twelve for 2021, setting up six PSAL models and continuous digital transformation of the educational community's infrastructure, services and skills. This is also another step in fulfilling the commitment put forward by the New Democracy for at least one public model school in each regional unit. This promise, Minister, must be respected. There are still regional units - but we have time ahead of us - which have no model school, such as Pella, from which I come. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly said that education is not a luxury, but is a right. It is a basic principle of the New Democracy that the equal opportunities that public free education can offer are the best and fairest means for social mobility, which will in future ensure social and economic progress for the country, with a focus on innovation. In conclusion, I would like to stress that these reforms are a product of extensive research and methodical analysis of the characteristics of the Greek school and of international trends in the educational process. Our children from September will be able to attend a modern school that follows international standards and ensures them the supplies they will need for the rest of their lives. For all these reasons, I call on the House to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u112	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Vassiliou. We're continuing now with Mr. Igoumenidis and we're going to hang up with Mr. Buba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Sakorafa, who incidentally has honoured, struggling, the colors of the country, if anyone seems responsible for the ERT fiasco in presenting our athletes' efforts in Olympiad, Tokyo. Based on the law passed by the New Democracy for the Final State, ERT's responsibility and supervision have been directly passed to Mr. Mitsotakis' Office. So the question is not whether there is a responsibility, then, but whether Mr Mitsotakis is hiding once again from his responsibilities, this time behind the Japanese director. And I come to the bill after that parentheses. Educational evaluation: Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you give three persons superpowers: School Director, Quality Supervisor, Regional Director. They undertake your policy in schools, mainly responsible for controlling teachers not as teachers, who will help them in their actual work, which is teaching and teaching in class, but as members of a multinational, who must now and then in their lives only consume on a hunt of qualifications. If, in fact, we move on to the photographic provisions of the bill, we will see your real intentions for a directed and ultimately undeclared evaluation. This is the substance of the assessment, which no New Democracy Member spoke of. All those who spoke and tried to say that the educational community and the Left, who cares for the educational community, are against evaluation. I therefore read from the Association of Preschools, which is one of the institutions of the educational community: 'We share the value of evaluation, which is of key importance in ensuring objectivity, providing incentives, continuing and effective training, thus contributing to self-assurance and enhancing the efficiency of education'. Is that what you realize they're refusing the evaluation? They say below, while the kindergartens continue: "In this bill, unlike our positions, the evaluation seems to be under the control of a single representative administrative mechanism, which cultivates compromise and becomes an integral part of a guardianship framework." These are from a piece of the educational community I'm tabling for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The work and days of the government in education are well known. They effectively despise the public school and the quality of the education offered to it, despise the public university and education in it. I'm going to be a little bit on the minimum import base, which's been working a lot. You say these are decided by the schools, you work for a student who failed at his first choice school, etc. Listen to what mocking they're talking about. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. Listen: "The number of students incoming must be based on the real needs of Greek society." "The introduction of a minimum basis can act as an obvious barrier to the training of thousands of students." "But", said the rapporteur of the New Democracy, and the Minister, all of the Members of the New Democracy say, "these schools have decided." They said it today. And what do I read in the text on 24-32021? ‘As regards the decision to introduce a minimum import base, it is a political decision, the costs of which are sought to pass on to the decisions of the central universities.’; Who says that? The county of the School of Mechanical Metalworkers of the National Technical University. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, the Minister is incapable of doing so. Even signatures are gathering online to remove it. Are all these signs of political incapacity? In my opinion, no. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your politics and education has a clear class mark, it has a clear anti-social footprint. You are against public free education, public school and public university. You are opposed to universal access to the conquests of the human mind. For you, this access must be a privilege of a few and this place you serve faithfully with this old expression. Mrs Pipili used, speaking, four words: Class barriers to education. It is not politically incompetent, therefore, but your political choice to exclude thousands of pupils from access to universities. It is not your political inability, but your political choice to degrade free public education. We live this in every aspect of our daily lives, we live in all Greek citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Health: With the pandemic on the rise, with the fourth wave falling, with the absence of the private sector, with the important public sector supplying to date the pandemic, you are talking about the shrinking of public hospitals. We are living it in work, with the unconstitutional abolition of the eighth, with the reduction of wages, with the dismantling of collective agreements. Why all this? Why this attack on society? Because, in my opinion, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the 'Third gates' that you have set in your life to guard with your political choices are the interests of a handful, the interests of the few, the interests of the elites, against the majority of society. That is why we have the gifts to the clinical leaders, so why we have at work the gifts to the Greek industrialists, so why do we have the gifts to the private colleges in education? However - and I am closing with this, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance - the economy, society, the country is no longer able to withstand neoliberal recipes for exiting the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u115	We need another perspective for education, economy, another vision for homeland. We finally need a government that will not play the game of an elite, but of the majority of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u117	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u118	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u119	Be assured that this prospect only the democratic party, only the alliance of the progressive forces, only the Left can secure it for the place and make sure that the second time will ensure it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u120	Thank you. Please, Mr. Booba from the Greek Solution to come to Stepma. He's the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am the last speaker in a bill dealing with the future of the state, our children and our children's children and the next generations. A bill of education, Madam Secretary, always wants philosophy. It's not just technocratic, it's just education bills. Because they have to do with free debate, they have to do and cultivate nature, the nature of children. After all, the word'school' means free, beautiful, fertile conversation in free time, schilling, school. We have made our own proposals as Greek Solution. We have reservations about the multiple book in terms of the production of the teaching work. I also referred to the committee, Madam Secretary, because you are also a legal officer, about what the Minister said, that we are not talking about sponsorship, but about donation. According to the 434- you know - the Civil Code there is not much difference between donation and sponsorship. It's a two-intensive relationship, as long as it doesn't hide a transaction. I say this because, if we go to schools with donations - sponsorships, we will create schools of two and three speeds, depending on where they are. This means that we will not play on equal terms for our children. Because I think, ladies and gentlemen, wherever you belong ideologically, you agree that in knowledge the starting point is the same. With the education and training vehicle at which attitude the student will take, the student is a matter of his own, depending on his own thoughts, his social, economic, biological situation. We're talking about evaluation. It's a modern word, we've said it. There was no such thing as antiquity. Only Thucydides is mentioned somewhere and says he is rated at the 30 - year - old Peloponnese War. It is a modern word from "worthy" and "I say", but this is worthy we have to keep it in our guts since antiquity. I was misunderstood by some who said about the evaluation that is being carried out and is justified by parents and students. But I can't hear about a Finnish model. Or you haven't studied it properly or you say it where it's of interest to you. Today for me is a black day of personal grief for a friend of mine and school teacher, who I lost a few hours ago from Kavala, Lila Kypriotou. He was a deeply politically-occupied person, Madam Secretary, who belonged to you in your ideological space. If you see what messages her students and parents have sent from the years she was in primary school, you will really see that children and parents have the sensor to evaluate their teacher, their teacher. And see what warmth this friend of mine, Lila Kypriotou from Kavala, had to have a meeting on Saturday for those who graduated from the 3rd High School of Kavala twenty years ago! So in the conversations we had with my classmates on Saturday, a few hours before Leela left high, we assessed and remembered our teachers. If they were contagious, if they were good, if they'd been convinced. That is why I say that if we want to expand it according to the Finnish model, then at an open amphitheatre, as the Finnishs do, in the so-called 'population of the municipality' with the connection of citizens, they see the level of students. But, gentlemen, in Finland the child goes to school seven years old, it doesn't go from six. The Prime Minister, who says we have to pass English in kindergarten, because the brain can take foreign languages then, with the same reason the psychiatrists say that from zero to three years old, the main character of the child is over 50% wrong then, it is not deceived during adolescence. Scientific studies are divided. So the Finns give priority to the game. They do not put many tests, because what they answer as an educational system is that "in Finland we are not studying, but we are learning". And the rewarding teacher there, whose average salary is 3,000 euros, has great autonomy. So when we talk about a Finnish system that is reflected in this drawing between the parent and the student, according to the student’s age, his critical thoughts are increasing toward his teacher and teacher. It's the most democratic system, it's the idea. He knows how to judge the student and the student his teacher. And this has started in so-called 'future schools', with a democratic ideal, whether in Iton you are in Boston or Finland. From that point on, however, when the evaluation is carried out by a director, a deputy director, a mentor of school counselor, who will have a concentration of powers, the teacher can now be dealt with by a Cretan according to the character, authoritarian, arrogant. The great Socrates said: "This sin is the giving; not the ones that see it; and not the ones that do not see it." So it's the same sin to give someone you don't have to do not give to the one you have to. That is what we need to see, because education is equal to philosophy. And that's what we were talking about in committee. It's not about pushing you into the schoolhouse. The point is to take you to your head's doorstep, said Halil Gibpran. And that's concise, what we deliver to our children, so that it's not a silence to try. And I'm going to church education. I have heard the representative of the Church, but here I have to tell you - and I shall present them in the Minutes - Mrs. Undersecretary, I also address Mrs. Kerameos and you, of course, representing the Ministry, that the merger concerning the High Church Academy of Thessaloniki and the Ioannina - I have the minutes and the letter sent by the Holy Synod to Mrs. Kerameos - does not agree. It's the one. I don't have time to tell you, but here's what he says? "The Holy Synod points out the important offer at the highest church academies", and says, "the programme is not, in the opinion of the Holy Synod, an upgrade of the highest church education". The Holy Synod disagrees, does not agree, and there are the minutes that I shall be tabling. You want as a journalist I tracked them down? As a journalist. These will be tabled to see that the Holy Synod disagrees with the closure of the highest church academy and the Greek people must know. And I will repeat what my fellow Member, Mr Hetas, said. Kostas Karamanlis' Law 3255 gave privileges to two hundred and fifty luxuries to be appointed. Dr.3448 came with Mrs. Diamantopoulou in 2010 he abolished these privileges and promised them. You're hiring a lot of people, and good for you, but take these two hundred fifty souls, which you know, Ms. Macarry, my Undersecretary, and I believe in your skills, as well as many of your fellow Members have sent letters to Mrs. Keramea, who has overcome all legal obstacles from the Legal Council to hire them. And the second major injustice is for those who have given examinations from the Higher Staff Selection Council and they have succeeded. It is a social matter with our compatriots, who are not appointed to the courts, while those who appealed in 2008 are appointed. Why? And now the rest of them are appealing. Aren't we in the rule of law? Do they have to resort to justice? I close with a song that is from the seventh art, the black-and-white Greek cinema and the film "The wood came out of heaven". "Sunday, celebration and school should have been the week all." We're looking for this schill in education, this restless, this merciless, because the school really has to be a schill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u122	It's just, Mr. Boomba, that we attend all the decisions of the Holy Synod.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u123	Here it is, Mr President. I filed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u124	I'm telling you, all the decisions. It doesn't just make one. He's got one last. It comes out on all matters. The Holy Synod makes various decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u125	I am talking about the subject, Mr President, concerning the church academy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u126	Okay, good. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S3-commons.u127	With the consent of the House at no time 0.41 the sitting for Tuesday, July 27, 2021, at 9.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Reinforcing the school, strengthening the educational and other provisions".
