ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 20 January 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelos Apostou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Preparation for the issues of the common agricultural policy of the new programming period". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 319/18-1-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Independent taxation of newspapers of medical staff hospitals, health centres, EKAB and all health establishments". 3. The question by number 316/18-1-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The problems faced by students of artistic schools." 4. Under No 307/18-1-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Definition of the precariousness of the appointed municipal officials by notice 3K/2018 of ASEP". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 314/18-1-2021 topical question by Pella, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of the Almopeaus dam (Kales)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 320/18-1-2021 is a timely question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘A risk of unfair taxation on grounds of non-recovery of the agreed limit of e-commerce’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Definition of the range of hayalitis in the maritime region of Ionian and Ionian Islands up to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese". Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the debate be held at two sittings today, Tuesday 19 January and Wednesday 20 January 2021. In today's sitting they will be given the floor in addition to the rapporteurs and the special speakers, as well as the ministers, and a circle of speakers who will be engaged in a natural presence. This cycle will include twelve speakers, five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. Two speakers are proposed by teleconferencing service. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the same ratio as I mentioned to you, that is, a total of thirty-six Members today. With regard to Wednesday's second session, it is naturally proposed that two circles of speakers should take part. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the same proportion of the parties. Parliamentary Representatives may be posted whenever they so wish in the two-day debate. At the end of the sitting, a roll-call vote will be followed on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law provided for in application of Rule 27(1) of the Constitution and Article 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I think I have the unanimous agreement of this House. Does the House agree with the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before the first rapporteur, who is the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Hatzidis, starts for fifteen minutes, like the others, the Minister has asked the floor for two-three minutes to make a statement. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is a special honour for me on behalf of the Mitsotakis Government to recommend to the national Parliament this legislation. It is, as you know, the first extension of the national space since 1947. It is an area of ten thousand seventy-nine square kilometres and, if anyone adds the closure of the tricks, it is more than thirteen thousand square kilometres. If one takes into account - I tell you as a feeling of size - that the country as a whole is about thirty-five thousand square kilometres, the size of that area is also perceived. It is also extremely important that - as in the clearest way, it has emerged in the committee - this legislation is accompanied by the proper support of the national Parliament's political forces. I therefore believe that the moment has a historical element and I would like to thank the parties, Mr President, for their cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, could I have the floor too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor. What would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I just wanted to ask you when the procedure is to be completed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u8	Fat, Mr. Catrugale, making a calculation, about 19: 00 to 20: 00. We're talking fat. Mr Anastasios Hadjivassiliou, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here you are, Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a historic bill. Today we have a draft law with which Greece, for the first time, extends hiyallitis zone to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea region of Pelagos from the northern islands to the Peloponnese Tinaro. Why is it a history? Because we are increasing national sovereignty by peaceful means. And we increase it to a very important part of the marine space. So, basically, our country is growing. The extension of the gynaecitis zone is carried out in accordance with Article 27 of the Constitution, as it concerns a change in the boundaries of the territory and a law is therefore required to be passed by an absolute majority of all Members. And that is precisely the procedure that is being followed today by this bill. This bill is also a historic one, because it has the support of the majority of our country's political forces. Today that Greece has Turkish reformism against it, the political world sends out a message of unity, sends a message of consensus, and this was seen by our meetings in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, where all our colleagues together had a fruitful dialogue on the basis of ideas and arguments. The New Democracy welcomes the responsibility with which the parties approach this historic bill of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This legislation can serve as a basis for further developing national understanding in the big, critical national issues. The Government's decision to extend to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea now marks a major political development. The foreign policy of our country leaves the period of inertia and becomes particularly dynamic. Greece exploits, for the benefit of the national interest, all the possibilities that International Law gives it, and so the expansion of the waters in the Ionian Sea comes as the final act of the settlement of the loose ends in the region, and the recent Agreement on the demarcation of marine life between the Treasury and its Italian counterpart, which is why the time is the most appropriate time. At this point, I would like to point out that with our neighbour Albania, we have decided, after many ruthless efforts, to refer the issue of EEZ and the shelve to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. This strengthens confidence between the two countries and thanks to the manipulations of the government, the way opens for a new era in relations between Greece and Albania. Today's bill is founded on the Convention of the Law of the Sea. Almost twenty-five years after the ratification of this Convention, our homeland is literally applying Article 3, according to which each coastal State has the inalienable right to extend its territorial waters up to twelve nautical miles and this is a rule of international customary law, according to international case law. It is noted that the draft law has preceded the adoption of Presidential Decree 107/2020, which closes the sea bays and sets out the straight lines and all of them in implementation of the relevant provisions of the Convention which I have mentioned, as well as of Article 2 of the Convention's instruments of ratification, of Law 2321/1995. What does that mean, practically? That the base lines unite the land edges that delineate a vagina, which thus closes and converts into a zone of absolute national sovereignty. Thus, the twelve nautical miles start counting from there rather than from land. This was the case, for example, in a context such as the Ambrosian, the Corinthian, the Messinian, that is, pursuant to Article 10 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, those vaginas which have either lands or islands. At the other points the gynaecological zone range is normally measured by the natural coastline. In Article 2 of the bill, which refers to the Presidential Decree in question, the Minister also submitted a legislative improvement, adding the words 'as is the case'. We welcome this addition, as the Presidential Decree in case of its amendment will automatically apply without any further procedure. I would like to stress that Greece was perhaps the only country that had never adopted straight-line lines before for the calculation of gyalitis zone and thus continental shelf. Today, then, that changes. The extension to the region is going on at 12 miles, without, of course, affecting previous demarcation agreements. Of course, it is understood that this extension also entails the simultaneous extension of the overhead airspace to twelve nautical miles similarly. Moreover, in this bill there is a clear reference to fishing activity, a very serious issue, following on from the relevant negotiation to establish an EEZ with Italy and on the basis of Union law at all times. I am therefore referring to Article 4 of the bill where the Minister has also tabled a legislative improvement, which explains more fully the rationale behind this article. This means, therefore, that it will be allowed temporarily by a ministerial decision to fish for specific fish in the zone from six to twelve nautical miles until the forthcoming amendment to Annex 1380 of the European Union Fisheries Regulation. However, after this amendment, only Italian fishermen, by the Community, will have the right to move in this area, in accordance with the spirit of last year's Greek agreement. In short, in an area that is currently an international waters and Italian fishermen can move uncontrolledly, severely restricted, strict rules are laid down on both the authorised catch and the number of vessels that can be attempted. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a stable country under international law. At the present time, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, following the demarcation of maritime zones with Italy and the consultation with Albania for recourse to the International Court of Justice, is moving on to extend the territorial waters to the west. However, our country fully retains its unilateral right to extend territorial waters to other regions, as when it considers it nationally beneficial. After all, this is clearly and clearly stated in Article 1 of this bill. SYRIZA had stated that as a government they were ready to extend to the Ionian, but eventually they did not have time to do so. We then heard from the former Foreign Minister, Mr. Nikos Kotzias, during his delivery ceremony - the receipt of his ministry to Mr. Alexis Tsipras, that a relevant presidential decree had already been prepared. Finally, the fact is that nothing has been done either by a Presidential Decree or by any legislative initiative. Indeed, then reservations were expressed by the New Democracy in extending the gynaecitis zone to the Ionian Sea, when it was announced three years ago, without, of course, having come to an end. I would therefore like to make it clear that the conditions now are completely different. From 2018 until today, the landscape in the Eastern Mediterranean has changed rapidly. In short, our neighborhood is now geopolitically burdened. Furthermore, Turkey's reform has increased sharply and the signing of the illegal Turkmenistan memorandum has unfortunately shaped an unexpected and unpleasant reality that we have been called upon to face. Today, then, we have also in our patronage the two legal demarcation agreements, with Italy and Egypt - as I mentioned earlier - and so with the current data, this draft law is part of a comprehensive national planning. The agreement between Greece and Italy last year was obviously the catalyst for the process to proceed in the Ionian Sea, on the western front in general. This extension does not take place in fragmentation, it does not suddenly take place in a nice morning. With boldness and determination, the government gradually resolves outstanding issues with neighbouring states and moves forward - a step forward in implementing an integrated national strategy. Greece is no longer merely limited to invoking its rights. In the new era, it is exploiting international law and applying it to safeguard its rights. This integrated national strategy aims to strengthen the role of our country as a pole of regional stability and, above all, international legality. In short, it aims to highlight Greece as a regional security provider in the Eastern Mediterranean. Indeed, during the last year and a half Greek foreign policy has taken great steps forward. The strong agreements, as I said, with Italy and Egypt, the agreement with Albania to refer to the International Court of Justice, the effective defence of our borders in Evros and the Aegean, when Turkey has attempted to work on thousands of immigrants and refugees - the multilateral forms of cooperation in the Mediterranean where Greece is leading, the strengthening of our relations with Israel, but also with important states in the Arab world clearly demonstrate one thing, that Greece now has a vision for the wider region and, above all, that it joins forces to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know in this Chamber that the Turkish National Assembly since 1995 has described as a cause of war the expansion of Greek territorial waters in the Aegean Sea to twelve nautical miles, obviously in breach of every concept of law. This threat does not impair Greece or discourage it from its future plans. Our unique bilateral pendingity is the delimitation of EEZ and continental shelf and Greece remains committed to the need for consultation with the neighbouring country. Our aim remains to reach an agreement on the definition of an EEZ and a continental shelf, otherwise international justice will give the solution. However, Greece is not afraid to discuss the demarcation issue with Turkey. It has faith in the strength of its positions, emanating from international law alone. And today it is very good that Turkey, after a long period of challenges, has sent a call for exploratory contacts. Why? Because first of all he understood that Euro-Turkish relations are completely intertwined with Greek-Turkish. The hard work of the government begins to bear fruit, and Ankara, even though late, is gradually accepting the framework laid down in international law. Greece will come to the next round with confidence, but without illusions. Our position remains clear: a debate on an EEZ and a continental shelf, and if we do not have an agreement, then a joint referral to the International Court of Justice. We do not want dialogue. We want solutions on the basis of international law. And to avoid misunderstandings, the investigative contacts are an informal, non-binding process for recording convergences and divergences with a specific, consolidated context. Yes, they have difficulties, but we prefer discussion within international law despite inertia. And the channels of communication are good to stay open and, I think, they surely agree with both SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, the expansion of territorial waters on the western sea front clearly strengthens our national sovereignty. The vote on this historic bill demonstrates our determination to apply an undeniable national right under international law. The government will also decide to extend to other regions, taking into account the national interest and only, as the Prime Minister has already announced, but also the Minister for Foreign Affairs. To close, I would like to focus on two points. Firstly, today's bill is a tangible proof of Greek determination, always in the context of international legality to defend our national interests. Secondly, the consensus of the majority of the country's political forces on this extension sends a clear message of unity and unity. Especially this year when we celebrate the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution, this message has a much greater value. In the country that experienced the national division, it is worth understanding on our national issues. Minister, the New Democracy with a sense of responsibility votes for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr Georgios Karugalos is the general rapporteur of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to welcome the accession of the New Democracy Government to a strategic choice made by SYRIZA, which, when it had first formulated it, was invaded and denounced by it as nationally dangerous. It is therefore a good fact that the New Democracy is now joining the right national position. Unfortunately, however, as I will then develop, this is done in the context of a double void, honesty and strategy. It is not because of the circumstances, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, the reason why the denounced and demagogic criticism by the then opposition and current government opposition party had been carried out. The Minister was right to say today that with this initiative Greece is growing. What did the institutional representative, the Foreign Minister of the New Democracy then, say? ‘Unprecedentedly, they separate the country in the middle’. And obviously it wasn't his personal viewpoint. That was the view of the whole of the New Democracy. The other warlord, the warlord of defence, said that this is how we are being created and we are joining Turkey's arguments. He explained: "They gave Turkey the opportunity to insist on its well-known position that the law of the sea cannot be fully applied in the Aegean, because it is allegedly a special case." A similar argument had been expressed, on behalf of the Change Movement, by Evangelos Venizelos. He summed up all this, in the usual glamorous way, by saying: "Great damage that the Ionian Sea has distinguished from the Aegean". This great damage is being introduced today, and you're doing well. This is the nationally advantageous position. But here comes the first gap, an obvious void of sincerity. Your attitude at that time was similar to the demagogy you exercised in the Macedonian. And our attitude was similar, leaving the logic of inertia and non-resolution. One difference: in Macedonian, we have promoted a national position already in existence since 2005, and here we have indeed improved the national position, overcoming contagion of the past and horrific syndromes. Did we, though, have any corresponding partners? The rapporteur of the New Democracy has made this a hint. There is an extra-parliamentary criticism of this. Why didn't we submit the presidential decrees that the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs Nikos Kotzias had actually prepared? I have said many times that the Constitution in Article 27(1) provides only formal law - and indeed by qualified majority - for the extension of territorial waters, precisely because the extension of territorial waters constitutes an automatic extension of the boundaries of the territory. Already the Scientific Service of Parliament - look at point 1D - expressly confirms this, I read the relevant passage: "The extension of territorial waters is carried out under the Constitution only by means of a law passed by the majority of the Members, and the authorisation for a presidential decree to that effect is not permitted." And obviously I had introduced an oral and relevant question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Scientific Council, where no one has expressed a contrary view. The law, therefore, had been prepared and I had presented not the text of the law, but the government's intention to table this law at the National Foreign Policy Council at the end of February. I will submit to the Minutes one of the many publications of the time by "THEA": "The law for twelve miles is ready in the Ionian". Our planning was to precede a deposit of the law on the establishment of a National Security Council, necessary, - you have appointed a National Security Council without a National Security Council - and a ministry of the Ministry, which had been passed by a Central Legislative Committee, followed by the deposit of this law. Announcing early elections did not allow this programme to be completed. In any case, it is positive, I repeat, that you brought this law. But why am I talking about an empty strategy combined with the void of sincerity that you have shown? What strategy should be followed in this regard? Before going through this, let me have a little reference to Article 4. Article 4 is the consequence of the compromise that has been reached in negotiating with the Italian side to recognise fishing rights to Italian fishermen in breach of the reciprocity rule, that is, without our own fishing rights. Although we criticised that this made the Leodya agreement, we voted in favour of the relevant ratification law, precisely because we considered it to be a matter of national interest in the light of the circumstances at the time, and the need for a direct dismissal of the Turkish - Libyan pact. However, the article as it is formulated overshadows this compromise. Why? Because it recognises rights to all European fishermen, whatever their country of origin, which may be the case prior to the amendment of the regulation, it is imposed by the competition rules of the European Union, but it does not impose any qualitative restriction on fishing. What had the Minister for Rural Development assured us at the time, Mr Vorides? That there was only a catch restriction on the red shrimp and an additional restriction on the number of vessels. By two things one: The truth was then said by Mr Vorides, and in this case I cannot understand why you did not introduce this explicit restriction in favour of the rights of our fishermen - in fact a restriction on the major concession we made in Italy in this bill - or the other possibility that I do not even want to think about, that Mr Vorides was lying. I put it in committee. I want an answer here too. However, the main issue of our criticism, ladies and gentlemen, is, as I have said before, the empty strategy. The extension of territorial waters is indeed self-evident. He does raise the country. But it must also be part of a coherent strategic plan. The logical thing would have been to precede the closure of the tricks, to draw up the straight lines, to follow the expansion of the territorial waters and then to negotiate on an EEZ and continent with the neighbouring countries, for the good reason that the scale of the negotiation is limited, since it is growing by definition that part of the territory in which the country exercises sovereignty. This has already been done earlier, contrary to our planning. However, let us say that this was necessary to deal, as I said before, with the illegal Turkish-libian pact. But we have also raised another reason for the need to extend the territorial waters south and east of Crete and not just south of Crete, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. Who's that? The need to regain the illegal Turkish aggression that we saw manifested with enthusiasm and between six and twelve miles. Because, obviously, the national line is not that we only react with a red line of six miles, as you unfortunately said your government's central minister, nor is it nationalism, as another Minister of your Government said, the expansion of territorial waters. We expect the Prime Minister to see how he is placed. The Foreign Minister has already announced the extension in August. Why am I talking to the Prime Minister? Because it will not be the first time that significant discrepancies have arisen between his own statements or statements and statements or statements or statements made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been firmly confronted with Turkish provocation, talking about violations of sovereign rights within our continent. The Prime Minister in his article in three foreign newspapers of September 9 talked about research in a non-demarcated area. Even more critical in view of the negotiations, with repeated statements by the Foreign Minister, it limits what we are negotiating with the Turks in the maritime economic zones, namely the continental continent and the AEZ. The Prime Minister is repeatedly referring to marine zones as a whole, including territorial waters and the gyalitis zone as a whole. These are questions that the Prime Minister must answer, not you, Minister. On the one hand, because you are not the one who departs from the national position and, on the other, because I am not sure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs always knows what the Prime Minister's office is doing. The Berlin Agreement is particularly similar. We're still in the dark about what was agreed then. You have not put these minutes in public, nor have you even informed the parties exactly about their content. However, especially in the light of the opening of negotiations on the exploratory contacts, which are a pre-critical stage of negotiation with Turkey, everything must be in the light. Mr Mitsotakis must overcome the irresponsibility he has shown on several occasions in the field of foreign policy, such as when he denounced us that we have exchanged pensions with Macedonia. This irresponsibility now with exploratory contacts becomes even more dangerous. We believe that we have no other way than dialogue to resolve the one and only difference we have with the eastern neighbour. That is why we support exploratory contacts, but without blackmail, without a threat of violence. And this process, unfortunately, begins undermining, precisely because Mr Mitsotakis has failed - and this is a personal failure - to guarantee sanctions on successive European Councils, which would provide a framework of guarantees that Turkey will not recur again, will not return to the aggression of 2020. And you saw the threats of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you saw Turkey's actions with the incident at the expense of our Imia cape. Turkey continues to have a review strategy and regularly moves one on the nail and one on the petal. I was in favour of dialogue on the eyes of Europeans and the new American Presidency, very little covert threats and extortion at our expense. Even so, the negotiation must go ahead, but the government must identify its plan, its tactics. The more disastrous the accession to the enlargement of the agenda, as the Turkish side calls for in terms of sovereignty, such as the grey areas, the demilitarisation of the islands, will be such a counterproductive attitude that we will only go there to hear what Turkey will say or even worse, and we are now making sure that we do not collect the blame game. This is short-sighted, not national interests promote and obviously, if that is the end, a shipwreck of explorers, in the absence of sanctions will lead to a new escalation of tension in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. We have already been threatened by Mr Tsavosoglu in his last statements. So we expect you to present your strategy to us today, to overcome your tendency to manage in terms of communication and non-policy of foreign policy. We are a patriotic force. We will support a national strategy, if it exists, which will obviously have to be shaped by a Council of Political Heads, not guardians, not protectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u12	Until the Step Mr. Loverdos, a special speaker from the Change Movement, wants the Minister for two minutes to say something. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, thank you for giving me the right to speak. I am not in the habit of intervening in the order of rapporteurs, but a few things have been said by my dear colleague, who is good enough to clarify themselves in order not to widen the debate on the basis of which they have been spoken. As far as Crete is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has been posted for months to extend the territorial waters to Crete. And of course Crete also includes the eastern part of Crete, there is no question of this. With regard to the alleged dimension of wording between the wording of the Prime Minister for non-demarcated zones and the wording of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the continental shelf, I think it is two parallel levels of the same thing. The country's position on the Greek continental shelf is formulated by the law Maniotis. It's like that. With regard to the Exclusive Economic Zone, the overhead of this particular continent in this region, the fact is true. It has not been defined by agreement with one of the neighbouring countries, and I am referring to Turkey. Of course, I understand what his interest in appearing as a discrepancy is. I understand that very well, we all understand that, but that does not necessarily mean that there is a discrepancy. I will also make a final position on this. With regard to the interpretation of the Prime Minister's phrases, which suggests that this Prime Minister would negotiate territorial waters with Turkey, I will be allowed to tell you that this is contrary to logic. No Greek Prime Minister at any time would negotiate the matter of territorial waters, because it is a question of sovereignty and it is not a matter of negotiation. Of course, border countries understand the exercise of our right. Italy knew. We told her we were going to extend our territorial waters. It doesn't mean we negotiated it with them. Albanian Prime Minister Rama made a clear statement to him when she was criticised by the Albanian opposition, that it is our absolute right, just as Albania had exercised its absolute right without asking us well. If he had informed us, I don't know, I wasn't the minister responsible at the time. On the subject that really exists in the public speech on the subject of Berlin, there is obviously someone on the phone conversation of the Prime Minister's diplomatic adviser with the Turkish President's diplomatic adviser. I would like to tell you this in general and horizontally. The Prime Minister's diplomatic advisor is, of course, the Prime Minister's diplomatic adviser, but is a diplomat and in her diplomatic capacity, she is a member of the foreign minister in question and is not meant to be politically ignorant of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have therefore made a clear statement that I knew, as I did not see. And why did I do that? Not to say it self-evidently, what any good-faith would understand without having to say it, but precisely to underline that at critical times the idea that there might be different views or that things could be done in ignorance, either on the one hand or on the other, is disastrous. And here, Mr President, by perhaps misusing your kindness and the kindness of this House, I would like to say a phrase which I would ask you to record in total in the memory of the parties. There is no possibility for the country, for the present government, but you will allow me here to refer to myself, to pursue a different policy than the policy of the Prime Minister on foreign policy. This will be disastrous for the country. As a result, it does not exist, but it does not apply. It doesn't mean. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u14	Good. Come on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u15	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, listen. If we take it that way, we'll get out of our schedule. Here, Mr Katrugale, for a minute, because it was your speech. I'm sorry, Andrew, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Foreign Minister for the clarification he has given. Let me point out that I hear for the first time and welcome the recognition that the territorial waters and east of Crete will be extended, which is consistent with the Secretary of State's narrative that where we have an agreement on FOZ, we are constantly expanding territorial waters. I expect to hear it from the Prime Minister. I think it was a mistake to refer to a telephone conversation by the Prime Minister's advisor with her German and Turkish counterpart. There are Minutes. We know. And that's where I said it wasn't made public, and we want it to be in the light...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u18	You're right. There was a living, there was a telephone, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u19	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u20	I conclude by saying that we are indeed waiting for the Prime Minister, because he is the one who defines the country's general policy, to have his place on the project that we are questioning in the context of the empty strategy that we are denounced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u21	Good. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u22	Dialogue, Mr President, is the prerogative of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, PASOK, the Change Movement is voting in favour of the proclamation of our country's territorial waters at 12 nautical miles by expressing right at the outset the opinion that the extension of our sovereignty at this stage had to reach at least in the southwestern part of Crete. After that, and tomorrow, I will develop this position in detail. However, I have to say right from the outset that these days, last week and this week in Parliament, the unanimity of almost the political parties on matters of major foreign and defence policy is undoubtedly an advantage of the country. In Rafale, and also in extending sovereignty to twelve nautical miles, the country's political system shows a maturity comparable to the needs of our country's foreign and defence policy. Today I will literally speak, as I did in committee, in principle and tomorrow I will devote my speech to the four of the five articles of the draft law, because the fifth is simply the article which defines the entry into force. But before I enter into the questions on the principle of the draft law, as a competent foreign party and my party, but also as a Member with an experience, I would like to make a reference to four serious issues of our foreign policy. The first issue relates to the change in the leadership of the US, the corresponding change in the leadership of the ruling party in Germany, the investigative orders and the Cyprus issue. I will say a few words on all these four issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Ambassador Savvaidis, in an article in the newspaper "THA" a few months ago he had very well documented the basic features of Donald Trump's policy, in addition to what we say in our daily political dialogue: his personal policy, the weakening of the American leadership by means of an unforeseen behaviour which has often demonstrated the internal conflicts in the United States which have been exterminated and disproved in this country. The next President, we all hope, will go much better than the outgoing President. However, I do not think we should cultivate a great deal of optimism for ourselves, for too many reasons relating to the continuation of American foreign policy, but especially for one more, the fact that in recent months, almost all of 2020, the positions expressed by the outgoing US Minister for Foreign Affairs were - I think - the best, as I at least judge them, of the ones I have heard in politics over the past twenty years. A very worthwhile, difficult thought in relation to the outgoing President was expressed by the professor of psychology of medicine, psychiatrist and our former colleague in the House, Yiannis Papadatos, when he wrote that there are three elements that people may have to be assessed, who occupy office of politicians who take over the powers of a single-person body and whose powers are many: to consider, to understand, the citizens - he said to be looked at medically - if this person has a great sense of importance for himself, if he requires exaggerated admiration and if he has a cynical attitude to exploit others. I think all three of these traits were the traits of outgoing President Donald Trump. Does the change of leadership in the CDU form different conditions in Europe? The newly elected man has all the characteristics of a central politician and we hope for him. Do we have an opinion as political parties on the outgoing Chancellor? I do. And our party has it. The outgoing Chancellor we lived on our side when the economic crisis broke out in 2009. And in its procrastination and its policy of "seeing and doing" we also paid as a country, but we too as a party. We also lived with Chancellor and her shortcomings in managing the refugee immigration. Worse management could not be done against Turkey at least. And thirdly, we have experienced her in dealing with the provocative and aggressive - that is the designation, not to be laughed at - Turkey's attitude, especially in 2020. And as President-in-Office of the European Union, I cannot fail to underline the complete failure of the European Union in relation to vaccine management. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it clear on the wheelhouse - our parliamentary representative, Mr Scandalidis, will do so this afternoon - our positions on the resumption of the exploratory contacts between Greece and Turkey. I have the experience of being State Secretary for Foreign Affairs when the investigatives start in 2002. I remember the then Secretary General of the Ministry, Mr. Skopelitis, who was in charge of exploratory contacts. And I remember also the optimism that had been experienced in us at the time, but also in the next governments, when it comes to the course of the investigative process. As a result, the investigations were suspended in 2016 after the coup d'état. In other words, it lasted fourteen years. Over the fourteen years, the issue that monopolized the explorations in the sixty rounds was our territorial waters. And since 2014 - Evangelos Venizelos Minister - the debate has left the Aegean and went to the Southeast Mediterranean. What happened to them? Nothing essential, nothing that can lead us to the problems we have with Turkey. Greece, however, always gives an opportunity to dialogue. Greece is always in favour of dialogue. And investigatives are a channel of dialogue, such as the meetings of the Secretary-General of the two Foreign Ministries or the confidence-building measures that are usually built by the Defence Ministries. Alas, if we, the Simitis government with a Papandreou minister, started exploring, we would say 'no' to the resumption of the dialogue. However, because I hear very optimistic voices, optimistic voices are observing recent history. It doesn't. It's not right. Counted must be our voices. Counted must be our optimism. We are there, on a clear agenda, on the seas, which, as I said in my recent statement, concerns the issues of the exclusive economic zone and the continent. Turkey has a multitude of agendas. We know how all foreign ministers handled this from then on. All of us - and our diplomats - handled it in a way. They are listening to Turkey's pluralist agenda, but they insist and manage to do so, to limit the debate on the real agenda, namely the one on the issues that I have just said and which the Americans, and with pressure at last, have accepted that they are the issues for the debate on the exploratory contacts. Well, we do and we start. Keep the tons of optimism low. It's not good to say too much and make little. As far as the Cyprus issue is concerned, I will say more tomorrow, because I see that the time of my speech leaves. However, I am really sad that a country like Turkey, while remaining on the start of the exploratory contacts, is taking them indirectly, accepting the two-state solution for Cyprus. And I told you, Minister, and the committee that it is time for you to take initiatives, because all the decisions of the United Nations, the Security Council and the General Assembly are insulted. It is not possible to remain afflicted and not talk about such an illegal, truly, behaviour by Turkey in relation to the Cyprus issue. As far as we are concerned, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, in this draft law and in extending our sovereignty to the Ionian Sea at twelve nautical miles: I want you to respect all your predecessors and all the diplomats who served the three-phase strategy, three words: or everywhere twelve nautical miles or nowhere near twelve nautical miles. This policy has been carried out for decades. I could say very well since the 1930s. In the 1990s, I think that it is under the chairmanship of the then Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who decided on this line. Or in the south, west and east twelve, or until then, until we say that we look back and do not make a partial policy. The change in this policy was heard for the first time by responsible lips when Kotzias handed over to Tsipras. One Foreign Minister, the outgoing minister, handed over to the next minister, because at that time the Prime Minister had exercised for some time and the duties of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Then, in the public announcement, he said so. Of course, we've all stood up against it. Why did we stand against? That's not what it's called when you get out. It was the wrong time. In any case, that government did not go through this. I said to the committee and explained with Mr Katrugalos that the National Foreign Policy Council was never discussed. However, the Minister himself referred to it, by Mr Katrugalos, at the initiative of Mr Kumucasakou, as saying: 'Don't go any further on this.' We also had a debate on the tasks of that government. However, this has never been discussed in detail. It has now been discussed in the Standing Committee and today in plenary. Why did Greek diplomacy say 'no' by 2016 and now, until 2021 officially? We said 'no' to political leadership and diplomatic leadership, because we did not regard it as meaningless, on the contrary, we considered the argument as prima facie and important. I mean, since you're saying 12 in the Ionian, that means that anywhere else you don't want to say 12. You exercise your sovereignty here, but that's where you don't exercise it. Because you either respect illegal casus belli, because the threat of violence is an international criminal offence, or you respect this, the horrific argument and you do not go any further, or you think that you want Turkey to go further, otherwise, even though we all know very well that declaring the twelve miles is not a question of agreement. It is a question of exercising sovereignty with the anticipated preconsensive state, where there are neighbouring states, where problems may arise. However, a country has a sovereign right to extend its twelve nautical miles. There is also an international experience of coastal states, the vast majority of which - in the manuals I read for a hundred and forty-five coastal states - adopt the twelve nautical miles, this practice. A vast minority, including to date Greece, stands at six or fewer nautical miles. It is right that we go to the twelve nautical miles today. It's right. It is also right that, after this division policy has been followed, to the international factor, to the countries, to the European Union - which has as a Union, and this to underline, sign and ratify the International Law on the Sea, namely the Law of the Sea - Greece sends a message to all of them that it signs an agreement on the EEZ with Italy, that it signes a partial agreement with Egypt, that it disagrees with Albania and goes with a promise in The Hague. It is a legitimate country, while, on the contrary, Turkey has done nothing of this, has six maritime miles in the Aegean Sea, twelve in the Black Sea, has not signed the Treaty on the Law of the Sea, it does not accept jurisdiction. This is a reality, and there is an argument for the government here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I cannot, however, say, stress that there is also one argument against it, that it has allowed Turkey in 2020 to attempt to break down areas, critical areas. They may seem indifferent, they may seem indifferent to the immediate present and future of our country, but they are critical - I repeat - and history may show it to us much earlier than we expect the critical areas it has taken or attempted - to say it better - to break Turkey down. We call 'yes', therefore, to exercise a sovereign right. However, we ask, ladies and gentlemen, that - and I am closing down - why we have stopped at Cape Tinaro, because we are stopping at the end of the Laconia Prefecture - because that is what is meant by the political, diplomatic and now government's legislative initiative - why we are stopping there because we have not gone further. I am not ignoring politics by the exercise of our diplomatic, political position as Greece, by the Government of New Democracy. I'm not ignoring it. I have opposed it, I have expressed it on the National Council. This opinion prevailed, moves, moves, supports it. We voted for all the relevant draft laws, but we are making a real question: What made you stop at the Tainaro and not go further, reaching - I am not going - the southwest part of Crete and south, until where our agreement with Egypt begins? Why? Are there technical reasons? You do not have - I will say this tomorrow - completed the work, serious work - I do not deny it - to the technical level of the closure of the tricks and the establishment of the base line? We would expect the legislative initiative to be taken in one month, in two months' time. You have informed me that the issue of Crete, with regard to engraving, is being delayed. Good. Why did you have to rush to break the west side of the country into two places and now go to the Ionian Sea and go to a later stage, as you promise? I said it yesterday and in my statement after our meeting. I don't hesitate to say a good word about you. I don't have a problem. A party is renowned when it stands in a reasonable manner towards the governments. However, I have a question 'why?'. Will it be easier at a later stage, where the investigatives will proceed and they may blame you for plundering the investigatives? Pretextably, because they are torpedoed themselves, the other side, every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u23	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u24	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I can't understand, Mr. Minister. And even though we have discussed, even though we have discussed this privately, this question of my party, PASOK, the Change Movement, formulates it in a way that is clear and in a way that does not cause problems in the country's policy. You have an answer. Your answer to the House, the Standing Committee or today is 'at a next stage'. But we are asking now: why did this effort have to be broken in the two stages and it did not become unified? And I'm not expressing a pillistic position. I'm not talking about all of Crete. I am not ignoring the Aegean, I am not ignoring the specific issues. I am speaking to you about the western side of the country that raises reasonable questions and this reasonable question we are putting forward and criticising you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u25	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Marinos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece was placed in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and put its positions on the bill on the expansion of the yacht zone, the territorial waters, from six to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea. The JRC will vote "residences", taking into account that the expansion of the gyalitis zone to twelve miles, in accordance with the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea, is the right of every state and therefore of Greece. But expansion is part of the anti-popular policy that serves the interests of big capital and involves our country in the dangerous planning of the United States, NATO and the European Union. People's forces can draw useful conclusions if they consider developments as a whole. We call on the people not to remain in the 'tree' of the expansion of the yacht zone, but to see the 'forest', the power of capital, the relationship of the government with the major economic interests and imperialist alliances, to distinguish the classic nature of government policy and the association with SYRIZA, KINAL and the other parties helping the government in this choice, by resorting to meaningless classifications. All governments are responsible for the US bases in Greece used in murder operations. Today the New Democracy Government is preparing another dangerous package of strengthening the economic and military presence of the United States in Greece, by extending the Greek-American agreement to five years, with new military bases in many parts of the country, adding new threats to our people and other peoples. In the face of this painful situation, a massive, organised reaction is required in Athens and in the other regions, where US bases have been installed or will be attempting to establish the imperialist wars. What alliances do you speak of, gentlemen of the government? The alliance with Israel that kills the Palestinian people and is taking the lead in the threats to the Iranian and other peoples of the region? The alliance with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, states involved in competition and wars? What will you tell the people about the participation of Greek Armed Forces in imperialistic missions abroad to Mali, Africa? What are you going to say about sending a united unit to the Patriot anti-missile system in Saudi Arabia? You give billions for the purchase of rafale aircraft and other weapons systems, in the name of the country's defence, but on the substance for the needs of the geostrategic upgrading of the bourgeoisie within the framework of the imperialist alliances. We want to tell all those who advertise government alliances and speak unfoundedly or intentionally for isolation from Turkey every morning on the channels to follow developments better. On the initiative of the US-Russian factor, strong processes are currently being developed. Lebanese service Prime Minister, a few days ago, carried messages to Erdogan from the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and France to improve relations with Turkey. At the same time, an effort is being made to act on the 2004 maritime initiative of Istanbul, which includes Turkey and the countries of the Persian Gulf, in order to strengthen the axis against Russia, China and Iran. Imperialist axes and anti-axles are changing and the conflict is paid by the people. Through this perspective we call on our people to consider the Hayalitis-area bill. Gentlemen of the government, continue overcoming and talk about a historic bill, about increasing the extent of Greece. However, this is reversed, because it is well known that the provision of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea has remained unexploited with responsibility for the extension of the yacht to twelve miles for twenty-five years since 1995, which has been ratified in the Greek Parliament, while keeping the country with your logic smaller. Why didn't you move on? To speak clearly, the differences, competition, the interests played in every period, the intervention of the Americans have taken place. This applies, for example, to the area between Crete and the Peloponnese, which is a high-moved channel of ship crossing. Don't hide it! The exclusion of the Aegean can be seen by the Turkish Government and today as a special case for which the International Convention on the Law of the Sea does not apply. That's what we're talking about in a vicious circle. The main problem for the Aegean was and remains the decision of the Turkish National Assembly on the Casus belli, the cause of war, if the Greek Government expands the gyalitis zone to twelve miles. What did the European Union, the United States and NATO do? We are talking about a threat to the exercise of a right, a threat to war, and your Euro-Atlantic allies are indifferently forging or better trying to put the yacht of a zone that constitutes sovereignty in the so-called dialogue, in the bazaar with Turkey as part of the plan for the coexistence of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. That's their plan. What's the reality? Dozens of states have expanded the gyalitis zone, some more than twelve miles, but the people have not lived, they do not live better. Turkey extended 12 miles to the Black Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, but the Turkish people are drowning in the problems. In many cases, the expansion of maritime zones is a cause of increased competition and imperialist wars. This is the capitalist system marked by the expansion of the activity of energy monopolies and the hunting of profits. And the people have an interest in fighting for its overthrow. A few months ago the agreements with Italy and Egypt on maritime zones were signed, but the lives of the people proved to be worse. The capitalist crisis and pandemic, the policy that burdens workers, the escalation of the anti-grass attack, have taken place. Where is the so-called European acquis? In the context of an intensification of competition between the Greek and Turkish bourgeoisie for the geostrategic upgrading, Turkish aggression has escalated and the European Union is putting the interests of the European monopolies ahead. It strengthens the strategic relationship with Turkey - and you are waiting for sanctions! - legitimising the role of imperialist centers in the game of the ranger. Germany, Italy, Spain supply Turkish military forces with modern weapons systems. Germany builds the underwater Class 214 with Turkey. Spain participates in the building of an aircraft. What is a European acquis has proved tragic in the example of Cyprus, which is a Member State of the European Union, in which Turkish occupation is maintained for for forty-six years and the Cyprus problem is led to a confederation, partition. You are trying to extract the people's consent with the bait of extending the gynaecological zone, but in a society divided into classes with opposite interests, national unity cannot be built. Workers, the populace cannot celebrate with the monopolistic groups, energy companies that expect benefits from demarcation of maritime zones or agreements, such as the one you signed with Egypt and Italy or the one that is being prepared with Albania. By the way, we would like to remind the committee that we have asked the government to answer what the content of the agreement with Albania is about to refer to what will be the promise, which will bring the appeal to the Court of Justice in The Hague, but we have not received an answer. We have also placed ourselves on Article 4 of the bill, which grants fishing rights to European Union fishing vessels in part of the newly defined yacht zone, in an area of Greek sovereignty, by way of derogation from Article 59 of Law 2538/1997, which prohibits and raises the question of reciprocity. And it is known that Greeks, especially small fishermen, have suffered a severe blow. Ladies and gentlemen, today's events are the exploratory talks between the Greek and Turkish Governments and are out of place and time the attempt to exorcise government officials, especially in morning shows. We lived through the research carried out by the ship "ORUZ REIS" near Kastelorizos, in an area that is part of the Greek continent. Greek-Turkish relations are going through a dangerous period. In our opinion, there is an acidification in the preparation of the soil for painful compromises, with a vehicle for the consideration of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, with the supervision of the Americans, NATO and the European Union. The policy of complacentness, which lies at false expectations of the role of your Euro-Atlantic allies, is ostrichism. The European Union's bazaars with Turkey are under way with a peak of customs union, refugee and the strengthening of economic - military relations. The US mechanism intervenes to ensure the stability of NATO's south-eastern wing. The Biden presidency will continue to be on the rampant because this imposes the United States' interests on competition with Russia and China, which will escalate into the conditions of the capitalist crisis and the pandemic. The orientation of the Turkish Government for discussion on all matter, the positions on proportionality and the so-called escalating gynaecological zone lead to the acceptance of a reduced influence on the Greek islands, i.e. on reduced rights and while it is known that their rights are like those of the mainland and that the Greek territory is united. During the discussion of the conventions with Italy and Egypt, we told you that accepting a reduced influence on the islands and excluding Kastelorizos and half of Rhodes from the agreement with Egypt opens dangerous roads. You welcome the procedure for appealing to the Court of Justice of The Hague, which is involved in geostrategic competitions. And the hot question remains what will include the promise between Greece and Turkey? We are addressing the workers and tell them that the need to overthrow the barbarity they are experiencing arises through every problem. It is a very important, crucial issue to understand the importance of this struggle, because it corresponds to the interests of the working people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is crucial to understand the importance of a state of labour that faces the problems on the basis of the interests and rights of the people, so that, in the position of the hunter of profit of economic groups, people can enter the people's needs and use the socialised means of production as tools and centralized planning with releasing from the imperialist alliances. This labour-state will fight hardships and work towards building mutual benefit relationships between the Greek and Turkish peoples, the peoples of the region, so that there can be a basis and conditions that will enable it to resolve and problems relating to maritime zones. Finally, we repeat that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u27	The special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Antonios Mylonakis will now be followed by Mrs. Sakorafa. We will then enter the list of the first circle of speakers. At this point, I would like to inform you that Mrs Bakoyannis, who is the first of the speakers, will not be given the floor, because she will have to go to the committee meeting on Thrace. When the committee's meeting is over, it will come and take the floor, as soon as it enters Parliament's Chamber. So the first five colleagues to take the floor - and I say it to be notified in the Chamber - are Mrs Jack, Mr Davakis, Mr Kamine, Mr Harakopoulos and Mr Barkas. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a special day for me today, because I went to court for the first time, and I was tried as a Member, as we all have to do since we entered here. I think it is positive how Greek citizens should treat us. We all have to be equal to the law, and I think that this is a good opportunity to show it, because the court is also happy to see the fact when we Members ourselves go and judge ourselves in court. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place today on the extension of the yacht zone from six to twelve nautical miles, an inalienable right to our country, should have taken place since 1995, when this House itself had ratified the Convention of the Law of the Sea. We could have, as most states in the world have done, extended the yacht zone, namely our territorial waters, Minister, from six to twelve nautical miles. But, for reasons obvious, for reasons such as submissiveness or submissiveness many times and inaction other times in combination with Turkey's provocative action since it told us that, you know, it is a cause of war when you expand your maritime miles, your territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles, all governments had left it and hid it under the carpet. When you started, Minister, the agreement on the Exclusive Economic Zone and the continental shelf with Italy and then with Egypt, we told you that it was wrong for this part-session to take place, that it was wrong for partial influence to be introduced into the Law of the Sea to be introduced into the Law of the Sea. But you made the agreement with Italy, then you extended this agreement with Egypt - in our view, both were wrong in handling - and now we came to see what is going on with the yacht zone in Ionian and up to Cape Tainaro. From the beginning, the Greek Solution had proposed that if we want to be okay with the Law of the Sea, but also with ourselves at the bottom, we can do this throughout the country. For the sake of your choice, however, you are doing so in part. As you have already told me - and we thank you for that - you intend, very briefly, perhaps in the coming days, to bring about the expansion of the kayalitis zone, our territorial waters, namely, from six to twelve nautical miles and Crete. This is a very important step, Minister. I personally asked you yesterday to inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if it includes the east coast, and you said - I do not think you should deny it - that the east coast is also included. So, then, we come to what we told you at the first moment, that we could do it with a law, with that law, and that there was no reason to do it after a few days or two months. Is there a reason? If there's any special reason, we can talk about it. In five articles, then, we have the extension of the gynaecitis zone, since we have very rightly closed the vaginas and drawn up the straight lines. And you stopped at Cape Tinaro. So we could do what had been done since 2018. You know, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I want right here in front of me, Mr. Catrugale, to finally take a seat. In 2018, Mr. Kotzias, Foreign Minister, when he handed over to Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister at the time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said - and indeed he had said it for sure, and I read, why is there things that I think we should say - 'We are ready,...' - the Presidential Decrees, Mr. Katrugale, were ready, right? - "...in the hands of the President of the Republic...". Everything was ready!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Mylonakis, I guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u30	You'll answer me later, Mr. Catrugale. Rhetoric is the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u31	No, I just don't think you heard what I said, because I was on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u32	No, I wasn't here. Really, I wasn't here. As you heard, I told you I just got back from court. However, since we also discussed them in committee, it would be good if the Greek people could hear them, so that they could finally understand what happens with these cases. So, since he had done all the work, so at least he claims, he makes an impression and says: "For thirty-two years...", Minister, "the governments of the New Democracy and of PASOK deliberately ignored the provisions of International Law on the closure of the tricks, the so-called “dry soil” and the kayalitis zone. When after two years of work I announced in 2018 that it was ready for signature of draft presidential decrees in the office of the President of the Republic, all..." - and now take note of the key here, ladies and gentlemen, unless Mr Kotzias passed through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and did nothing, it was a useless Minister and we stuck the retsin - "The systemic press..." - something that happens today, the systemic press is the same, this press, the media that are paid by the government in order to say what the government wants in the end, something Mr Kotzias says - "... and the channels with "front" of the New Democracy have attacked me with indiscriminate designations. This attack...", Mr. Katrugale, was accompanied and strengthened..." - if Mr. Tsipras were here, I would tell Mr. Tsipras - "...from my grand “licensing” by part of SYRIZA's leadership. Today the New Democracy's officials come to triumph for something that they did not know what they were until a few months ago when they rejected it with majestics. That's what Mr. Kotzias says. Mr Kotzias told us, however, that this could be done by presidential decrees. Look at you now that it's stuck. Apart from what Mr Kotzias says, in the Official Journal of the Government 261 of 1973, Article 139 states: ‘Article 139 Spatial water range. The territorial waters shall include a maritime zone, the width of which shall be defined in nautical miles, and which may be defined in a different manner by presidential decrees adopted on a proposal from the Ministerial Council.’ Minister, we had an exchange of views with SYRIZA's spokesman, Mr Katrugalo, who insisted that a law should come as laid down in the Constitution. But Mr Kotzias also insists today that by means of presidential decrees he could change this, because there is a law anyway. I'll put these in the Minutes, just so we know what we're talking about. In 2018, therefore, Mr Kotzias announced the expansion of the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea and even says in - because I do not want to read exactly what he claims - that the extension between the northern part of Crete and the Peloponnese, in Kythira and Antikythira, leaving the two channels of free shipping, as foreseen and permitted, then throughout Crete and then we would go to the coasts of Evia - so Mr Kotzias says, was ready, he says, all this - and upwards, to northern Greece. So, what did you do? At that time you went out and yelled and reacted, as you reacted, of course, by tampering with the Greek people and about the infamousness, as you said, the Prespecies Agreement, the treacherous Prespecies Agreement, which you are not only respecting today, but also honoring it. So Mr Kumucasakos, who was the head of the New Democracy foreign policy, went out and said: "The selective expansion of the country's territorial waters is being made roughly and fragmented on the occasion of the tradition - the receipt of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs." Mr Kumucaksakos also continued and described as "nationally detrimental to the Prespecies Agreement and the assignment of the "Macedonian" ethnic and language to Skopje". And Mr. Venizelos, Mr. KINAL, of course - and I do not know what will happen, if you are a party yet - warned'about the risks of partial expansion of the yacht outside the Aegean Sea, saying that the fundamental Turkish argument on'special conditions' was accepted. What is happening now with all that the New Democracy has said against Mr Kotzia and against the expansion of territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles? Was it a criminal mistake? Because if it were a criminal error, SYRIZA should also tell us why now, at the moment it says that the New Democracy is doing all right when the New Democracy said against 'don't make such mistakes'. So does KINAL, who is now saying that yes, that's right. We would not have voted for this bill if we hadn't sworn that even a square kilometre would have extended the gyalitis zone, that is, our national sovereignty, Minister, we would have agreed. But we do, faithful to our duty, faithful to the oath we have given here and to the Greek people, the promise that in everything that even a square kilometre, a square meter increases our national sovereignty, we will always say 'yes'. But it is your fault - let us repeat - this partial extension of our territorial waters. What we are now saying is this: After this expansion of the yacht is signed and passed, ladies and gentlemen, we must, in addition to Crete, proceed to the expansion of the yacht zone - that is what the Greek Solution says, and that is the logical point, this is the inalienable right of the Greek state, to extend our territorial waters as provided for by the Law of the Sea which has not been voted on, has not signed by Turkey, but has nevertheless extended its own territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles, Minister - throughout the territory. Secondly, immediately, here and now, yesterday, we see this section, which says in Article 4. Watch out for the fishing code, Minister. I have in front of me the Leaf 27 of the 1970 Government Journal. Note what Article 32 said at that time: 'In the yacht zone of the Greek state, vessels belonging to both nationality and ownership by a majority of third-country nationals are prohibited. The kayalitis zone of the Greek State is exceptionally allowed on the basis of a licence granted by the Minister of Agriculture to fishing, as previously in the kayalitis zone of the said countries, i.e. those which we sign the Agreement, "by vessels of Greek flag and shipownership, in application of a relevant transnational agreement, may be authorised to fish." So it is permitted for us or for fishing by foreign ships from six to twelve nautical miles, so in our territorial waters. I would therefore ask you to tell us why Greek ships cannot go fishing - and I say it fat - in the 12-mile-mile-mile-size yacht zone, from six to twelve, from Italy or other countries of the European Union. Why should Greece only be the one to give? And you know, because they've all started asking, they've all become zealots and they've found the easy ones, Mr. Minister, we need to see why, as you said to me - and I think it's a fact - the Americans are asking for even more facilities for the defence agreement between America and Greece. This is an issue that we will discuss, because we will find it before us in the next few days. But we have to stop at the most. We have to go in, Mr. Hatzidisiou, and a little on the take, see what we get. In a few days' time, the investigative contacts begin, Minister. The Greek Solution since the first day, the first moment told you explicitly "do not go to exploratory contacts without a specific agenda". Sixty rounds have been made almost with the same faces. Mr. Apostolidis, who will be in charge again, was the one who was in the government of Papandreou, then commander of the NDP, has taken part in most of those of the sixty exploratory rounds. And I ask: is Cavusoglu lying, Turkey's Foreign Minister, who claims to have before him five thousand minutes of previous meetings, previous investigative contacts and which...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Mylonakis, close. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u34	Excuse me, Mr. President. But I want to finish this thinking and close it down. So, he lies when he says 'in front of me, I have five thousand pages of practice, where the representatives of Greece and Turkey discussed all matters, namely demilitarisation, ten nautical miles of airspace, research and rescue issues'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u35	Come on, Mr. Mylonakis, do not abuse courtesy and friendship.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u36	All right, all right. I'll have a second. The Greek Solution therefore tells the Government not to apply Article 4 of this law if our fishermen, our fishermen, do not have the right to fish in the sea zone, in the territorial waters of Italy and other countries of the European Union. The Greek Solution, however, supports in principle this bill for the expansion of the kayalitis zone from six to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea to Cape Tainaro. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u37	Until the Step is cleared, and even though Mr. Mylonakis said that he was not present when Mr. Katrugalos spoke, we will give the floor for a minute to Mr. Katrugalos to make the clarification he wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u38	I'll need less than a minute, Mr. President. On all the questions that my dear colleague has asked me, I have put myself in my report. He's obviously justified because of his judicial obligation not listening to my position. However, it is not justified that it has not read the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which - I repeat - in point 1.D confirms that it cannot be carried out by means of a Presidential Decree, as is the case now, under Article 43(2) of the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u39	Good. MARTIN, Vice-President of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. As far as the first meeting is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we had expressed our position on this bill in committee and said that we were reluctantly positive. The procedure in committee has not changed anything, except that it has confirmed our original position. First of all, Mr President, there is no reason to oppose increasing our sovereignty, which is directly based on international law. But politics is a matter of principle and principle, but it is a matter and a matter of strategy. The crucial and fundamental criterion for every political move is to ensure that people live in this place. It goes without saying that for us there is no dilemma in favour of or against the increase in the range of the gynaecological zone. The issue for us - and here we differ from you - is how the place will benefit from this extension. patriotism - I have said it before - is neither haggled nor exhausted on commercial aspects of politics. It is unfounded, but it is also misleading to try to link our country's sovereignty and sovereign rights with supposedly expectations of strengthening the country's economic situation. For example, we are still waiting for an answer to the specific question we have raised to the government and the responsible officials. In a litre of oil that reaches the refineries from Prinos, how much does it correspond to the final economic benefit of the Greek State? The answer remains, as will the expectations of those who look forward to mining to improving the economic situation of the people, because what will happen will be the exact opposite. The country will suffer the environmental and any other costs without the corresponding benefit. So, as in the issue of EEZs and mining, policy is not exhausted in the first step. The question does not end with the definition of the maritime zone. The thing is what you're doing next and how you shape your perspectives. We want to resist the strengthening of local and foreign oligarchs. For them, Greece is a land for full exploitation and the reality does not prescribe any benefit, but only costs for the people and for the future generations. So because politics is principles and is a strategy, we too are trying to understand what the essence of your policy is to increase the span of the gynaecitis zone in the Ionian Sea and only until Tinaro. We wonder whether there is a possibility of this increase being used as an advance counterweight in the face of retreats in the forthcoming talks with Turkey. We have another concern here. As the Prime Minister often repeats, for the first time we come to talks on maritime zones with Turkey. If the term'sea zones' also includes territorial waters, then it will be the first time that we are negotiating for them with Turkey. This bill defines a different range of our territorial waters in the territory of the country. However, nothing prescribes that in the future the territorial waters will eventually be increased in the rest of the territory at twelve nautical miles. I fear that with this draft law we are establishing variability in the range of territorial waters not temporarily but permanently. Apart from that, there are other reasons why our positive approach to the expansion of the hayal zone is not so willing, at least as we would like. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] First of all, the government is going to designate the kayalitis zone in the twelve nautical miles from the existing six only in the Ionian region and up to Cape Tinaro and not throughout the country. You will allow me here a parentheses. I have personal friends from Manny. One of them has written to me the question: 'Can anyone give us a reasonable explanation why the hideous Manny, that is, the western coast, have twelve miles, while the attachment of only six? Why did Limeni, Mezapo and Gerolimenas have 12 nautical miles of territorial waters, while Porto Kagos, Kokkala and Kotras only six?" In any case, this restriction indicates the government's political weakness, since the extension only concerns the country's western side. It does not include Crete, it does not even include Kythera and Antikythera. It does not include our islands except for June. It doesn't even include our landline from Tinaro. This seems to be a weakness that, in fact, is professed in practice. If there is any other justification, please, we have a great deal of interest in hearing it. As long as there is no real government response to this, however, we will point out the defect in our national policy and the constant deficit in our national strategy. This weakness also reflects the failure of our country's political alliances. There is no real significance for the peculiarity and predictability of our submission to our so-called allies and it has no positive effect on the country. None of our famous allies have the mood and the opportunity to support us even on fundamental issues of sovereignty. This applies to all traditionally known allies, such as the United States, Germany, France and younger people such as Israel. Let us not talk at all about NATO or the European Union, which Turkey is not even a member of. This weakness cannot, however, be attributed to our supposedly lack of equipment. You know very well that since the reintegration, we are very good customers of all arms dealers and the industries of the countries I have mentioned. And the Greek people have paid very heavily these procedures and are called upon to do so again today. In any case, the geographical limitation of the extension to the Ionian Sea and to Tinaro is another concession for Turkey's benefit. We also have a foretaste with the agreements with Italy and Egypt. There we have also accepted limited influence of the islands, but also a lack of identification of EEZ with Egypt, just west of Crete and only up to the middle of Rhodes. These concessions also included the admission of special conditions not only in the Aegean, but also in Crete, since part of its continent occupied Turkey's illegal pact with the Government of Sarah, Libya. Moving on to our concerns, I would like to dwell on Article 4. Here you are enacting an indiscriminate concession in the exercise of our national sovereignty and, indeed, not only without any such obligation, but in advance and unilaterally, by circumventing the principle of reciprocity, which is a basic principle of international relations. In fact, this concession may even have an indefinite duration. A Minister will decide on the duration for vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Union or registered on one of them. Such generosity to foreign fishermen, which no rule of Union law or international law imposes, is unauthorised and remains unexplained. I would like to point out, Mr President, that, as we have mentioned in committee, we should listen to Parliament and the views of the Greek fishermen, who are certainly affected by this regulation. At the current juncture, with the forthcoming negotiations with Turkey, the submission of this bill by the government sends out the wrong messages to every third party, especially to every bad option. And unfortunately, this is not the case by mistake. A sideline for the news: There is also the time coincidence of the Albanian Prime Minister's visits to Ankara and Athens. There are reports in the Albanian press that prepare us for a paradoxical tactic on the part of the Tiranas in our negotiations. And all this in a structured context of a special partnership between Albania and Turkey. So the Greek people should know where our negotiations have arrived with that country. I ask you, Minister, this: is there already a conciliation procedure in place for the International Court of Justice or not? Ultimately, our country continues to support the 2009 agreements, or has Albania's change of attitude been assimilated to our positions at that time? I am referring to the positions of the then government of Karamanlis, with Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs Bakoyannis. Does the government abandon these positions? Is there, after all, a change in our current attitude to what the then New Democracy government had agreed on in the prospect of a joint appeal with Albania to the International Court of Justice? There is one basic question: will it be on the basis of the 2009 agreement and, if not, where do we start today? Again from point zero? I should therefore remind you that the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, had repeatedly stressed that the EEZ agreement signed with Albania on Costa Karamanlis should remain in force. I shall mention, for example, her position in the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on twelve -9-2019. We all remember the criticism that had been made at that time, that poorly, that in 2009 the Greek side did not proceed directly with the vote and the signing of the agreement at that time, that the delay left room on the other side to take advantage of the judgment of the Constitutional Court and to overturn the data. This agreement defined the maritime zones of the two countries, based on the principle of the average line. As is well known, however, it was annulled by the Constitutional Court of Albania, namely by the internal legal order of one of the contracting countries. However, in the opinion of valid inter-ethnics, the signing of the agreement by the Albanian Foreign Minister is binding and produces full legal effects. Therefore, recourse to the International Court of Justice can now be made on the basis of the coordinates agreed at the time and on the question whether the withdrawal of the Albanian side was lawful. There is another, the 2002 decision - I told you in committee - on the Nigeria - Cameroon case, which did not accept Nigeria's withdrawal. In the context of the parliamentary dialogue, I would also like to point out something to colleagues in the Coupling: The uniformly repetitive rhetoric, that Greece has supposedly grown up, ladies and gentlemen, and because it is not real, it remains incomprehensible. In times of peace, this argument is problematic. Our country is simply exercising the rights deriving from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, with thirty-eight years' delay and at least twenty-five years since it was ratified by the Greek Parliament. Nothing more and nothing less. So it would be nice to avoid this rhetoric, first of all, because it gives the wrong signals, but above all because your logic leads us to necessary comparisons. With these we have to admit that in these years Turkey has really increased its influence with military bases in seven countries and naval bases in three. One of them, in fact, is in our neighbour Albania. In addition, he has occupied territories of three neighbours of the state, Cyprus, Syria and Iran. Recently, it extends its influence to Nagorno-Karabakh and indeed, to the blessings of Russia. Already presents itself as a supporter of the naval interests in the Caucasus region, and also does not hesitate to jeopardise international peace with the illegal Turkish pact and the activities of its oceanographic ships, which are used to introduce sovereign claims. So do not try to present today’s events as a great triumph to satisfy the inner audience. If, in fact, you are targeting those on the right side of the Prime Minister's political line, you should also take into account the recent past. They will probably not overlook or forget government folding on a number of issues that were at the top of your election speech. Appropriate questions and concerns exist for the forthcoming negotiations with Turkey. After the bays have been shut down and the base lines have been enacted in Western Greece, why is this not done in the rest of the territory, as is the case in Crete, for example? Here, as in the agreements with Egypt and Italy, our country shows that it is living the cart in front of the horse, let me have the expression, as our people say. First, the bays are closed and the base lines are drawn up and on the basis of them, the span is defined and then negotiated with the adjacent state for the boundaries of the neighbouring marine zones. The question of why we do not do this is of particular importance, especially in view of the talks that will begin in Istanbul, on a particularly heavy date for our historical memory. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of a negotiation, we should not rely on rhetorical shapes that give rise to unfounded expectations. This alone shows that we are sufficient in superficial and completely short-term targets. We should function on the basis of objective data, based on International Law, established case-law and historical background. We need substantial preparatory action, otherwise we cannot talk about responsible national policy. I sum up on this bill and close it: we have a perfectly justified and justified reluctantly positive attitude. There is no dilemma in favour of or against the increase in the range of hayalitis. We - and here we differ from you - are how the place will benefit from the way we are currently exercising our sovereign rights, and that is real patriotism. In conclusion, I would remind you that sovereignty in our country does not grow with great rhetoric, but with the daily act that must really protect the rights and interests of the Greek people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. We are now entering the list of speakers, with the first speaker Mrs Theodora Jackis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to give a statement on a bill which the Government of Alexis Tsipras planned for today and which the Government of New Democracy brings to the vote. I would like to point out in advance that we in SYRIZA will vote in favour of this bill, at least in the first place. Although the road to Parliament, admittedly, was on a red carpet, that is, an easy political path, this government managed with its sloppy, incompetence and fears to turn the end into a "storm victory". It has thus turned a very good and easy decision for Greece into a medium-sized decision, where we give a lot to get a few of what we are entitled to with regard to the fishing rights of Greek fishermen. I'll explain what I mean. In the summer of 2020, this famous joint declaration was made by Greece and Italy on the resources of the Mediterranean, which was promoted to the European Union. The contents of this joint declaration have not been known to us, beyond the declarations of the relevant ministers. We need to be careful about what commitments are made through this joint declaration and can relate to the current Article 4 and what consequences are from the corresponding expansion of our territorial waters to the twelve nautical miles in the Cretan and Aegean Sea. The exception to Article 59 on reciprocity also concerns us very much about the commitments agreed. Therefore, clarifications should be given on fishing from six to twelve nautical miles, in this law under resolution, and on possible commitments and data creation. The main political argument that all this is being done to create a bad precedent with Turkey would be true, although if we were to guarantee our maritime borders to the south with Italy, as we are entitled to, and at the same time extend the yacholitis zone to the twelve maritime miles south and east of Crete. That is why, in the debate on the bill in the committee responsible, I described this bill as a bill 'for gondoliers of fresh water'. After all, Mr. Mitsotakis has used us to be expensive to pit and cheap to flour, all dynamism and suppression at home, and when it comes to our national issues, in the friendly expression of his sister, Mrs. Bakoyannis, "kota trikiri". And how can it not be, since the well-being of the media of the media is perpetuating the deaf and swallowing the "ORUC REIS"? Ladies and gentlemen, these people of the government today are the same who, when they were in the opposition, led by Mr Mitsotakis, lived the tanks of the revolution in order to defend our Macedonia by allegedly setting up political hangers. As soon as the "revolutionary" Prime Minister, as a good student, with his handwriting, with his masquerade, received transiently from the Foreign Minister of Northern Macedonia Mr. Osmani at the Maximos Mansion, asking him to apply the treasonal agreement otherwise. In the same way, it has made gargards the deposition of the middle class, the deposition of growth with the bulldozers, the "emirates and poor bastards" who would not have been able to carry the bags with the money from the airport to invest them in the Greek economy. Today, eighteen months later, however, the only thing that Mr Mitsotakis really has said - and it is the real reason why he is in power - is the authorisation of the funds, the feeling of direct awards and the creation of a new order of fanatical assistants in fascism, made up of entrepreneurs and the media, who will protect him when - I hope very soon - the media is leaving the country's rule, so that the media will deal with the next day with worthless issues and swallow the next 'NOVARTIS'. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, while Greece had huge diplomatic capabilities with Albania, you have not exploited any of these possibilities. On the contrary, you have, and you continue to have, a loose, indifferent approach to our national issues with Albania. In other words, you are not just "godolliers of fresh water" with the big countries, but that is what has become of you and you are using the same approach as small ones. In fact, Mr Dendia, you have not yet told us what Prime Minister Mitsotakis discussed with Mr Rama, in his previous meeting at his house, which coincided with the announcement of the resumption of the exploratory talks with Turkey. Because it seems that the roles with Albania have been reversed because of your inability to deal with the wider diplomatic area of the Balkans. Instead of always highlighting its strength in the Balkans, as it is a NATO member country, a Member State of the European Union and having significant economic ties with all the Balkan countries, instead of that, your weakness in developing an effective, coherent foreign policy has already created a gap that is coming to cover and benefit from it. Foreign policy, Mr Dendia, and I say this for the whole of your government, is not about the unsubstantiated crackdown of billions, the concentration of which the Greek taxpayer has contributed with blood for the market at the last minute of expensive weapons. In foreign policy, Mr Treasury, you should be aware that the beneficial alliances are being built, are concluded on the basis of the satisfaction of mutual national interests, and not on markets that have ceased to produce any political or diplomatic benefit. The government of Alexis Tsipras managed to resolve major national issues, for the benefit of the Greek people, without breaking down the billions of the Greek people and without the "ORUC REIS" to seize for months in our country's potential Exclusive Economic Zone. You are now starting the exploratory contacts with Turkey, with an agenda that is not known to anyone, and from Mr Maas' visit to Turkey, Greece seems to be not on the table, but on the menu. I hope that you do not commit a national historic mistake, because then you will not be saved by any political, even the tens of millions you give the media to make your political bleak. I am certainly not interested in your Government, but what I really care about is avoiding a new national mistake, to keep us at the end of the rafale, but to lose the EEZ. I hope, Mr Tindemans, that you and your government will be very careful with Turkey because, as always, she has nothing to lose and she wants it all. And at last this people cannot be constantly humiliated by you for the way you handle our national issues, constantly plunging our heads. You are portraying the "mags" in Exarchia and the "ladders" at the summits. With this, Mr Dendia, I conclude by noting that SYRIZA is voting in favour of the first and welcomes the extension of our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, together with the Italian fishermen, which is an issue that should finally be clarified, Mr Minister. We hope, from now on, that you step up efforts to create a safe environment for our country. The creation of a safe environment also requires the mobilisation of European forces, but above all it requires real political will and the defence of our national rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Jackrey, and thank you for keeping time. Mr Athanasios Davakis will now come to Stepma from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I should like to refer to some of the points mentioned by the rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. I know his legal self-defence, but I think he did some opposition policy exercise with some of the points he mentioned, condemning the Mitsotakis Government. I believe that this criticism is hasty and premature, because the Prime Minister was personally accused of the issue of the European Union's sanctions on Ankara. The conscientiousness of European states towards the imposition of strict sanctions is neither unprecedented nor insuperable. And sometimes in the past Europeans have been far behind agreeing to or taking part in international sanctions against third countries in intervention, to change after some time, when there were now clear indications that there is no possibility of a diplomatic or other way out. A characteristic example of what I am saying is the original reaction of the European Union to the US sanctions against Iran in 1996, when it has become internationally apparent that this was intended, whether autonomously or in cooperation with international networks of illicit nuclear technology, such as Pakistani Abdul Kadir Khan, once again to acquire technologies related to the acquisition of a nuclear arsenal. Do those who are today looking at the diplomatic efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' political leadership, but also the Prime Minister, what was the European Union's reaction to US sanctions then? The European Union had then announced its intention to appeal against the United States to the World Trade Organisation, while at the same time bringing into force Regulation 2271/1996, which practically prohibited European Union citizens from complying with any non-Union international sanctions regime. This reaction forced the Government Clinton to negotiate with the European Union, which led to the de facto abolition of the legal framework of sanctions imposed on Iran by the United States Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the longest-lived chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the US Senate and a well-known supporter of international institutions and international cooperation, Senator William Fulbright, said about International Law: 'To the extent that international law is being followed, it offers us stability and order, and it is a means of predicting the behaviour of those with whom we have mutual legal commitments'. In agreement with this fundamental finding on the usefulness and functioning of international law, this Government has consistently taken steps to develop a grid of bilateral and multilateral conventions, cooperation and contacts with neighbouring states, and not only States, thereby promoting the construction of a new regional security and prosperity architecture in the Eastern Mediterranean. The historic expansion of our western territorial waters to the 12 nautical miles we have to vote on today is one of the first tangible results of this government strategy. The ground for today's bill was prepared by the treaty on the delimitation of maritime zones between Italy and Greece, which was ratified last August at the National Representation, as well as by the agreement with Albania on the joint appeal to the International Court of The Hague on the same subject. Unfortunately, Turkey insists, however, that it rejects law as a basis for international relations and trade, by promoting illegal and irrational demands and by using threats to an attempt as always to impose its positions. In the context of this general attitude, apart from all our known threats and actions to our country, Turkey has been involved in almost all political and military fronts of the Middle East, the Caucasus and even Africa. Libya, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Sudan, Nagorno Karabakh recently, Côte d'Ivoire, Mali are some of the places where Turkey has been involved either directly or in cooperation with local and other actors, creating problems everywhere and claiming a place at every negotiating table. A common component of all these Turkish intervention actions seems to be the belief in Ankara that in the modern, international and regional system Turkey must always be the necessary partner. In other words, Ankara seems to believe that whatever problems Turkey creates, all regional and international players, small and large, should eventually make some specific concessions to her. Things do not, however, seem to evolve exactly as they expected them to be in the capital of our neighbouring country. In the face of Turkish aggressive behaviour, our country and its political leadership have liked a mix of calm determination and diplomatic mobility. At the same time, the Government has announced and implemented the largest and most ambitious armaments programme in the last decade, and it also goes on to make substantial reinforcement of the personnel of the Armed Forces, both in terms of productive military schools and in the recruitment of professional armaments, as we have seen recently in the committee responsible. At the same time, some major powers and some states in our region, and not only, instead of retreating to the Turkish requirements, impose targeted sanctions or review their attitude to Turkey until now. This dynamic is the best basis for intensifying the government's efforts to develop a grid of alliances and partnerships with the states that are now fully aware of the real scale of the problem called Turkey. Countries such as Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates now join the web of defence and diplomatic cooperation in our country, which the present government has extended, deepened and cultivated to the best. For example, in the context of these enhanced international ties, military units and personnel from the United States, France, Israel, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia participate in joint exercises and training programmes of our Armed Forces. Powers of our country and of Cyprus, in cooperation with Israel, are setting up an international aviation training centre in Kalamata. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. At the same time, our allies release technologically advanced weapons systems to be sold for sale to our Armed Forces, while the implementation of international cooperation in the defence industry, as known to all of us and the relevant members of the committee, a programme to upgrade F-16 vipers to the defence industry, is under study. Ladies and gentlemen, our vote today in favour of the bill on the partial extension of our territorial waters is also a vote in support of this wider government foreign policy, as I have rightly described, and of security policy, which I believe is liberated by certain self-restrictions of the past, in order to preserve peace, protect our sovereign rights and serve the national interests of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you too, Mr Davaki. Mr. Georgios Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if something is offered for national understanding, or rather if there is a need for national understanding, that is foreign policy, because it defines our relations with the rest of the world on a broad political basis and over time. In intangible lines, we have achieved this, without meaning that there have been no difficult times, very difficult moments especially in the issues of Cyprus and the name of northern Macedonia, where full political careers have been systematically built through populism and nationalist demagogy. The result is that for decades a matter of secondary importance, the issue of the name of the neighbouring country, overweighted the country's international position, while the Cyprus issue is now in an unfavourable phase for national law. However, on the subject we are debating today, I do not know which New Democracy to believe: the one who opposed a similar initiative not two years ago or the one that brings it to the House today? In fact, on one point, the partial or total extension of twelve miles, for which there has been a national line over the last few decades. They have attempted against the partial expansion of major personalities of the local political life and are aware of the subject. And yet, on such a difficult and sensitive subject, the New Democracy chose to have another attitude as opposition and another as a government. Ladies and gentlemen, in our relations with neighbour Turkey there was at times a view that wanted to leave everything for later on with the hope that tomorrow the connections would be better for our national issues. But the constant changes in the future are, in principle, at our expense. Developments in Cyprus especially lately, as I said, confirm this in the most embodied way. Every last year and better. Over time, that is to say, every time we find that the previous solution offered to us was better than today. International relations for our country today are not the best possible, but they are not the worst. First of all, the connections with the eastern neighbour. Turkey is facing very serious economic problems today. It loses traditional alliances, causes competition and fears for magnificence and neo-ethman syndrome, concerns the whole world with its aggression, its irresponsible international multilateralism, its involvement in issues of other countries. At the same time, any minimum voices within that country in favour of dialogue, in favour of a more operational and cooperative relationship with the European Union, should not be left to a public agenda that does not give them hope, which will not give them a chance for their country to become more modern and democratic, a country that respects international rules. On the other hand, our country's position - even with many difficulties in recent years - has improved, while in the coming years our defence power is expected to be improved. More favourable, however, are the links at international level with the new government in the United States, with the new alliances of our country, particularly with Israel, which began by the government of George Papandreou a decade ago, our relationship with the Arab world and, of course, with a Europe which, despite the atmosphericity of certain leaders, is now well aware of Turkey's behaviour. All this creates a positive background. We therefore support the government's choice to extend the twelve-mile section, and of course we support it in extending it to Crete. We are in favour of an active foreign policy, with confidence, with good preparation and cooperation, which closes loose ends with neighbours, which ensures our self-evident national rights, as enshrined in International Law. We supported the recent agreements with Egypt, Italy, the reference with Albania to an international judicial body, but we support it in view of the fact that active foreign policy, in order not to degenerate into an international activism without compass, must serve a long-term plan, a strategy, a great picture and certainly be judged by the results. That is why we expect the government to see a comprehensive planning on foreign policy issues in depth and in consultation and cooperation with the other democratic forces of the country. This must at some point be sealed into a Council of Heads before the President of the Republic. That does not mean that we are not positive in dialogue. Dialogue would be and will always be preferable to any other action. It's a path from which only the two peoples have to win. But a dialog doesn't mean you can talk about it even for everything. When a dialogue does not work, there is international law and the procedures provided for there. Ladies and gentlemen, from the political crisis experienced by our country over the last decade, the various nationalist novels that were deliberately cultivated by some, Greece has lost, not only wealth but also opportunities to consolidate its position in the Balkans, the Mediterranean and the world. Let us take this very well into account for the country that we receive each time and the country that we deliver to the next government every time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you too, Mr Kamine, for keeping time. I would now ask Mr Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that today's meeting of the Greek Parliament is of historical importance and this finding is not a tripartite rhetoric, because in our vote, with the vote of those who have the honour of representing the Greek people, we will extend the territory of the country for the first time since 1947 when the Dodecanese was incorporated into the national body. This important development is due to two virtues demonstrated by the present government in its unprecedented and difficult period of responsibility for the fates of the country. One is determination, and the second is diplomatic cowardice, a combination which, when manifested in the right analogy, brings positive results and successes. And with this combination of success, determination and active diplomacy, we must then move on to the full challenge of our national issues, so that in 2021, the landmark, which will be supplemented for two hundred years by the great national liberation revolution of the Greeks against the Ottoman yoke, will find Greece and Hellenism even stronger. Ladies and gentlemen, last year the country, beyond the pandemic, faced a number of Turkish threats and challenges. At first there was the invasion of immigrants under Turkish guidance at the Evros border. The attack was blocked. Turkey has been hampered as a stimulus to migration flows. We have won allies within Europe, while a number of projects and actions are now fortifying the land border in Thrace. Then, during the summer, Ankara’s efforts to create the Aegean Sea were emptied by fleet and aviation mobilisation. At the European level, despite the fact that no sanctions have yet been imposed on Turkey because of the prevalence of micro-ethnic interests of some states, but Ankara has proved itself to be the one making aggressive action and violating international law. At the same time, for the first time for many years a piece of equipment has been launched, aimed at creating an impenetrable wall in the sea and in the air, as well as strengthening strategic long-haul alliances. Our diplomatic crescendo has also led to important agreements with the countries of the Arab world, but also agreements with Italy and Egypt that define maritime zones. The one with Egypt, in fact, came to annul in practice the illegal Turkish memorandum with the Government of Tripoli. The agreement with Tirana on the process of demarcation of maritime zones and recourse to the Court of Justice in The Hague, in addition to a central point in the relations between the two countries, gave the right signal to Turkey and to the policy pursued in the Eastern Mediterranean. And now we have reached the extension of our territorial waters to the Ionian Sea to the Tainaro, which is a first, perhaps quite delayed, but now an inalienable right which our country has under international law, the Law of the Sea, and the European acquis, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs Nikos Dendias pointed out, is the pioneer of this intensive diplomatic counter-attack of the country recorded in all these months. This is a clear signal to Turkish review and to those who are clearly or underground. Greece is not blocking its rights nor is it going to be withdrawn from the European acquis by depriving itself of threats and pressures. And that has, I think, become clear in the face of the exploratory contacts with the neighbour and her attempt to arbitrarily widen the agenda, including no issues, such as the demilitarisation of the islands of the eastern Aegean. Furthermore, because a lot of talk is being done about the Cyprus issue, it goes without saying that Greece firmly supports the Republic of Cyprus for a fair solution without obsolete guarantees and occupation troops. Ladies and gentlemen, we want peaceful relations with Turkey, but it is Turkey that insists on dangerous visions of 'blue countries', on neo-Ottomanism and panurism. It is Turkey that trespasses the principles of international law, which sends research, geo-rural and warships to waters that do not belong to it. Greece is a country that respects international law and seeks peaceful coexistence and has proved that. Under no circumstances will it accept any violation of its sovereign rights. Therefore, despite heavy costs, it strengthens its deterrent capacity with the necessary equipment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If Ankara really wants to resolve the dispute in demarcation of maritime zones, she has nothing but to accept the full implementation of what is required by international law. The establishment of an EEZ with Italy and Egypt, as well as the agreement to conclude a consortium with Albania on an appeal to The Hague to delimit the maritime zones, confirm that when we go with a plan, confidence and perseverance, we can achieve our goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too, Mr. Harakopoulou. Mr Constantine Barkas has the floor now from SYRIZA. Immediately afterwards I will give Mrs Bakoyannis the floor, which was of course the first. Because of her involvement with the committee, she will speak immediately afterwards, and then we will normally be in the flow of speakers. Mr. Barca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. One cannot fail to observe, Mr President, that he is very happy with the speeches of all the Members of Parliament today in the Greek Parliament. I think it is the second in the series of legislation that we are debating in plenary, for which there is a general agreement from all sides of the House. First, it was the bill on the supply of rafale, where it was introduced for discussion in plenary and almost all of the Opposition voted in favour. Today, Minister, we have the bill on the extension to the twelve nautical miles which enters the House from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have taken the floor because the constituency I come from is a region that concerns this bill. I think it really is a good picture that we are discussing today the extension of the twelve nautical miles to the Greek Parliament. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has the peculiarity to come from this region - even though he is now elected in Athens - and knows the struggle that all governments have taken over in recent years to act today's bill. I think this is something very important. We all have to recognise that. Positively, Mr Minister, we have heard your position today in plenary on the fact that this is not the last act we are discussing, but as you said in the Minutes, "the expansion of the territorial waters in Crete will also be in the eastern part". It is very important, Minister, that the Government of New Democracy has put a mind on the fact that it still adopts a proposal from SYRIZA, the Officer for the extension of territorial waters as our right and to the east of Crete. I think it is very important that the New Democracy now adopts all of the proposals on foreign policy for SYRIZA. It really has never happened in the country's political history. I think it's very positive. But in what environment is this debate going on? This debate is taking place at the beginning of the exploratory contacts with Turkey at first level, as I understand it, advisers of the Presidents and Prime Ministers of each country. I then imagine that the debate will also occur at a higher level, at the level of Foreign Ministers, Prime Ministers and Presidents of these countries. Obviously it is a good thing that the New Democracy, once again, puts aside the various 'Koreas' which were being heard by current MPs and former transnationalists who raised various issues in our relations with Turkey. In other words, the fact that you are currently setting up another national position, I would say, on one and only issues relating to our relations with Turkey, that I think that this is going well, as long as you do not get away from this point of view. I would, however, like, Minister - and this is not about you, but it is about the whole parliamentary group that spoke to the previous House from this step - to recall what you have said in previous years now, ministers of your government. I'm saying it's not about you. It concerns current Ministers of the Government or former Ministers of Government or former Heads of State of the New Republic. When SYRIZA announced the increase in the twelve nautical miles in the Ionian, Minister, then the Foreign Head of State and the New Democracy Department said that we split the country in two, that we were separating the country in half. Today, then, you take the courage to revise this view, not to put it again in the public debate. I understand the separation of opposition and government, which is not about SYRIZA. We have a single position in this. You deviate your positions according to your parliamentary position. I am pleased that you are undoing your previous view and do not divide the country into two, but you really do something, which is patriotic. As Mr Charakopoulos well said, after 1947 the country's territory. We hope that you will continue with this view. Also, Minister, I would remind you - to remind the younger Members of the New Democracy - that there are not too many of them here today, I think - that the current Minister of Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, said about the Prespecies Agreement - if you remember well - that we exchanged pensions in the name of northern Macedonia. I am very pleased that you said yesterday with a tweet of yours, with a public statement from you on social media, you announced what we are gaining from the Prespecies Agreement. It is very important that you say this in public, Minister. You should also take lessons in the inter-ethnic Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on what we have achieved with the Prespecies Agreement. It is a good thing that we have isolated Turkey from the Balkans. You even say that. And that was, of course, seen by the fact that the President of Albania, Mr Rama, with whom many of us have one - one of us would say - a relationship, changed Rota and one of Turkey's extreme friends has turned into a European leader, who has turned his eyes towards Europe and now wants to increase his friendship with Greece. But it would be a good thing - rightly so - to inform us what both the Prime Minister and you and President Rama at the last meeting you have held. I want, Minister, to say that all the wings will support this - without increasing Euroscepticism in the Chamber, and to see Europe's role as regards Turkey. Because we welcome what we say. However, since many of us here say that we are in Europe first and then in our country - I am not that opinion, but it is not the time to discuss it - unfortunately, Minister, Europe must take these initiatives and the sanctions against Turkey must take place. Because at the theoretical level we're doing well at the level of speech. But, Minister, I think it is time for these sanctions to become a reality so that Turkey ceases to be publicly placed in the way it was placed yesterday or today, if I am not mistaken, the Foreign Minister. So we, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, respecting our role in the National Representation, respecting the history of our party and not wanting to break this political position, will vote on this bill, contrary to the way and the role that you are exercising policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Dora Bakoyannis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a nice day for the House today. It is a fine day, because we are indeed voting and voting unitedly on a draft law that allows Greece to increase its sovereignty. Greece is becoming stronger not only at the symbolic value of the matter, not only in the words, but essentially, practically, dominatingly. Greece of 2021 is expanding its territory and it becomes clear, ladies and gentlemen, even if some of you find it difficult to admit it, that this bill is part of a broaderly engraved diplomatic strategy, which has been bearing fruit for eighteen months. It is not a product of spasmist movements of impression, which would hit the credibility of the country and the strength of its arguments. In 2020 Greece proceeded strategically and diplomatically to close all the loose ends on the western front. The bilateral demarcation agreement with Italy was signed with Egypt, and already with Albania, the process of dialogue and resolution of demarcation of maritime zones has begun with an appeal to the International Court of Justice of The Hague. In addition, the draft law is followed in turn by the Presidential Decree on the closure of tricks and the establishment of straight lines in the Ionian Sea region, in accordance with the requirements of the Montego Bay Convention. This is essential and should not be ignored, since our country may have been one of the few worldwide that had not adopted, until a few days ago, a straight line for the calculation of the cavalry of life and thus its continent. So the sequence of such movements, ladies and gentlemen, is not dictated by fate. It is not by chance today that the definition of the range of the gynaecological zone in the Ionian Sea at 12 miles and not only is accidental, but it fully responds to the reality that it is currently forming in the Mediterranean. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with responsibility, with respect both to the rules of international law and to the principles of good neighbourliness, proceeds with a weapon of diplomacy and dialogue in the resolution of the outstanding sovereignty and sovereign rights in the Ionian Sea. It is therefore clear that this carefully engraved strategy of the Government of New Democracy is effective. I now come to the second phase, to which all the Members who spoke from this step have referred today. A new phase of exploratory contacts with Turkey is under way. I listened very carefully to my friend, Mr. Katrugalo, his allegations and his agony. The reality is that everyone who's been through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows what "investigative contacts" means. But because the Greek people hear me say it again. Exploratory contacts are informal talks which are held to enable each side to present its views, with a view to a possible resolution of matters or, at least, with a view to having a compromise so that we can go to the International Court of Justice. What does the Montego Bay Treaty provide for? Because we are now talking about a very specific thing. On the basis of the Montego Bay Treaty, we come to the investigative contacts. So what does this treaty say in two different articles? That if two countries have the same view of the very continental shelf or maritime zones on the continent, then they are obliged to choose between themselves and if they fail to find some understanding between themselves, then agree to go to jurisdiction. That's what the Montego Bay Treaty says. There is no other international text of international law, which says that a country is obliged to discuss unilateral claims from another country. There is no, ladies and gentlemen, that! There's nowhere written! And because, all right, some colleagues are new in this regard, they are new in their dealings with foreign policy, I will say that we older people are very well aware that there is no Minister for Foreign Affairs or Prime Minister of the country, who has ever given a different mandate from the one we all know and which - I repeat - is based on international law. So, quite rightly Greece, in my opinion, comes into the investigative contacts. Why are the investigative contacts 'cloces' for Turkey? Why would Turkey twice - will you allow me to say - 'turned through the engagement' and did not come to the investigative contacts, ladies and gentlemen? It is precisely because exploratory contacts have this context and because it is very specific in this context and because it is indeed very close to Turkey - particularly all that it has at times considered it to have a right to say - it is difficult and so with trouble and pain it is coming to the investigative contacts. However, Greece has not changed to anything. What the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said, is exactly the same thing today, and that was the position of Greece from the start. He didn't do anything. They turned the ships back and after the ships got back, we are ready to sit on the table of exploratory contacts with confidence and confidence. However, I would like to make a final point, which I feel I need to make. I listened very carefully yesterday to Mr Tsavosoglu's statements and to the statements made by the German Foreign Minister. Mr Tsavosoglou's statements are the expected ones. Cavusoglu is in pressure, etc. And he starts saying and he says. However, he said something, which should not remain unanswered by the German Foreign Minister, which is extremely heavy and when the communication - I imagine - of the Greek Foreign Minister with the German Foreign Minister, should explain to us: the direct threat to Greece has been lost in the translation? Wasn't translated and he didn't understand or understand it and he stayed mute? Because if he understood it and left a mute, then we in the European Union have the right to go out and say that this cannot be the position of a partner within the European Union. Clear things! Good accounts make good friends. It does not mean a country outside the European Union threatening a country within the European Union and a European Union Minister for Foreign Affairs not to respond. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, because Turkish is a difficult language and because translation in German can sometimes have vacant ones, that the German Foreign Minister's answer is that this phrase has not been translated. I want to sincerely hope so. But if that is not the case, then yes, Greece is entitled to express its discontent with yesterday's position. I am saying all this in order to conclude by saying that, ladies and gentlemen, contacts and dialogue with Turkey were never easy. Turkey does not raise issues for the first time today. I read and hear it's another Turkey. No other Turkey is! For many years Turkey has raised the issue of demilitarisation of the islands, raised the issue of air space, raised the issue of a minority issue, puts it all at a time. That does not mean that we will respond to the same level. So Greece comes with confidence, with confidence in these investigative contacts, keeping a small basket for those who express over-optimisticly, but with the certainty that International Law is on our side, that is, our arguments are based on International Law, so we have absolutely nothing to fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. The reason is now - we are going in the order of speakers - Mr Sedetakis from New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Sedetakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in July 2019 the Greek people instructed Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy to change policies on major issues at a time when conditions change. In our national affairs, however, there seems to be something more: it is the change in our foreign policy that has changed the conditions. Such a case is the law we are discussing today. Be careful: Today we are not just discussing the extension of territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles. Alas! This is a right that the Convention on the Law of the Sea has given us years ago. Today we are discussing why we are exercising the right now and why, in other words, only in the Ionian Sea, not entirely, that is to say in the south of Crete and the Aegean. We are also talking, however, about how the new foreign policy of the government has changed the conditions to get the ability to change the dogma of the 'everywhere or nowhere' that has prevailed so far - and rightly so - in our foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the doctrine of 'everywhere or nowhere' emerged because of the conditions created by the Turkish casus belli as a reaction from Turkey to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. It wasn't Greece's choice. It was a response to the strategic dilemma "expansion or war". The Greek diplomacy had to find a way to maintain the right to extend until it decided to exercise it, but it was not considered to exercise it because of the threat of war. It then concluded to refer to the exercise of the right in the future. Beware, however: The reason was not the threat of war. The main reason for this was that Greece had to give space and time to dialogue and understanding, which the Convention on the Law of the Sea itself provides for. This is a very critical parameter that is ignored in public dialogue. The Treaty stipulates that the demarcation of maritime zones, which is directly interconnected with the range of territorial waters, is carried out in consultation and agreement with the neighbouring states. And if this agreement is not achieved bilaterally, then it will be agreed to refer a referral to a third court. In view of the reluctance of the neighbouring states - how much more than the refusal of the aggressive Turkey - to agree with Greece to demarcation of maritime zones, the unilateral exercise of the right by Greece would conflict with the spirit of the international treaty which granted it it. Much more would conflict with the country's own strategic choice to propose international law to its international relations, to be a country of law internationally. So, as the strategic choice of respect for international law does not conceal selfishness, but rather resurrects realism, so the doctrine of 'everywhere or nowhere' has been a choice of soundness and pragmatism to date. However, it is true that referring to a solution to a problem in the future is not a solution, it is a perpetuation of a pending matter and the loose ends at some point must be closed. That's what Mr. Kotzias was supposed to do with the extension of the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea. Mr Katrugalos, who succeeded him at that time, is asking for explanations from the Government of New Democracy because he has then reacted as an official opposition to the untimely change of doctrine "everywhere or nowhere". As usual, Mr. Katrugalos and SYRIZA say half the truth. They agree with the partial exercise of sovereignty in order to claim that the New Democracy as a government implements a proper SYRIZA policy at the time, which the New Democracy was wrong to reject as a military opposition. They hide, however, that the circumstances at the time did not favour such a change and as they usually alter the truth. What's the truth? If Greece then, without agreements with the neighbouring countries, proceeded to a unilateral expansion of the territorial waters only in the Ionian Sea and south of Crete, it would not only displease Italy, Albania and Egypt, but - most importantly - it would make the mistake it has for years avoided. You realise that such a change of strategy would not close loose ends, but would be a direct undermine of national interests. And here we heard the other part of the criticism, 'why does the standing strategy of 'ever or nowhere' change with the strategy of the partial expansion of sovereignty? Why don't we go to "everywhere"? The answer is simple, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. These are the three agreements reached by Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias with Italy, Egypt and Albania, agreements that have emerged with the encouragement of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, agreements which have altered the treaties and have enabled the gradual and without national risks of extending national sovereignty to totalitarian conditions. So we have come to grow in Greece today. So we change the circumstances in the region, because the change of circumstances was the objective of the new strategy planned and implemented by the New Democracy Government, a strategy which began to unfold last February in Evros, when the 'working' of illegal immigration was canceled, both by preventing inconveniences at the borders and by the recognition of the European Union that the Greek border is a European border. It is a strategy implemented in the Aegean Sea last summer, when the Armed Forces not only canceled the attempt to challenge sovereign rights, but they also carried the fear of the effects of a hot incident on the other side, a strategy that highlighted the danger of neo-hottomanism and lure a number of countries - leading in France - to the creation of a front of this expansion, a strategy that triggered the tool of European sanctions. The result of this strategy is that Turkey returns to the table of understanding on the demarcation of maritime zones under international law in accordance with the model of agreements with Italy, Egypt and Albania. The result of this strategy is the law that is now almost universally voted on by all the parties of the Greek Parliament and is recognized by most of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you too, Mr. Sedetakis. Now, Mr. Karathanasopoulos should be prepared, and then Mr. Dashkas should be prepared from New Democracy. Until the seat is ready, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Planting the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits". Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. The new Republic's rapporteur, speaking from this point of view, said that this was a historic agreement. Really, historical agreement for who? For, of course, the extension to twelve miles on the basis of the International Maritime Law is the right of each state. However, the determining factor for the JRC on the basis of which it examines each agreement, each bill is who it serves, whose interests this agreement serves. Does it serve the interests of the workers, the people's interests or serve the interests of the bourgeoisie and major economic groups? Who can celebrate this extension agreement? The first to celebrate are the energy groups, the multinational companies operating the hydrocarbon deposits, to which the energy land has been allocated to the Aegean, a concession made to ‘for thirty silvers’, because anyway the exploitation of the deposits will be done for their benefit in order to ensure their profitability. This is a concession which does not respond to the energy poverty which is affecting the wider public, nor can it, of course, respond to the safeguarding of Greece's energy security. In other words, it is confirmed that the economic interests of capitalism are those which prevail over the sovereign rights, which is why the partial influence of the islands, and that is why, in Article 4, there is the right to fish on European and, in particular, on large Italian fishing vessels, whose right to fish in our territorial waters is not on the basis of reciprocity, but, of course, on the part of Greek fishermen. Why is this particular agreement now coming - an extension contract? Why does it come twenty-five years after the ratification of the Greek legal system of the International Law of the Sea? Here we need to see the big picture. Who's that? It is the intensification of competition in our region, in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean between the Americans, NATO and the European Union, on the one hand, and between Russia and China, on the other, competitions that are taking place in order to share and redeploy the region's energy sources, to control markets in the region, to control energy and trade routes. In this context, the strategy of our country's bourgeoisie for geostrategic upgrading is unfolding. A geostrategic upgrade that essentially serves the business groups and their interests, so that they can also participate in the pie-slide made at the expense of the peoples of the region, so that the Greek business groups can also extract a piece from the pie. This is contrary to the interests of Turkey's bourgeoisie and the designs, designs and interests that escalate Turkey's aggression by questioning the borders and sovereign rights. In other words, we are becoming more and more deeply involved in the bucket of competitions and controversies that are unfolding and acidifying in the region, because it is precisely on the basis of the country's geostrategic upgrading that it is going through and its growing involvement with the American - naval imperialist designs in the region. So it is not accidental to upgrade relations between Greece and the United States of America for defence and economic cooperation, to upgrade relations initiated by the government of SYRIZA and to take off with the Government of New Democracy by turning our country into a vast American - naval base, giving ports and shipyards to US-interest businesses and moving towards alliances with other states, such as the State - a murderer of Israel. The government, both today and the previous, has entrusted the role of guardian of our sovereign rights to these imperialist organisations, the United States of America, NATO and the European Union, which are also the factor of destabilisation in the region. They stand in its logic of "divide and rule" and become a factor of questioning borders and sovereign rights. That is to say, the current government also has 'the wolf to keep the sheep'. The ratification of the partial extension to twelve miles only on the Ionian Sea, coupled with the resumption of the exploratory contacts, is another step, in the view of the JRC, to prepare painful compromises, compromises, which will be at the expense of our country's sovereign rights, at the expense of the people, precisely in the context of co-management in the Aegean, but also in the Eastern Mediterranean, under the umbrella of the American-Natural interests, but also of its multinational oil. In conclusion, the extension to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea already serves the strategic plans of the ruling class for its geostrategic upgrading, to escalate its anti-grassroots policy internally to the detriment of the workers, the self-employed, the professionals of poor medium-sized farmers, to satisfy precisely the interests and needs of the major business groups. It's at the expense of the Greek people and the working class. This also responds to who exactly is the protagonist, the instigator of the expansion today at twelve miles. Because that is exactly what has been said before. Mr Katrugalos said that they were the ones who started, the ones who opened the road in this direction. So, instead of looking for the inspire, we clearly say that the inspiring and guiding of this action is the bourgeoisie and its strategic order are the interests that both the current government and the other parties are serving. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this context, therefore, it is precisely for this reason that there is no strategy gaps, as Mr Katrugalos claimed. Because you have the same strategy, namely the service of American - naval imperialist planning in the region, the geostrategic upgrading of our country's bourgeoisie and the escalation of anti-population policy abroad. That is why in the interests of the peoples, the Greek people and the working class is the escalation of the struggle, it is the organization of their struggle from better positions, the social alliance to open the way to overthrow. That is why the JRC is not going to contribute to developing a climate of illusion for the people, it has not and will not give consent to a policy that serves the interests of the monopolies, the geostrategic upgrading of economic interests, a policy that is increasingly involved in Greece in the imperialist planning. That is why we are voting'representations' in this convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. The floor is now Mr. Dissakakis from New Democracy and then Mr. Sarakiotis from SYRIZA, unless Mr. Varoufakis comes to speak about 13.30 ́. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Koutsoubas will speak at 17.30 p.m. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is part of a broader national plan that implements a step - a step by our Government strengthening the country's national deterrent and defence power. The Greek foreign policy leaves the period of inertia, gradually developing an integrated national strategy. We stand calmly and boldly against the complex security challenges in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the nearby environment, particularly against Turkey's reformism and infringibility. We remain exemplaryly oriented to the principles of international law, good neighbourly rules and are strengthening regional alliances, while resolving the outstanding issues with neighbouring states. We now have in our diplomatic patronage the two historic agreements with Italy and Egypt, we settle our dispute with neighbouring Albania and appeal with a promise to the International Court of The Hague, while at the same time canceling the 'experimental' agreement between Turkey and a Libyan group. Today we are taking another powerful diplomatic step, Minister, to extend the territorial waters to the maritime area of the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. In this area from six nautical miles we now reach twelve nautical miles of territorial waters and corresponding airspace. Thirty-eight years after the signing of the Montego Bay Convention and twenty-five years after it was ratified by the Greek Parliament, we are now discussing a substantial and historic bill. In this year when the country celebrates the two hundred years after its establishment, the country grows and is strong. Greece is no longer merely confined to the theoretical invoicing of its rights. In the new era, International Law is taking advantage of and applies it faithfully to safeguard its rights. Ladies and gentlemen, by claiming and implementing an indiscriminate right which is evoked by International Law and the Law of the Sea, we are sending out a strong and clear message in every direction: Our country reserves the right to extend the yacht zone when it decides, of course, always under the national interest, as demonstrated by the first post-war victory over Turkey last March in the national sensitive Evros. The country does not suffer and is not blackmailed. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to extend this extension is not taken in fragmentary terms either in the space but at an appropriate time, taking into account the current data in our nearby geostrategic environment which can affect our country. It is therefore part of a broader and active diplomatic strategy of the government which has started and produced fruit in the last eighteen months. Our country has become a powerful player of the region and a stability factor, promoting security and prosperity, while combining it achieves an increase in the combat power and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces. It is modernising these things, and quite simply - something that has been delayed by the Greek state in recent years - successfully applying to the guarding of our borders the single doctrine of security and defence in the area of our terrestrial waters, but also in sea. This, in combination with the doctrine of power-driven deterrence, shields land and sea borders all along, naturally applying to measures of physical, technical, electronic and electrical protection, as far as the lighting is concerned, as well as to the aeronautics of them. In fact, in Evros, the structures of border guard services are becoming - and we are seeking it - more secure, more effective and flexible. And we want them to be constantly modernised and their infrastructures constantly improved. It is a demand and a universality of local society, but also of us institutional actors. Our country returns to a role which not only deserves, but must also justify it every day, the role of the ambassador of international law and the stable arm of dialogue and cooperation on this very troubled side of the map. Greece becomes stronger, stronger and larger. This is a success of the diligent Foreign Minister. This is an achievement of today's government led by our Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis. In fact, Minister, you are all writing history and all of us. I am voting for this law and we are lucky that in this historic event that Greece is growing, the Greek territory is shining with its patrons and - starting with the north - I recall that they are: The Ormini Triangle of Evros, Samothraki with Zurafa Evros, Kastelorizo with the Stronge of Dodecanese, Gaydos with the Gaydoupula of Crete, the Ottoons with the Heritage of Corfu. This day is historic. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. As a Member of the Greek Parliament since September 2015, and by experiencing the attitude of the New Democracy in our major national issues, I never thought that we would have discussed with a New Democracy Government about the expansion of the yacht zone in the Ionian, namely, something that the Greek people could have already made for more than two years now if it had not been against the irresponsible populism and the cheap opposition tactics of the New Democracy, which was directed against the national interest, which the Greek people have not heard so far. You see, then, in New Democracy: Expansion of territorial waters in the Ionian Sea would cause irreparable damage to national interests and should not be for him, without a chair at that time, Mr Kikilis, to join Turkey's rhetoric. We should not only extend the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea as we confirmed the Turkish position, according to which, without a chair at that time, Professor of International Law, Mr. Syrigo. We should not divide the country in half by allowing Turkey to claim that the Aegean is a special case, in which case, without a chair at that time, Mr Kumucako. It was in 2018 when we would open a ferry, accept Turkey's positions and send a message either that the Aegean is a special case or that we are afraid, in the absence of a chair at that time, Mr. Ploris. In 2021, is that not all? Today is not confirmed by Turkish positions? Today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, aren't we opening a ferry? Is there half-opened, like, "a little pregnant"? In 2021, the extension of territorial waters to the Ionian Sea suddenly becomes a beneficial decision to defend our national interests. And I wonder, there was no official, a Member of Parliament, a minister of the New Democracy who told us all these previous years to go up to this Step and ask for an apology, an apology to the Greek people, but also to the SYRIZA's party to the smuggling, but also the hatred they were slashing? The above as well as other intents you said that Greece was causing Turkey to the Aegean and that you believed Erdogan and not the Greek Prime Minister. That's where your heart was and your agony to understand the ministerial thunderstorms. It was, of course, that you would have abolished the Prespecies Agreement! You participated in rallys and you would have vetoed - many vetos we heard - about the accession of northern Macedonia to the European Union. Now, however, Mr Zafe congratulates you and thanks you for the undivided help you give him to join his country not only in NATO, but - I stress - in the European Union as well. Let me remind you that there was no commitment for the European Union under the Prespecies Agreement, no matter how much you insist and it is convenient for you to reproduce the account that you are forced to apply decisions. Today, we really do not catch up with the memorandums of cooperation you sign with Northern Macedonia. There is a memorandum on speeding up the process of accession of Northern Macedonia to the European Union, a memorandum on the establishment of the Steering Committee on Economic Cooperation, a memorandum on diplomatic education, a memorandum on civil protection, a memorandum on cooperation between Enterprise Greece and the corresponding 'Invest in North Macedonia'. You and Mr. Mitsotakis, who were going from America to Germany to abolish the agreement, seem to be working nights to draw up memos. You really don't do anything else in your ministries right now? Are you only working on agreements with northern Macedonia? In addition to political deception, I repeat that your tactics were harmful to national interests. The first announcement of the coordinate after drawing up a territorial water expansion base in Ionion was made in 2017 by a SYRIZA government. After the Ionian Sea region would immediately follow south of Crete, for which you are not even proposing a clear timetable. Our purpose and design was for Greece, having done a good reading of regional correlations, to be legally guaranteed and to have made use of the unilateral rights of expansion offered to them by International Maritime Law in view of the Turkish movements in the Eastern Mediterranean. I would remind you that in November 2019, about two years later, the illegal Turkish pact was signed, and you rushed into an irresponsible EEZ delimitation agreement with Egypt, with concessions of sovereign rights in respect of Herodotus Basin, the zero effect of islands with economic activity, the ignorance of the region east of 28th Messimum, the reduced influence of Crete, Rhodes, Karpathos and Kassos. As a government, we had anticipated the moves of Ankara and you should answer today. If SYRIZA had been allowed to move up to the expansion of the Hayalitis zone south of Crete, would there be the Turklobic Memorandum - agreed? What if he was, would he have these coordinates he has today? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you were disturbed when SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras had called you "political crooks". Indeed, I too can say that I do not agree with that designation. I think it is very mild and very diligent, especially as far as your attitude to the big national issues is concerned. I believe that even the richest Greek language, the richest language in the world, seems too poor to describe your attitude in previous years, your disguised courage and the irresponsibility with which you are addressing the citizens by improperizing them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We do not intend to do you grace by following the slippery path of division and we will stand up to the circumstances, as our principles and conscience impose. We will criticise you for your dangerous attitude, but at the same time we will support, with our vote, an even retarded policy, which bears the signature of the SYRIZA Government, because for us the priority is to defend the national interest and not the chairs alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Saraciotis. Now I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Constantine Heta from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the truth is that we have an interesting debate today, because you are basically in complete agreement with us. You do not agree with SYRIZA, but with us, because our position is clear. And, of course, with all these history games, how while you agree with us, do you actually disagree with yourself today? I mean, you don't fit in your clothes. But you were saying, but you do. We have made it clear that we will vote for it, but our objections will be heard. Mr Sedetakis, do not go because you told us a moment ago - we hear terrible things here - that the New Democracy in July 2019 has been ordered by the Greek people to do one, two, three things. You are not saying that you misled the Greek people in 2019, because with another agenda you came out and other things you do. So you did not come out in July 2019 with an agenda that we are in favour of the partial expansion of the hayalitis zone. You didn't say that, so people could vote for you. You had put on the patriotic cloak and said it was unacceptable what you were doing, that is, the partial expansion of the gyalitis zone. But you did after that. Do you know what you've done? Explosive! So you have not come out with a programme to say that we love, support, respect the Ambassadors' agreement. But you were saying. You had "dressed" Paul Melas and you went out on the streets to mislead the world. So you took the authority, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but there is no constitutional court to check on the governments with what programme they have got and what programme they are implementing and do what you want! These are the differences. Listen, he says, "We took the government and mandate in 2019"! For other things you took the order and other things you do, Mrs Bakoyannis, where you are the oldest and the youngest people we don't know! And you older people, as you said, know and have dealt with foreign policy! If the results of the older people who have been involved in foreign policy are what we have today, we should put our hopes to the younger. Excuse me very much, but all the older people have seen what results you have brought! Minister, why hide from the Greeks that national retreats, party cubs like those of the New Democracy, are taking a breath from the recognition of the 'Mavi Vatan' of the 'Blue Country', which is the ludicrous desire of the Turks? Listen a little. The Greek solution is clear. Clear! We don't have your own symptom of cubism. We're clear. Any extension of a gyalitis zone that does not include the entire Greek territory serves Turkish interests. End of story, whatever you say. That's what you yelled at. Let me not repeat the statements now, namely what Kumoutsakos said, what Georgiadis said, what Plearis said, what Syrigo said, what Kiilias said. We've been through this, we've developed, everyone has said it! But you were saying then. Indeed, Mr Koumoutsakos came to the committee yesterday and said that foreign policy is changing. Is it changing? Are the views of a party, in other words, on important sovereign issues relating to our country, our borders, our AEZ, the kayalitis zone, the Prespecies Agreement? What are you who change their minds like that? What has changed since the Turkish attitude a year and a half and you have changed? The violin the Turks boasted then, they're hitting it now. The rhythms they've got and now! So your policy is changing, and that is the policy of resilience. But do you know what the right policy is? It is the one that has not changed in centimetres or millimetres - and let one come in here to say the opposite - for twenty-five years the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos. Not a single millennium has changed for the single expansion of our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles throughout the country - twenty-five years he says so, we do not change depending on the circumstances - and on the simultaneous delimitation of the EEZ with Cyprus! Anything else - and this must be heard once again here today - means national moderation, burglary of the single defence doctrine and the assignment of national sovereignty. It's over and over! The President of Greek Solution has told you that when you declare an extension of territorial waters, you do it everywhere, you do not do it partially. Partial extension of one, partly the other, partly the government! Now we're going to the exploratory, and we're the younger ones listening to the older ones, like Mrs. Bakoyannis, with great interest. But you will allow us to have some objections to what we hear in here. Why so long have you been feeding the wolf? That's what you do with the Turks and the exploratory. That's what you're doing! And who are you going to talk to? First you're in favor of The Hague. Are you going to The Hague for your grandfather's field? What are you going to The Hague for? Is Greece claiming something and I don't know that? Ours are going to share them in The Hague? Why should we go to The Hague? We don't understand that. Who are you going to talk to, ladies and gentlemen? With those who violate the FIR daily, where the harassment of our fishermen in Imia and Kalymnos don't stop today, either? Are you going to talk to them? What exploratory are you talking about? How else do you interpret that Turkey took NAVTEX yesterday for the whole year? He's committed all year with real fire for exercises. He hasn't left a date empty! Are you going to talk to them? Where is Turkey's good mood, when Archbishop Jerony, for a positive surprise to all of us - finally the Chief of the Church spoke, as Chief of the Greek Church - to the extreme of Islam? So he said the self-evident thing, and the Turks reacted. Will you go and talk to those whose Minister threatened, Mrs Bakoyannis, directly yesterday Greece, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany and did not make a pit and cich? Are we going to talk to them? These are exploratory contacts and discussions, which are of course informal, yes, but also practically held for sixty years except for the year of SYRIZA in 2015 and create data and create conditions. Exploratory discussions are not so innocent. Like I told you, you want The Hague. International law relied on again. What International Law? What Turkey has trampled a hundred and fifty times? What's the international law you're talking about? Either we're serious about things as they are or we're gonna say whatever we want. Let's go down. Yesterday, the Turks, with whom you go to chat tomorrow, set a whole show to spark their new nuclear power plant. Mr. Rapporteur, you're in the same charge as me. You are the young people we hope to age and make fewer mistakes than the old and be more effective for Greece. Because we've seen the old ones. It's Turkey's new nuclear power plant. 2023 will be ready. He's a nuclear reactor in Akuguu. Russian company, an investment of 25 billion, five hundred Turks were trained in Moscow for five years. Since yesterday, they've been advertising it. And Pakistan, of course, has a decisive contribution to this nuclear plant! And what do we do with Pakistan? We let them enter our country illegally, we have them here stealing and raping and protesting and undisturbed on the streets, as they did yesterday on a course. The Pakistani, who instead of deporting all the illegals, we have the snake under our crust! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as research is concerned, I would like to note the following: Do you want exploratory, to sit down and discuss with the Turks? The only difference, therefore, which Greece has beyond the island continental shelf and these issues, if you go - which you must not go - is self-sufficient in Imbros and Tenedos, is the immediate withdrawal of the occupied army and settlers from Cyprus, is the claim of compensation for Turkish atrocities against the Greeks. Put them on! Turks claim half the Aegean, deposit maps - fire and ask for a hundred fifty islands - they ask what they want! - They're missing Kastelorizo, they want to demilitarise islands, they have claims to our Thrace and they're threatening with armies of illegal immigrants, and I'm gonna go talk to them? I conclude, Mr President, by saying that Greece is expanding from the west, but from the east it does not exercise this right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u63	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u64	I'll be done. It will only have one effect: it gives flesh and bone to the nightmare of "Blueland", which, to tell the whole truth, Greece has so far challenged only in one place and this is east of Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mrs. Maria Apajidis from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating and voting today in plenary on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the establishment of a sea zone, namely the extension of territorial waters and therefore the air space of Greece in the Ionian Sea in the twelve nautical miles, namely, in the maritime area of the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. According to International Law, the sovereignty of a state is exercised not only in its terrestrial territory and in its gynaecological zone, but also in its overhead airspace. This rule has been reflected in the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea, a convention which has not been signed and accepted not only by Turkey but also by Israel. The second article of the draft law extends the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea to twelve nautical miles and calculates the span of hayalitis from the coast base lines, including trick closure lines and straight base lines. With the formation and closure of the tricks, the zones such as EOZ and Hayalitis do not start from the coastline, but from the straight base line. For example, if a bay has two miles of depth and the yacht of twelve miles, then in total it will have fourteen miles from the coast. Paragraph 2 of the first Article states that the Hellenic Republic reserves the right to exercise both in the other areas of the territory and in its respective rights. Despite this reference, it cannot be noted that the current attitude is a change and a move from the traditional policy followed by the Greek state for decades, at least since the 1990s. I am referring to the indifference of our country's seas between them and, in particular, the Aegean Sea regime. The Greek governments did not initiate a partial or partial expansion of the territorial waters, in order not to be considered to be indirectly acceptable to the theory of specific circumstances in the Aegean. It is a theory that Turkey supports. It should be stressed that Turkey has made a partial extension of its gynaecitis zone to the Black Sea and the Mediterranean at the twelve nautical miles, while having six-mile territorial waters in the Aegean Sea. Of course, Greece and Turkey are not the only countries using the Aegean. The Aegean uses as a unique high sea passage, enjoying the freedom of the seas to and from the Black Sea, many states. Examples are Russia, for which the Aegean is the only hot sea that leads it to the Mediterranean and the oceans, but also the United States of America, which have interests in the Black Sea in NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, the study of the bill and in view of the exploratory contacts that will begin in Istanbul shows a reasonable question: why to the Tainaro? With what logic and within what strategy is the region omitted from the southern Peloponnese to western Crete? Here we have partitioning the Ionian Sea itself. We would like an answer from the Minister, although he is not. At this point I would like to make it clear why PART25 voted against the EEZ agreement with Italy, but voted in favour of the extension of sovereignty to the Ionian Sea. The main difference here is the distinction of sovereign rights. For example, the extraction of hydrocarbons and the sovereignty over it. It's a distinction that the government is on purpose. In the EEZ agreement, the Government established a framework for bilateral agreements on the exercise of sovereign rights, which is problematic. Not only does it create bad precedents in the resolution of the islands, but it would also be completely inappropriate in the burning areas that are genuinely invoked, that is, in the big game that is evolving in the Eastern Mediterranean. Merra25 is against the extraction and extraction of hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea. The future of humanity requires an immediate end to dependence on fossil fuels, while the concentration of hydrocarbons with problematic regimes increases geopolitical tensions in the region at the expense of our national interests. But with today's draft law, we have a different case. Merra25 can only agree with the extension of territorial waters to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea and the increase of our sovereignty, in accordance with International Law. The question, of course, as a PARTA25, is how the people and the place will benefit from the exercise of that right. We cannot agree with Article 4, which provides that in the waters of the seabed between six and twelve nautical miles, fishing on European Union fishing vessels in general and Italian fishermen in particular can be authorised. There is no reciprocity rule. At the same time, we draw attention to the case of the Eastern Mediterranean. The situation there is fundamentally different. The same extension of sovereignty to potential today and, unilaterally, it has been announced as a result of the start of a war. Tayyip Erdogan's Turkey, with its aggressive position on hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean, leads to a new armaments race. Just last week we witnessed the circumvention of parliamentary procedures in discussing the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence on the supply of French rafale fighter aircraft. These developments make arms dealers rub their hands. However, the future of humanity, as I said before, requires the immediate end of dependence on fossil fuels, the mining contracts of which lead to geopolitical competition, serving arms traders and the supranational oligarchy without borders. The future lies in development, through green technologies and innovations in the area of renewable energy, which help both the democratisation of energy production and peace between the peoples of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. Mr. Varoufakis didn't come. We're entering the speaker's circle with the webex system. Mr. Ypsilantis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate and vote in favour of the large majority of the Greek Parliament, at committee level, and I hope also at plenary level, of the draft law on the determination of the breadth of the yacht area and the overhead airspace, in the maritime area from the north to Cape Tinar of the Peloponnese, in the twelve naval miles, it is achieved in a climate of national consensus, with the exception of some opposition krone, the completion of this announcement, made by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself in plenary session in August 2020. Since the gynaecitis zone is within the meaning of Article 27(1) of the Constitution and national sovereignty, in Article 28(3) of the Constitution, such a change also means a change in the boundaries of the territory. Thus, with a law typically adopted not only by the absolute majority but by the vast majority of the Greek Parliament, our country is growing to the historic point of the completion of the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution of 1821. The demarcation of maritime zones with Italy and Egypt, as well as the agreement between Greece and Albania on recourse to the Court of Justice in The Hague to define them, are the starting point for an active policy based on International Law rather than arbitrary law. In this context, and in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law, our country is reserved for the exercise of its respective rights in other areas, as resulting from the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea, signed in Montego Bay and adopted in Law 2321/1995, which reflects international customary law. This must also continue in areas of the Aegean, and for essential reasons, which are of international law, and for national reasons, but also in order to demonstrate that the Aegean is not subject to any special regime due to Turkey's provocative positions. A new chapter begins to ensure and enforce our national rights, leaving behind the procrastination, inefficiency, inertia of the past, expressed in one way or another, but above all invoking manifestly unfounded legal arguments, such as allegedly the possibility of extending territorial waters by presidential decrees. On this path we must and will strengthen the deterrent capacity of the country with armed forces guaranteeing the territorial integrity of our country by any attempts to prevent and prevent peaceful and focused on International Law for the exercise of its rights. We establish cooperation and cooperation in the European Union and in cooperation with Eastern Mediterranean countries. And we succeed... (It was not heard because of bad connections), through national consensus and consensus, and here too, let us send out a message that Greece of confidence and confidence, united, will not tolerate - in the European Union itself - misunderstandings and tolerance to Turkey's unjust actions and positions. So we also increase the sense of security to the locusts of our country, interpreting the feelings of the twelfth people who see a national strategy being achieved, which gives a new dimension to our country's international position. I would like, on this occasion, to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikos Dendias, on the systematic and excellent approach and the successful promotion of our national positions, with determination and always within the framework of international law, and to state that I am voting in favour of this historic draft law for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr Highlands, for keeping time. Mr Yiannis Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good year to you and to all my fellow Members, on this occasion, of course, both to the Minister and to those who are there. Mr President, today's position and as former State Secretary for Foreign Affairs will focus on two words, the word 'attachment' and the word 'attachment'. As a government, we have brought an end to our country's foreign policy by applying the multi-dimensional, active foreign policy, to a logic of dominance of sovereign rights and national interests, based on the national positions that were established, based on International Law and the Law of the Sea, in the logic of solutions and the emergence of the positive agenda. This was a real incision, because it highlighted our country as a pillar of stability and peace in the wider region. I would very briefly like to remind you of international meetings and travel, and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's tripartite and quadripartite agreements which Greece has made in the Eastern Mediterranean countries, as well as the international conferences on Rhodes security and the international religious conferences on pluralism in the Middle East. On the other hand, in this period the New Democracy's policy was the epic of populism and the use of national issues, so that it could take power. And I'm explaining. The micro-party policy was an epitome on this issue, especially on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement, as it also appeared, and in the response given by the relevant sector leaders at the time, in relation to the government's intention to extend the territorial water to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea. They were no reservations, they were statements which, despite all the surprise or, if you like, a policy likely to prevail at the time, the opposition, the New Democracy, could then have had a different tactic, closer - if you like - in national positions. There was no change. The expressions I have heard from many of my dear colleagues in the New Democracy, that the Treaties are now different, do not apply. That argument is not valid. After all, Mrs Bakoyannis said that Turkey has not changed, Turkey and then it was the same. No other Turkey is, it is the same Turkey that has been reformed. The circumstances were the same. What's changed? The fact that the New Democracy was opposition at that time is now government. As an opposition, you do indeed see that in this bill, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a consensus as expressed by the Minister and other speakers. However, this is not due to the New Democracy policy, it is due to the responsible patriotic attitude, with arguments put forward by the Qualified Opposition, which is now SYRIZA. And this is an incision to the political system, unlike the New Democracy, which at this time is an epitome of the lack of planning and of the foreign policy strategy. Today's bill cannot be the swimming pool of Siloam for a policy that has been carried out for eighteen months and whose characteristic is the lack of strategy. I have carefully noted the speeches and positions of prominent New Democracy MPs and MPs, where their arguments were that there is a broaderly planned foreign policy. Then we should be justified and told, because while we have been talking for months, because, since November 2019, we have been pressing, since the Turkish - Libyan pact signed, to put the question of sanctions on the European table, the government has put it in June 2020? Why, then, have all these months been lost to address this policy? Why did the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, say willing and, indeed, very willing to leave them and not defend the interests of the country? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Athanasios Bouras takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention two - three other issues, which I think our country should do. I believe that at the moment the greatest risk is to incorporate Turkish positions for Greek or Cypriot, in the context of a wider Euro-Turkish or American-Turkish or regional dialogue, from which Greece will be absent and to which Greece will not contribute. There are such practices and they seem to be from what our country has done. 2021 will be a crucial year for our national issues. So there needs to be a national strategy with a vision that includes not only the inclusion of Greek-Turkish but also the increase in its role as a main pillar of peace and stability in the region. We as SYRIZA welcome a conversion that exists so that there is a real strategy. However, this is the main responsibility of the government. We are therefore open to a wider dialogue with the political forces for a national strategy in Greek-Turkish, so that 2021 does not have the results of 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought very important results during our term of office as a government. The government will have to let arrogance be put aside, and it will have to let populism and what has been achieved with today's debate so that, at last, the country has what is missing, that is, a vision and a compass to its foreign policy. The movements that have taken place in the previous period have shown this lack. In this effort he will find us as SYRIZA partners. Otherwise, however, he should know that he is fully responsible and, of course, the results may prove not to be so in the national interest of our country. With these words, Mr President, I come back to what I have said. We need areas and not pluralism epitoms. The national interest must be above all, not the party interest. The government does not know if it has time to prove it, but I hope it will move in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u71	And we thank Mr. Amanatidis. The honourable Member of the New Democracy has the floor. Mrs. Marietta Yannaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, this draft law, I too, is very important. It is very important for reasons of a more general ideological approach, since it is not limited to invoking, but is making use of the expansion of territorial waters, as our country has a sovereign right, and is reserved for the exercise of its respective rights in other areas of the territory. We are talking, in other words, about the right of the unilateral decision to exercise sovereignty, in accordance with Article 3 of the International Maritime Law, UNCLOS 1982. Let me remind you that the purpose of demarcation, between two states, exists only in the case of contrasting coastlines, of less than twenty-four nautical miles, twelve plus twelve, where the territorial waters are determined on the basis of the average line, as is the case with some of our islands across Turkish coasts. Under no circumstances can it be negotiated how to exercise national sovereignty in territorial waters or in the airspace. To conclude, the decision to extend the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea comes as the final act of the settlement of the loose ends in the region, following the recent agreement demarcation of maritime zones with Italy and the agreement with Albania, to refer to The Hague on the issue of maritime zones. Then, according to statements by the Foreign Minister, the expansion of territorial waters in the area south of Crete. However, given that the continental shelf and the IOZ have as internal limits the outer limits of the gynaecitis zone, the gyalitis range is critical for delimitation. But we need to be clear about something. For a continental shelf and an EEZ, one cannot carry out what one wants alone. It should be in touch with the neighbors. For these reasons, the institution of the exploratory talks between Greece and Turkey was set up in order to pave the way for an appeal to The Hague on these issues if there is no sign of incision. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the exploratory contacts with Turkey, yes, we must discuss with Turkey. Greece has been negotiating with a sincere and constructive attitude in order to put an end to the demarcation of maritime zones that have been stirring up bilateral relations for decades. Let us not forget that this round will begin with Greece having 12 nautical miles in the Ionian Sea and demarcated EEZ with Italy and Egypt. However, although the investigative contacts begin in a specific context, I am concerned that from last Saturday Turkey issued a series of NAVTEXs, committing regions in the Aegean Sea to genuinely fire-fighting exercises for the whole of 2021. So let me keep a small basket, as I did the previous months when I had spoken about the issue 'Turkey'. Despite the justified suspicion, however, Greece has every interest in starting the 61st round of exploratory contacts, as it should continue to pursue the debate defined by International Law. In my opinion, Turkey will only consider the Hague solution if it realizes that the continuation of its policy will entail costs. And it seems that the internationalisation of the 'Turkey' problem has put great pressure on the latter. And this cost is mainly related to Euro-Turkish relations. Many circles at European Union level are sceptical about this change in Turkey's attitude, which is more likely to create a positive agenda for talks with the European Union. This is, of course, a difficult debate and we realise that there is a crucial issue in defending Greece's geopolitical interests and the European Union's long-term and medium-term interests. In March we are waiting for the Borrell report on the situation of things between the European Union and Turkey, and after last December's European Council, the Eastern Mediterranean is now being treated as an area of sanctions and the distinction between the Cypriot EEZ and the Greek continental continent has ceased. In this respect, with the acceptance of the legislative improvements, following the remarks made by the Members of the Greater and the Elassian Representation, I believe that we are taking a good step in our foreign policy and with national unity. This is positive for our country and our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u73	And we thank Mrs Giannakou. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, now has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Merra25 will vote 'yes' of course for the extension to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea for the same reason that no serious person has the right to object to the administration of aspirin to cancer. It's not bad, but it's still off the main theme. The main issue we all know is the Aegean. We are watching with interest the reopening of the exploratory talks, the fact that we have a slight recession in tensions, which is, of course, a form of settlement on the part of Ankara, is not bad. What is bad is that there is no national strategy or there is a national strategy that has been chartered for too long. We tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, from the beginning of this parliamentary term and the previous ones. They're dragging you into bilateral negotiations on Ms. Merkel's battalion and on Mr. Biden's background. We have no problem with any kind of negotiation that can bring about a reduction in tensions, a divergence of risks and a dignified and mutually beneficial agreement. Just, these bilateral talks with Ankara, at least at this juncture, are impossible to do anything but increase tensions. The reason is simple. You know very well that Ankara in the bilateral negotiations will present to the table a number of issues that will force you either to give in in a way that neither your party will accept nor discontinue talks, which will in the long term increase tensions. We at Mera25 say and say again and suggest that Athens should have proposed convening a regional conference of all the countries bordering the Eastern Mediterranean for a long time. We had proposed to invite all parties in Thessaloniki to a joint map to record the disagreements on a single issue, demarcation of the marine veil zones, with the aim of recording disputes within a multitude of shared agreed bilateral limits or disagreements on these bilateral limits and, in the background, the possibility of appealing to The Hague with a request to co-convene together and in pairs of any disputes. Such an invitation to Turkey as well, but in all the Eastern Mediterranean countries it can produce two possible results. One possibility is that Turkey will also be accepted, which would be a wishful task. Immediately the tension is diversified and the Dodecanese, Thrace and the so-called gray zones, Gadupoulou and so on, leave the debate table. And the other is in the worst of cases Mr Erdogan says "no, I do not come because Cyprus will be there" or "I do not come for the first or the second reason". Immediately Greece would have won points in the chess board of international public opinion. Let him say no. Because if we do not make such a proposal, we will have to say no before or during the bilateral negotiations with Berlin or Washington. We at Mera25 on the one hand say no to endlessness which is an integral part of the bilateral negotiations. We say no to 'yes' to 'yes' to all' in Berlin and Washington, because through Berlin and Washington there will be an agenda which you can't raise, where the Dodecanese will also be there, and the gray zones will also be there. We say, therefore, not in endlessness, because endlessness will bring tension, it will bring about escalation and not degrade tensions. At the same time, of course, with all of us, we are saying no to nationalist cries, because nationalist cries - that has proved history - are the preamble to endlessness. Not to say that in other times of our history, nationalist cries have also led to the dominance. So not in endodus, not in the nationalist cries that will bring the endlessness that will bring failure, dangers, and tension. We at Mer25 say: do you want a real national strategy with a vision of national security? Here today, unilaterally - on maps, not theoretically - what are the maximum claims of our country and state what we see as casus belli? Turkey is doing it. When will we finally state what actions and where if they are done automatically trigger a reaction from the Greek Armed Forces? I am not saying that we are a pillow man, but at some point we have to draw up red lines, because if you don't make the red lines, either in the Eurogroup or in the negotiations with Ankara, you don't negotiate, you become a voyage. I think that's the big deal. For the twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, Sophia Sakorafa spoke on behalf of Mera25, the rest of our MPs will be placed. It's a well-known place. We will be voting in favour of it. Mr President, in my time, I would like to turn to the other major question which we discussed last Friday at the level of political leaders in the process of vaccination. It may be outside the theme of this draft law, but it is the major issue, not to say to you that it has, in the final analysis, an impact on the viability of this economy, on the viability of this country. Last Friday - it was the Prime Minister here - I submitted some information that the government did not question, some information about how many people we will get out of here if we manage to increase the number of vaccinations to 40 000 a day. I said we'd save 20 of the hundred people we'd lose if we could do that. I told the Prime Minister that a lot of time has already been lost, to see where we're going. We have not succeeded in showing even a quarter, not even a fifth of this number of vaccinations a day that would be necessary to save people and, of course, to be able to talk about opening up the economy. Allow a personal story, because I think personal stories also have political significance, because I can testify to it not as something I read, but as something I have lived on. Yesterday I took my ninety-five-year-old father to the "Dromocaete" for his vaccination. Excellent people there, I have to tell you. Indeed, the system worked very well, the vaccination took place, until the doctors and nurses started talking to me. Their situation has been despaired, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you have not kept your word. You talked about about about a thousand 50 centers and you didn't fix them. Use existing hospitals to do the work that should be done, according to yours. We were talking about a network of public mass testing centres, which would be converted into vaccination centres then, and later on, it would be the dowry of the primary ESS. You spoke about about a thousand and fifty centres, but you did not. And there was not even an apology on behalf of Mr Kikilia or Mr Mitsotakis. It doesn't matter. It matters where we are now. At the "Dromocaete" - I will say, because I promised people that I would look into you in the eyes and bring it to you - they are two doctors and a general doctor for seven hundred and fifty people in the psychiatric clinic - if you put the staff and the patients - who are asked to raise all this weight of medical support. Of course, people also agreed to raise the burden of vaccination for all these people. Some hours before the vaccination of personnel and patients begins, these two people learn that they are being converted into a vaccination centre for the wider region. Mercy! I will pass this on to you as a word they have told me. I said last Friday that we, beyond our conflicts and beyond the ideological conflicts, will at this very last moment support the effort to have a vaccination rate, a number of vaccinations every day that can ensure that we save some people and under conditions for nursing staff and for doctors not to exterminate them. Today, it's Tuesday. Every day that passes, we lose people. Every day it passes, our doctors, such as those I met yesterday, who are truly heroes - and you admit it - feel more and more left over from you, from the state and, of course, from us all in the political scene. This is a huge failure of the Greek state, a huge failure and a failure criminal - I would say - of the Greek political system. In all of this, I was called yesterday morning by the 'BBC' to comment on the proposal by the Prime Minister to the European Commission for a vaccination passport. I have no wish to go to the 'BBC' and to criticise my country. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, gather your Prime Minister. Is it possible to table such a proposal? Does he have people next to him who think? We are evidently in favour of vaccines. I, in fact, even more than most of the members of Mera25 said - and I did - that I will be one of the first to be vaccinated, not to save myself, but to support the case of vaccination. But when the Prime Minister comes out and proposes to the Commission the introduction of a vaccination passport, does he not understand that he undermines the attempt to vaccinate? And I'll explain what I mean by that. First of all, it's a foolish idea. Mr. Mitsotakis must be ashamed of. Because scientists, who have really done an excellent job in producing the vaccine and in controlling its safety and effectiveness, who know that it is both safe and effective, at least those three, which have been approved or are in the authorisation process, are telling us that they cannot certify that I am vaccinated, I will not stick to you who are not. They can't certify that. Mr. Mitsotakis has decided that he can testify? Suppose I have a certificate that says I'm vaccinated. Am I not wearing a mask anymore? Will Mr. Mitsotakis say that? What right? What if I catch someone? Because I'm vaccinated, I may not be at the same risk. Will we bring tourists with these certificates, vaccination passports without knowing whether they transmit or not? And that, when the scientists who produce the vaccines themselves tell you they don't know, they can't tell you that it's a safe case of work that the vaccinated doesn't fit. That's the first, an nonsense. Secondly, with the people who have passed COVID 19, who have patient and have antibodies and are not stuck, and there is no reason to be vaccinated and we do not allow them to be vaccinated, because he says to you 'when you have antibodies, leave the vaccine for someone else', will he get a vaccination passport or will you say 'you can't and you won't travel'? Did the Prime Minister think of that? It's a disgrace. These are basic failures. Thirdly, we are going to liberalism, but in the sense of liberalism that the New Democracy cannot arrest, because it invokes it without being able to realize it. Just think of Pandora's box that would open up such a vaccination passport. Consider whether we accept the idea that you are being asked, as a passport asks, to go from one country to another, outside Schengen - of course now which Schengen is? It's over, but, anyway, they're gonna ask you for a corresponding passport with personal medical evidence in it. Today, it's COVID 19. Tomorrow it will be COVID 20. Are we gonna put COVID 20 in? Are we going to put on more diseases? Insurance companies know that they would love us to be absolutely transparent and to be released as if we were a record of medical data so that they could invoice us according to their own maximum interests. What pandora's box do you open when you're talking about a vaccination passport? If we have this, will we also be able to use it in Greece? How will you stop a company, a body from saying 'if you don't have this vaccination passport, don't you go in'? You can't do that. We at Mera25 tell you and we tell you again that it is time to say no to the European Union, to open your mouth a little bit and say something different to 'yes' to 'yes' to everything. Once your Prime Minister opened his mouth and spoke and "engineered". He's better off talking. I'm going back to the subject. It's absolutely important that you get serious right now. The rate of vaccinations, the rate of vaccination of the Greek population is a fiasco at the moment. It doesn't matter who wins points and who loses points. Greece is losing. Be serious. One word: Be serious! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u75	And we thank Mr. Varoufakis. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Yiannis Ragossis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. With what he said today in plenary, but also in the committee in the last few days, the Foreign Minister of our Party, the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Katrugalos, and the fellow Members who have spoken, I will just be allowed to add some thoughts and points on what has already been heard. First of all, we are talking about a historic moment. The government is using this terminology very strongly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Look, it is true that history does not go beyond such states' decisions. However, it is also true that when the historian of the future stands above this decision and opens up the dossier "spatial waters, expansion of territorial waters" not only will he stand in the first chapter, in order to draw its conclusions and give his judgment, the first chapter, i.e. the chapter relating to the extension to the Ionian Sea, but he will open or wait to judge the second chapter as well. And the second chapter is no other than the Aegean, which is clearly, as we all know very well, and the most difficult one. That is why I think it would be much more prudent in terms of the government majority to keep very low tones, at least as long as it still does not even show what this second chapter may contain in terms of final result. Secondly, I would like to make a second point, ladies and gentlemen, which could begin with the words 'welcome to nationalism', welcome to what you described as nationalism in an unacceptable way. And I say 'you', because when a leading minister of a government comes out and characterises the twelve miles as nationalism and blames the Civic Opposition, the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, in this case the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr. Tsipras, who had made the proposal, to extend the territorial waters and south and east of Crete and is coming to the top minister, and this is what is termed 'nationalism', and there is no reaction by the Government, there is no response from the Government itself and from Mr. Teddy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and today we see that what was then mentioned or reported as nationalism is being implemented, then I think that it fits the phrase - peripherically and gargically - 'welcome' to this type of logic that you have allegedly accused us of having. And today, especially for the first time - as Mr Katrugalos pointed out - Mr. Dendias acknowledged that the intention is to make this expansion of the gyalitis zone east and east of Crete, and I think that what you should at least have said would be an expression of public self-criticism about the way in which you handled these very serious national issues, I mean how irresponsible you should. Thirdly, to tell the truth about it too. The 'no' of the New Republic to the extension of twelve miles to the Ionian Sea was not a circumstantial one, i.e. on a juncture-based basis. It was not a 'no' type of 'don't do it now, do it later.' It was not a 'no' type of 'don't do it like that, do it otherwise. It was a 'no' in principle, and no one has any doubt - I think that in fact you too want to be very honest, you will recognize that - that if there were time for the legislative initiatives to extend the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea to twelve miles, you would have voted 'no'. You would have voted 'no'. That's the reality. Also, it's real and something else. What was your main argument, to see how exposed, brutally exposed, you are once again in the accusation that you are an irresponsible party, when it comes to the time and time of critical national issues to decide and make decisions on them? What were you talking about? What was your main argument? That we should not do this because we will give Turkey the wrong signal when it comes to discussing the Aegean, because it will be like recognising its basic argument that the Aegean is a special case. So what happens now? What, then, is the punishment of the very life that is imposed on you? It is now that, dear fellow Members and colleagues, the New Democracy and the Mitsotakis Government not only bring about a law to extend the twelve miles to the Ionian Sea, but it does it exactly the days when the exploratory with Turkey is relaunching! Is it true that investigatives for Turkey start at the point they stayed in 2016? As far as 'inside the room' is concerned, yes, they are accurate. That is why we, at the very first moment, in a way that in no way reminds us of New Democracy, rushed to say that, yes, we welcome the reopening of the exploratory talks. However, in the very critical issues related to this area called "outside room" exploratory, no, it is not true that the investigations start where they stopped in 2016. Because in 2016 - and that is what I mean - Turkey had not researched the Greek continent, it had not reached six miles from Kastelorizo and seven miles from Rhodes. Greece, too, has unfortunately not failed in its attempt to impose sanctions on Turkey for its totally illegal conduct in the Eastern Mediterranean Seas. Therefore, it is a fact - and we do not hide the truth or continue to enlighten the situation because it suits government propaganda - that Greece comes diplomaticly weakened in this new round of exploratory talks. And it is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that whoever puts the dilemmas, whoever gets to a debate, at a test, in a negotiation, in a conversation to be the one to put the dilemma, is the one who gets the great advantage to get the answer he wants to get the answer he wants. And those who think that Turks are contradictory are wrong. They're not contradictory at all. They are very clean, with very specific strategy and in the direction they have set they are constantly walking. Yesterday, before the German Foreign Minister, the Turks did not simply pose another threat to Greece. In fact, they did something much bigger - someone would say - strategically important. They put the dilemma. They set the dilemma before the Foreign Minister and, yes, the Germans did not respond, the German Foreign Minister did not respond. And in this sense - in reply to Mrs Bakoyannis as well - we must also say the truth that this mungamara of the German Foreign Minister is also shouting about the responsibilities of the Greek Government. Why have we reached the point, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the exploratory contacts with Turkey, one of our most important allies in the European Union to be a mute, when the Turkish Foreign Minister unfolds the dilemma and the threats again against our country, then this is not only a matter that we need to see to blame the German Foreign Minister, but it is also a question that highlights the responsibilities of the Greek Government that we have come to live through, that is, the responsibility for 'where is the political alliance'? In other words, if failure to political alliances starts from failure to impose sanctions and reaches the neutrality of the partners in the face of these threats, when this dilemma is in place on the part of Turkey, then, yes, there is also a question of government responsibility. The Turks are very clean. They put their own dilemma and said and said yesterday in front of the German, in front of us and the entire international community: Or a compromise outside of international law or conflict. And so the Greek dilemma, which should also be a European dilemma towards Turkey, is "the agreement based on international law or sanctions" which has been marginalized, is almost out of the European public debate. Well, if this is not a matter from which directly government responsibilities arise, then what else is it? But that's all it was. How many times has George Katrugalos and Alexis Tsipras put forward the reproach that you do not have a strategy and that is why Greece currently has a government because of which the country is not moving with a specific strategy? Let us say a little what that means, because we often say it from an acquired speed, given that it is understood, especially by the citizens. So let me take the case of the category of citizens who do not understand what 'we have no strategy' means, for which we have been blaming you all this time. I will simply say to you, ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean that you do not have a strategy and that Greece because of you is currently going without a strategy? When the 'ORUC REIS' came out of the summer and started illegal investigations, in our opinion and under International Law, then not only did the Greek fleet come out in August, but Mr Mitsotakis was out with statements - on 12-8-2020 - 'Greek is not blackmailed', "No challenge unanswered, the Prime Minister" and Mr. Dendias said on 11-8-2020, "we call on Turkey to leave the Greek continent, there will be no tolerance" and the fleet outside! These in August, early August. And where were they called by an oral Greek government, the 'ORUC REIS'? Too far - he had just launched the investigations from Kastelorizo. When the "ORUC REIS" arrived out of Kastelorizo at six miles, what did the Greek Government say by the mouth of Mr. Gerapetritis? "These are the red lines for Greece, the six nautical miles." These statements here, the sequence of these statements, the unresolvedness of these statements - where those statements started, when the 'ORUC REIS' was far from Kastelorizo and where they arrived, when the 'ORUC REIS' was outside Kastelorizo - is the ultimate proof that you have no strategy. Because if you had strategy, you wouldn't say what you were saying when the "ORUC REIS" was so far from Kastelorizo and you would conclude that the red line was six miles, when the "ORUC REIS" was outside Kastelorizo. I shall end, Mr President, with an epilogue, because it is a fact that, on the occasion of such a bill, it is always beginning or has to start an attempt to look at things in the long run. I will say very briefly: A macroscopic glimpse in the approximately half-century of post-multipleism leads very easily to the conclusion that this society, the Greek society, this people, this nation, if it faced two acute national problems during these decades, was Macedonian and bankruptcy. These two - in my opinion at all accidentally - were not born or developed, as they have evolved, rather than in the hands of the governments of the Right in Greece, the governments of the New Democracy. In fact, when these most acute national problems and Macedonian and bankruptcy were born, the New Democracy's reaction was identical. First stage, they create them, they create them, second stage, they stand up and they leave. They delivered the hot potato for one and the other to the progressive arrangement that in those years the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou had as the dominant version of the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou was still alive. The second of bankruptcy was handed over to the progressive party. It was split in years, a part of the responsibility took over then in the first few years of PASOK, then SYRIZA took over to do what? To solve these problems and Macedonian and bankruptcy. So the New Democracy that created them, the New Democracy that stood up and left, so that the responsibility and the cost of solving them are not borne, what did it then do? He went across the street for both of them and he was rocking! The solution of the Macedonian, the solution of the agreement with the Prespecies Agreement, based on the national strategy, came. The New Democracy, in whose hands over the government of Constantine Mitsotakis and Antonis Samaras was born, had created the new version, the recent version of this problem, stood up and left, and when the solution came, it rocked the streets. The same happened with bankruptcy. So I say these things, because I think it results from an eyeless eye - one really would say a chance, for which everyone should say one thing, 'I hope that Greece and the Greek people will live this,' to be the problem with Turkey, the Greek-Turkish conflict and illegal Turkish aggression the third evil, which can evolve - and we are all desperate to evolve - in a way harmful to our national interests and to the Greek people, for which you will again follow the path that you have taken in the previous two. So the wish is not to trim the evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. The Member of the Change Movement will now be given the floor, Mr. Dimitrios Biagis, then Mr. Stefanos Gikas from New Democracy and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Viliardos. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are deciding in the Greek Parliament to determine the range of hayalitis in the Ionian Sea region and the Ionian Islands, from the crossing of the islands, the Ottomans, Irikusa and Mathiraki, to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. It is an act that is an important development for our foreign policy and our country. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to talk about the reason for the truth, referring to a successful foreign policy account, then in no case should we make the tragic and, at the same time, historical mistake to cut our country's sovereignty in maritime waters only on the one hand, namely, from the Ionian Sea, but to see our decision today as part of our overall strategy to safeguard our sovereign rights, according to International Law, throughout the whole territory and to the south and east. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we find that since 1994, the PASOK government and the then Foreign Minister, Carolou Papoulias, Greece has been following a stable and intransigent attitude of six nautical miles or otherwise with the expression 'everywhere or nowhere'. In short, this was the political line of a wider strategy of politics and diplomacy, which was clear, clear, fully delimited, fully in-depth, with respect for International Law and the Law of the Sea. In recent times, developments have shown us many times that our foreign policy needs to change, to acquire active features, especially after the False Pact of Turkey and Libya and the developments that this could mark. Following the moves, choices and initiatives of the head of our foreign policy and my short-term, Corfu Foreign Minister, Nikos Treasury, I would like to believe that today's decision is only a part of a broader framework and strategy for Greek foreign policy and diplomacy. To be clearer and understandable, by following the procedures of the committee, I have often seen the rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, ask the Foreign Minister if the twelve-mile strategy is the same for Crete and the Aegean. So, Minister, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out, you are omissioning the area under Tinaro to the west of Crete? And I could say to the south of Crete, where our agreement with Egypt begins. Why do you not present us with an overall framework or rather an overall policy to define all maritime borders? So why bring us to ratify a partial declaration of sea borders and omit the southern region from Crete below? Ladies and gentlemen, our country is experiencing difficult historical times. Greece is constantly at the threat of casus belli from its neighbour Turkey. The need for a specific, targeted, fully defined foreign policy strategy, with respect for International Law and the Law of the Sea, is considered imperative. Our sovereign rights are constantly questioned. We are watching the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, even using these migratory flows, in order to intensify his pursuits, increase the challenges in the Aegean every day, and even speaks of the revision of the Lausanne Treaty. It seems clear from all the above that the issue of Greek-Turkish relations will continue to be at the top of the political agenda. Minister, we must adopt a clear national strategy for our foreign policy, and indeed, with our flag, our time-consuming commitment and our respect, which we historically have shown, in international legality and in the rules of international law. Greece voted for the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We have condemned it, ratified it, and on the other hand Turkey has done nothing of it. Should all this at the end be the beginning of the end against Turkish provocativeness? Should all of this be our strongest response to our foreign policy? Ladies and gentlemen, every move in our foreign policy must be stable, it must be permanent. So the present extension of the twelve village miles to the Ionian Sea is due to be incorporated into a wider national planning. Our country respects international law without discounts, knows how to defend its sovereign rights and, at the same time, is a firm point of reference and a power of responsibility and of peace in the region. This must be our timeless weapon, this must be our foreign policy weapon. So the extension of our maritime sovereignty to the Ionian Sea is the beginning of the incentive to delimit our sovereign rights and to resolve the bilateral problems we face with our eastern neighbour Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my speech, I would like to convey to you, as a Ionian Member, the concern caused by Article 4 of the current bill which gives the Minister for Rural Development and Food the power to decide and allow fishing within our sea waters in fishermen from other countries of the European Union. It is worth stressing that, in our current decision, we reserve our sovereign rights at twelve nautical miles, but leaving a window to fishermen from other countries of the European Union, see Italy, as to the possibility of entering our territorial waters to fish. Now this is clearly at the discretion of the Greek Government, or better of the Minister, to decide whether or not from which countries and how long some will be able to fish in Greek sea waters. And given that, Minister, the Greek fishermen are a limited-capacity working area, and spatially and economically, since the majority of them are active within the maritime borders and few are able to slip through the maritime borders of our country, we do not deprive them of this power by depleting this provision to their livelihoods. In short, knowing the specificities of the region, I would like to stress the need, given the Minister's authorisation, not to grant an inexhaustible fishing licence, without taking first account of the needs of our own Greek fishermen. In closing my position as a Ionian Stateer and citizen, but also as a member of the Progressive Party, which has always been present in the major battles on national issues, I cannot and cannot vote against this agreement that extends our maritime borders to the Ionian Sea. It is our responsibility to see how we are to associate coordinates and homonymously for the expansion of our sovereign rights both in the Aegean and in Crete. Let International Law be our compass, the Law of the Sea be our starting point. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Biaghy. And then the Corfiot colleague, Mr. Biagi, from the Change Movement, again a Corfu MP, has the floor, MP Kirkras of the New Democracy Mr. Stefanos Gikas. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman saying that Greece is coming at a weakened state of investigation and I really wonder why. It is hardly possible that the country is at a better level than in all previous years. The sanctions of the United States are in action, there is the threat of sanctions by the European Union, the entire international community has actually taken the part of the country, because we have always been guided by international law, such as all the major countries in the region, and of course the Greek diplomacy has leaked it over time has been able to win significant victories for national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle of political analysis and study is that politics is adapted to the abstractions of times and in particular foreign policy is associated with and influenced by many factors and should therefore not be considered in fragmentation. Of course, stables remain unchanged, namely the absolute safeguarding of national sovereign rights and the application of international law. In this case of the bill we are debating today and given the circumstances that we have all experienced and which have nothing to do with 2018, namely the events in Evros, the events in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the provocative and dangerous acts of Turkey, the illegal Turkish memorandum and but have imposed the partial approach and settlement of outstanding issues, but still unaltered. Because the Government of New Democracy is implementing an extremely active and active foreign policy, actively participating in all diplomatic and international forums, by developing closer relations with important countries in our wider neighbourhood, by concluding agreements of substantial cooperation, not on paper and methodically on the basis of a plan and by decisively resolve decades and adapting our moves and our policy to the prevailing conditions by guaranteeing the rights of the country. In this context, last year Greece has come to the definition of maritime zones with Italy, to the partial delimitation of EEZs with Egypt, which in essence annulled the illegal Turkish- Libyan memorandum, to the conclusion of strategic agreements with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Israel and, of course, the United States, to the strengthening of bilateral, tripartite and multilateral strategic cooperation schemes with countries in the wider region, while Albania has agreed to bring our disputes to an end. Now the draft law on the expansion of the yacht zone in the Ionian region from six to twelve nautical miles is indeed historic, as it is the first time since 1947 that our country has been expanding its territory and even by thirteen thousand square kilometres, as the Minister said. It is very important and it must be stressed that by using our right to extend the yacht zone from six to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, the country does not give up its right to the other regions. This, moreover, is reflected in Article 1 of the bill, where it is clearly stated that the Hellenic Republic is reserved for the exercise in the other areas of its territory of the respective rights, as they arise under international law. And I am absolutely certain that it will shortly follow the new step towards extending our territorial waters south of Crete and not just. To date, the vast majority of states have 12 nautical miles of hayalitis. But we stayed at six since 1936. In fact, it is of particular interest to repeat what I said to the Committee of Parliament, that Turkey itself, by means of a solemn declaration in 1956, said that the twelve-mile limit has already acquired the general practice needed to be accepted as the rule of International Law. Watch out, 1936! Therefore, the expansion of the kayalitis zone and the sovereignty of Greece certainly also increase the potential for activity in important areas, such as fisheries, energy and the environment. As you can see, the widening potential will also have a positive impact on our economy. This historic decision, ladies and gentlemen, also positively affects our constituency, Corfu, where the yacht is spreading across all our islands. This is a political event which is particularly moved by the inhabitants of Corfu, the Paxes and the Diapondent Islands. It's a bill brought by our co-rapporteur, Mr. Dendias. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has returned a page, proving every day all areas, but in particular with regard to national issues, that it does not intend to continue to be the mere observer of developments. Our Government acts resolutely, taking advantage of our national interest the rights deriving from international law, acting accordingly within its framework. The Members of this House have the privilege and honour, I would say, to participate in this debate and in the vote on this excellent historically important bill. I would like to believe that it will be voted for by an absolute majority of the Greek Parliament because that is precisely what this national interest is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u81	And we thank Mr. Ghika. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, now has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. As a SYRIZA colleague referred to the issue, I would like to say that Macedonia's name was clearly exchanged with the extension of 95 billion for after 2032. The economic cost of this agreement - apart from the national costs - seems to be enough to ask Macedonia's food and drink business. He'll get a very good answer. We will now begin now entirely differently with Greece's exploratory discussions with Turkey because it was mentioned in the debate earlier. Greece must not keep any hope of a substantial result from the theatrical performance of the sixty-first round of the so-called Greek-Turkey negotiations. The meeting takes place because it serves both countries in the short term. Turkey is in an extremely difficult position both within it, especially in terms of its economy and currency, and abroad with the adventures to which its regime has led it, because it is a regime and a state of affairs. In various countries, it is urgently necessary to appear peaceful in order to unload the intolerable and very annoying pressures that it is taking from America, from Europe and from the Middle East, without at the same time feeling any security to support Russia or China. On the other hand, Greece needs time to complete its defensive armour so that it is ready in the new wave of Turkish aggression and intransigence that will definitely follow again either with today's dictator in power or with some other coalition of parties that will, as always, have the same perceptions. Furthermore, it has an obligation, under international law, to agree with Turkey on both continental and exclusive economic zone issues, maintaining the right to unilaterally extend its territorial waters to twelve miles when it decides. In fact, we have ever thought about what Turkey would do if it had on its part International Law, if it held a number of islands with EEZ as defined by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, namely that all the islands have an EEZ in the same way as defined for the Continental regions? Would it not be worth any discussion that would not guarantee 100% of the rights granted to it under International Law, if it has 200%? Would it not categorically reject any solution that would adversely affect, even infinitely, all its internationally established rights, without entering any debate which would have the effect of sharing its existing rights and rights? In any case, however, the period is particularly favourable for important steps in creating a diplomatic, military and political shield against the magnanimity of modern Turkey. As regards Mrs Bakoyannis's reference to the German Foreign Minister, I would like to say that Germany has never been and will never be a friend of ours, especially now that we are under its economic occupation while it has always been and will always be an ally of Turkey. In this bill now, Article 1 refers to a partial extension of the Greek gyalitis zone. This is therefore a partial foreign policy and a partial governance. The government will, of course, support - and it has already done - that the explicit reference to paragraph 2 concerning the reservation, extension and extension of the other parts of our territory also covers our country, but that in no case can be accepted on the grounds that international law is basically national. In simple terms, if this situation remains for years, Turkey will be able to claim, either formally or in a legal dispute, that Greece accepts the existing regime in the Aegean. Our concerns are obviously intensified by the fact that the Prime Minister himself told the House in October that, in relation to the Aegean, the sovereignty of our country extends six miles to the sea and ten miles to the air, while the Minister for Civil Protection mentioned - we all know - to the nationalism of the twelve nautical miles. In our view, extending territorial waters is not a right, but a exercise of national sovereignty, since unlike EEZ and the continental continental shelf, territorial waters constitute national sovereignty, full sovereignty on the surface of the sea, on the waters, on the seabed and on the ground. The partial extension obviously creates a presumption of acceptance of the current regime in the Aegean, even if we accept the fear of the government because of Turkey's well-known casus belli, why did not an extension really take place south of Crete? Is the government hiding something from us? The Minister, of course, announced yesterday how he would do it, hoping to keep his promise, and immediately. Analogous is our position for Articles 2 and 3 where yes, the provisions on how to calculate the range of hayalitis and the baseline according to International Law can be classic, but the partiality of the extension cannot be accepted. As far as Article 4 is concerned, the agreement between the two countries on the demarcation of their respective maritime zones is concerned is even worse: the grant of corresponding rights to all fishing vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Union, not only in Italy. In other words, we grant national wealth and part of our national sovereignty, while at the same time seriously damaging Greek fishermen because they will not have exclusive rights in the six to twelve nautical miles area. This is unacceptable, among all, because the Ionian Sea is very rich in fish stocks and even of considerable value, such as the red shrimp, shrimps, crabs and shellfish, which is also in no way acceptable. As far as fisheries are concerned, however, we need to see the conflict between the European Union and Great Britain in relation to Brexit in terms of fisheries, which ultimately resulted in a compromise, but to the extent that the fishing areas that we have not defined are of great value. The European Union Directive No 1380/2013, referred to in the Treaty with Italy, states that the European Union is a member of the UNCLOS Organisation's Maritime Agreement at point 5. It is also stated that the Member States have rights of management within the twelve nautical miles of point forty-one, which states: ‘Member States should be authorised to take in their sea zone of twelve nautical miles’ - I read it precisely - ‘conservation and management measures to be applied to all Union fishing vessels, provided that such measures are applied to Union fishing vessels registered in other Member States, do not discriminatory and implemented after consultation with the other Member States concerned - and that the Union has not taken specific conservation and management measures in the twelve nautical mile zone concerned’. It's clear. Continuing, it is a great impression that the government's change of attitude in relation to the recent past. In particular, our rapporteur also mentioned the fact that Mr Kumoucaskos, as the Head of State of State of the New Democracy at the time, referred to cheap impressions that undermine fundamental positions of our foreign policy. That's exactly what he said. In addition, Mr. Georgiadis stressed in October 2018 that it is a great damage that Mr. Kotzias distinguished from the Aegean Sea for the twelve miles, while Mr. Pilaris argued that by extending the hayalitis zone to twelve miles he accepted - he meant SYRIZA - that the Aegean is a special case. On the same line, Mr. Syrigos said it would be a mistake to exclude the Aegean from the expansion of the territorial waters, since he would confirm that the special conditions of the Turks apply in the Aegean, supporting the Turkish position. Finally, Mr Kikilias said: it is not so a serious foreign policy, creating a fait accompli and acceding to Turkey's arguments on special status in the Aegean. There were many other such statements, but we only got some of them. So what took place and all this ceased to be the case? Is it not clear that if we want to solve the problem with Turkey, we should exercise all our sovereign rights? Do we not accept de facto the 'grass' and the neutralisation of the Aegean? Is it not the definition of populism that one should interpret the issues differently from election and post-election, as in the case of Skopje? Wasn't that the same thing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] As an example now, among the many that exist, we will mention the island of Bornholm in Denmark, which has thirty-nine thousand inhabitants and is located at a distance of ninety miles from mainland Denmark. Sweden is being pushed 40 miles [40 km] away, at 10 km [10 km] is mainland Germany and at 100 km [100 km] Poland. In this respect, the dispute with Poland on the EEZ of the island has recently been settled, after limits have been laid down under the law of the UN seas, which also covers rock islands, as is seen from the document we will be tabling in the Minutes. Finally, it is clear that the Greek Solution has a completely different political concept from the government in almost all issues, in the economy, in national, in health and so on. Among other things, he believes in the true free market and not in an excessively enlarged state, such as what New Democracy rebuilt, without having learned anything from the overcompensation that he caused in the country with the same policy in 2004-2009, from the memoranda or from the bankruptcy of 2012 with the surrender of our national sovereignty and the mortgage of everything. This is seen by the celebrations of its ministers following the communication of a primary deficit of EUR 18.2 billion in 2020, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, despite the fact that this means a budget deficit - after taxes, i.e., more than EUR 24 billion. Within a year, the country lost over EUR 24 billion, even more simply, 15% of GDP when we were condemned to the disastrous Memorandum policy with exactly the same percentage after the enlargement of the deficit by ELSTAT, although then our public debt was at 127% of GDP, when 2020 will exceed 230% of the central government, red private at 15%, and today over 150% of GDP and so on. We are talking about total economic derailment. The Greek Solution believes in the mixed economy and not neoliberalism, in the nation - state, since this alone can guarantee democracy and not uncontrolled globalisation, as well as the immediate need to change our failed economic and tourist model. Greece can and must recover its economic independence, since its national sovereignty depends on it. Our main objective is to create the conditions for raising the standard of living of the Greeks and to return the six hundred thousand people who "exiled" from the memoranda. Finally, we can and must regain our national pride and dignity, cease to bend our heads in Germany or in its always ally, Turkey, since this leads a country to painful adventures without any real reason. In conclusion, despite our reservations, as our rapporteur, Mr Mylonis, said, we will be voting in favour of the Agreement. Mr President, I am tabling the documents referred to above for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u83	We continue the list of fellow Members with Mrs Olympia Tyloridou, MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mrs. Tyloridou, we hear you and we see you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while following the communication tactics of the New Democracy, we note that while it was in the opposition, its biggest goal was to misinform, but also to destroy, in order to hit SYRIZA and have election benefits. As long as the New Democracy is in the government, its greatest goal is to bet on the oblivion of the Greek people to forget everything he said before taking authority. But it is very recent that we can forget about it. In October 2018, the government of SYRIZA, with the choice of then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras announced the choice to promote the exercise of our country's sovereign right to gradually expand the yacht zone to the 12 nautical miles, starting in the Ionian Sea. And the Prime Minister at the time announced that it would precede information and dialogue with the parties, so that we could then proceed with tabling the relevant bill in the House. Faced with this option, which is our inalienable sovereign right under International Law, in 2018 there were very strong opposition from the then-individual opposition, New Democracy, which did not speak much or much about national retreat, and today brings exactly what SYRIZA had chosen. He even speaks today of a historic bill and says it is a great honour to bring it to the Greek Parliament. Then, for example, New Democracy officials, like Mr. Georgiadis, said that SYRIZA stands out for the Ionian Sea and that is wrong. Mr. Koumoutsaskos said: “With unprecedented contempt and carelessness Mr. Kotzias divided the country into the middle. He did so by announcing the expansion of territorial waters only in the Ionian Sea, and indeed with the consent of Mr Tsipras. It has thus enabled Turkey to strengthen its position that the Aegean cannot fully implement the law of the sea and that it is allegedly a special case. Once again, the SYRIZA government... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u85	You've lost your connection, Mrs. Tyloridou. We don't see you, we don't hear you. Therefore, we will continue with the next speaker until the connection is restored to complete your position, my colleague. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Nikolaos Manolakos. Mr. Manolak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day, since the House with a very large majority, it seems, will ratify the first extension of our territorial waters after the vote of the Sea Law in Montego Bay in 1982. In other words, it has had to be almost forty years, to change seventeen governments, to have debates, to have too much ink to come up with today's result, which may not be the expansion of territorial waters across Greece, but it is a start, a start that came from our Government after a year and a half of fire preparation, contacts and agreements with Italy, with Egypt, but also with Albania for recourse to The Hague. Preparation, therefore, has been followed and I cannot see who the Acoustic Opposition is mocking by saying that they were ready and themselves to bring the matter up when they ruled, but they retreated in front of the negative position of the New Democracy. Obviously they refer to the "freight" of the then Foreign Minister for the Presidential Ordinances on the extension of territorial waters, which he left to the then Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, but which he put into the timeframe. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that national issues are not your place. So stop hypocrisy. You have spent history as the ones who delivered ethnicity and language with the Prespecies Agreement. So many governments went by and none dared to do so. You have done so, despite the opposition of the overwhelming majority of the political forces and despite the reaction of the Greek people and you are now coming and tell us that you have not moved on to the expansion of the territorial waters because you have been stopped by the negative position of the New Democracy. Let's bring it to the House by law and let us be exposed! Retrospective lions? Secure micropolitics? Ladies and gentlemen, these days there is a lot of talk about relaunching the investigative contacts. This is a particularly important moment, since exploratory contacts are the introduction to the main negotiations. Why did Turkey suddenly remember the exploratory contacts that it had forgotten for four years? What happened and she remembered them? Nothing shocking is simply under pressure both inside and abroad and wore the mask of dialogue. The ovarian changes of Erdogan, after all, are common. They don't surprise us anymore. Now he's about to hug with McCron, who was a psychopath a while ago, called him "fascist" and "minimum". Any minute, we'll see him as a fanatical supporter of Biden. So why is he doing it? It does so to welcome the new government of the United States, but also to enable Germany and its group within the European Union not to proceed with sanctions, but to relaunch the procedures for Turkey's European perspective. The question arises: What, then, should we do? Not to go into the exploratory and give the international player the right to think that we do not want dialogue, obviously because we fear something? I think our government is right to engage in exploratory contacts to give a chance to dialogue. The communication channels must exist in order to reduce the tension. After all, Greece, as we have heard by an oral Prime Minister, but also a Foreign Minister, will not discuss any other matter, not just maritime zones. Since Turkey is going to come across the table by spreading all the unilateral claims it has made, "differences", it is certain that the contacts will pave and either lead to The Hague or return to the pre-start situation. After all, what has been added to finding a solution to something that has not been found for sixteen years? Nothing positive but negative, such as the story of the 'Blueland', the increased aggression, the 'working' of immigration, the illegal Turkish pact and the sea walks of 'ORUC REIS' on the Greek continental continent. All this doesn't make me optimistic. I will add to the positive for us that in any case we win a few months to continue our preparations in order to further strengthen our new alliances with Israel, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. But, Mr President, the most important thing is that we will continue rapidly to strengthen our Armed Forces, which is the most effective means of preventing and supporting diplomacy at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying that I welcome the extension of our territorial waters to Tainaro, and we are soon looking forward to further expansion to the south and east of Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u87	And we thank Mr Manolaco. I wanted to ask whether she is listening to us and whether Mrs Tylorid is seeing us so that she can continue her intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I do not know how much time I have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u89	You had spoken for three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u90	I would like to say that we have a different attitude from New Democracy. So this attitude is a attitude which, in our view, does not show any seriousness and responsibility, because it is not possible for national affairs to have a different attitude as long as you are in the government and as different as you were in the opposition. The Greek people, of course, know, now have the crisis to see this ravage. We, for our part, are a responsible force, which does not bet on the division of Greek society to have micro-party benefits. Of course, we support the extension of the yacht zone to twelve nautical miles, because we have learned to put our backs on and support the national effort, but an effort, which should be based on a single national strategy. We therefore welcome the accession of New Democracy to this important strategic choice of the SYRIZA government and we are here to unite. So we leave to our political opponents the logic of division. The extension of the gyalitis zone to the Ionian Sea is in the positive direction of serving our national interests. We have an objection to Article 4, to which our rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, referred in detail, on fisheries and on the possibility of catching between six and twelve nautical miles to European Union-wide fishermen. I think that particular attention should be paid to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u91	Mrs. Tyloridou, you've closed your microphone, you're stepping on something without knowing it. Can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u92	Can you hear me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u93	Now I hear you, but make sure you don't close your microphone. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u94	Good. I conclude by saying that we support the extension of the yacht zone to twelve nautical miles, in a very difficult geopolitical environment, which results mainly from Turkey's reviewing and provocative attitude and in the face of international developments, reclassifications and processes affecting our region, we must all make the national effort, based solely on international law, without discounts. From the Step of the Parliament in July 2019 in the government's programming statements I said that we will be in favour of the country's national line, but that it should not be understood to make unconditional and unconditionally conciliation with Mr Erdogan. In the Oriental bazaars you'll find us across the street, and that's what we're saying now. We are therefore discussing with Turkey only one existing dispute and it can be resolved in accordance with International Maritime Law. Any other irrational and unscrupulous demands from Turkey cannot and must not enter the negotiating table. The government and Prime Minister Mitsotakis must completely and unequivocally rule out any Turkish attempt to extend the agenda, whether for grey zones or demilitarised islands. That is what the country's national line demands, and that is what the Greek people think the Greek Government should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u95	We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is of major importance, both historically and in substance. The Greek Parliament will vote for the first time after 1947 to extend the area of national sovereignty. Greece is substantially increasing by about thirteen thousand square kilometres if the legality of international law is taken into account. Our country exercises its inalienable right to increase its territorial waters in the Ionian Sea region from six to twelve nautical miles, in accordance with Article 3 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is a rule of customary international law. This extends our national sovereignty to a very important part of our marine and therefore our airspace. Today's bill gives a clear and strong signal that Greek foreign policy, always acting under international law, will capitalise its diplomatic reserve in the direction of prevalence. Greece is right to pursue the policy of open dialogue and building strong diplomatic relations with forces in the wider Mediterranean region. In other words, at a time of critical geopolitical changes it is investing more in deepening the European Union's strong, coherent policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the government gradually closes the outstanding issues with neighbouring states and moves towards an integrated strategy. He signed an agreement demarcation of maritime zones with Italy and Egypt, while the procedures for dialogue and resolution of demarcation of maritime zones have started with Albania with the International Court of Justice of The Hague. It seeks consensus with neighbouring countries, concludes agreements with them on demarcation of maritime zones, promotes good neighbourly relations and promotes security, prosperity and cooperation between countries in the region. This and it will continue to do, as it fully retains its right to extend territorial waters to other regions, such as the Aegean, and to the south and east of Crete, when it is of course considered beneficial to national interests. It is something that is clearly mentioned in Article 1 of the bill. After all, this right has already been exercised by many states, including Turkey itself, which since 1964 has extended its territorial waters to the Black Sea and the Mediterranean at twelve nautical miles, but which quite arbitrarily considers casus belli to the Aegean region. Greece, however, is a strong country and will continue to defend its interests effectively. And that is something Turkey needs to understand. It will continue with its clear and confident positions, exploratory contacts with Turkey, which is in a difficult position both in relation to Europe and in relation to America. Our country has always been open in dialogue with Turkey on specific issues, continental and EEZ, but with a Turkey that respects the rules, respects international law and converges with Europe. And that is something that serves national interests. In this context, the importance of the exploratory contacts is evolving into a fairly important factor in the general course of Greek-Turkish relations, since Ankara, of course, accepts a specific framework of real differences, that is, continental shelf and AEZ, and, of course, stop proclaiming every unilateral claim as an allegedly bilateral dispute. Moreover, the improvement of Euro-Turkish relations and Turkey's European path goes, among other things, through the real improvement of its relations with the Member States of the Union, such as Greece. And if the appeal to the International Court of The Hague is agreed, Turkey will have effectively accepted a prospect of a solution based on international law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is taking the vote on today's bill of national unity, and this is the key message in all directions, that Greece is moving on to the issues of the exercise and extension of its national sovereignty by drawing up a plan and national understanding. In these unprecedented conditions we are experiencing because of the pandemic, we have to deal effectively with multiple and heterogeneous challenges and that can only be achieved with national unity. In this protracted crisis caused by Turkey, the Greek Government should continue to act strategically on its allies, to indicate that the issue of Turkish reform is neither bilateral nor that it effectively undermines the development of the European vision. Greece was and is a crucial strategic factor in defending the European structure in the wider Mediterranean region. It is, at the same time, a strategic factor in promoting the economic interests and perceptions of united Europe. So we must, with coolness and realism, continue this battle, as forcefully and above all united together as today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u97	We are also grateful to Mrs Kefaliannis and to the time being, enabling more colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Loverdo, do you want the floor for a point of order? You can't talk about anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u100	Yes, for a point of order, Mr President. Since I am rapporteur I would like to ask you: will you follow the standard practice when the debate is two days or three days, that is to say, that we recommend that the list of speakers should be interrupted, that we do the abbreviations tomorrow morning and that the list should continue? How are you going to get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u101	No, the initial thought, at least my own, because I was asked by another colleague, is that the list should be over, because they are scheduled cycles and after the closure of the list there should be a dentistry of the rapporteurs. So, you're suggesting that there should be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u102	I'm not suggesting anything you say. I, Mr President, spoke at the outset today and would like to put myself on the articles. My party has not been placed on the articles. If you tell me about a period of three or six minutes, I don't have time, I want to make a regular speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u103	Look, the debate is a single one. Holding two days doesn't say anything. The decision of the Conference of Presidents shall be uniform to the principle and to the articles. This debate we are now having is also seen by the President. We will reach agreement and perhaps you will be informed from now on what the procedure will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u104	You'll pass it on to the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u105	I'll take them to the president. If you have a proposal, you can tell her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u106	Yes, I have a proposal now and I give it to you, Mr President. I, at least, may not want other colleagues - even today to be given a year to do my dentistry, because I have only really spoken to you at the outset, and I have a lot to say about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u107	Now, I can't tell you. However, there was a decision to be uniform on the principle and on the articles. I do not know, but I did not follow the suggestions made by the rapporteurs of all the parties and the special speakers. Your proposal has been heard, it will be transferred to the President of Parliament, so that it can be shaped from today, even today, as you say, if possible, that the rapporteurs and specialist speakers should be placed in the articles or supplements that they have to do on the draft law. Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the discussions prior to the committee the rapporteur of the New Democracy was placed and claimed that the government's decision to extend to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea marks the conversion of our country's foreign policy from inertia to energy. With this indirect, however, it is clear, on the New Democracy side, that at least the recent governments of the New Democracy, before SYRIZA, followed and demonstrated passivity and inertia in national matters. However, this conversion of the New Democracy is quite late enough, I would say. A short time trip, one year ago to two, confirms that today it suggests things that New Democracy was largely opposite only a few months ago. I do not intend to repeat everything that has been said and explained by several speakers. Just to note my disagreement with the position of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, that it was just some reservations as he said today in his report. When you say that SYRIZA divides the country in the middle with incredible preoccupation or when you say that SYRIZA causes damage by dividing the Ionian from the Aegean, they are not simple reservations. They were positions that had nothing to do with the conditions that are being exaggerated today and were clear and upright against the SYRIZA government at the time. What I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, is that this revolt is not just about this fact. It is not the exception, it is the rule with which, in my opinion, the New Democracy is conducting its foreign policy. I shall mention one or two examples. I will not dwell on the toxic opposition of the New Democracy during the time the Ambassadors' Agreement was discussed. I ask today, what is the official position of the New Democracy? The position expressed a moment ago by the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Manolakos, that we surrendered ethnicity and language? The position followed by the New Democracy within the country, where the majority of its Members dare not even whip the name Northern Macedonia? Or is the position followed by the New Democracy and the language it uses for abroad? I copy from the official website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Greece is conducting air police missions in the North Macedonian airspace." And I kept this fact about the importance of peace in the region, the cooperation of neighbours in the region, the stability in the region and the limitation of Turkey's role in the region of the Western Balkans. Let's go down. Greece, in the time it passed, arrived with the escalation of Turkish aggression, in my opinion, in our recent history closer to the war event. And the spearhead of Turkish aggression was the attempt of "ORUC REIS" to break down areas of our national sovereignty. What is the position of the New Democracy? "ORUC REIS" got it? The second position, this irresponsible - and, Mr President, allow me, the expression - of the bourgeoisie of various competent and irresponsible government officials who were trying, in the form of political wishes, political positions and technical issues, to convince us by the media that the associated vessels with the noise they generated or because some parts did not actually touch the bottom did not do any research? Or was it New Democracy's position that the former country's national security consultant, Mr Mitsotakis' personal choice, "not to be fooled, were investigated?" What is the position of these three, especially, different approaches? Mrs Bakoyannis has tried to advise us who have recently dealt with the political groups now dealing with foreign policy and referred to the experience of those who have handled national issues, etc. Very good. Beyond the fact that I disagree with important experience, first of all it is what political positions I express, what political positions you support, what political positions you support. So, Mrs Bakoyannis, who handled national issues, what influence did she have on them? With the position of 100% or with the position of the New Republic of 2020 that does not recognise full influence not even for Crete? Not even for Crete, one of the five largest islands in the Mediterranean! I take this opportunity to ask, Mr Minister, what is the correct rate of influence on the islands for you? Will you respond beyond the influence of the islands, and to Mr Manolakos that he does not express the official position of the New Democracy in our relations with northern Macedonia? Or is Mr Manolakos expressing them and should you answer them differently? See examples of this, not in the number. The substance is one. You can't start foreign policy speaking many languages. You can't pursue a foreign policy by stepping on two boats. You cannot exercise foreign policy by seeing and doing, according to the narrow party-communication benefit. You can't exercise foreign policy with your attention and your gaze aimed at maintaining your inner-party balances. Foreign policy wants a plan, a strategy, a responsibility and with it you must stand. With this responsibility, we are dealing with the draft law that comes today for the extension of twelve miles. Let me turn to Crete for a moment. It has been said enough and I have no intention of repeating any of what has been said. I have attended the debate in the committee and in the debate today all the Members from all the wings that have been placed on the subject. I hope that Mr Mitsotakis will confirm the extension and south and east of Crete, and I hope that Mr Mitsotakis will clarify the bilinguality of the New Democracy and respond to the officials who have described the position of President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras nationalism. At the same time, I believe it is a question of credibility that we should not delay any longer. I hope that the Ministry, as we have moved on, will continue to carry on technically and will not wait. I hope that the position to extend to twelve miles will be taken soon. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that the extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles in the area we are discussing today falls within the axis of a lasting, multidimensional, active foreign policy of the country. It is within the framework of a policy that safeguards and introduces our country in the international sphere as a force for peace and stability in the region, as a force for defending international law and the Law of the Sea, and a force for continuous defence of our sovereignty and sovereign rights. In this sense, we are voting in favour of the agreement that the government is bringing to this House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the President on the procedural proposal made by Mr Lovers, but also by other fellow Members, rapporteurs or special speakers, the rapporteurs and special speakers will be given the floor at any time. In other words, they will determine the time they want, whether right now or then tomorrow. The time given - I say it now to be prepared - will be with some tolerance, but not superiority, in ten minutes. I think that in this way we will ensure the good course of the continuation of the debate, so that the time has to be predicted, but also the rapporteurs and special speakers who are also able to put themselves in this very serious draft law on national issues, because it is necessary to speak. I think ten minutes, however, are enough. This has also been resolved, and we thank Mr Loverdos for putting the matter on the table, and we have solved it from now on, so that there are no misunderstandings. To give the floor to Mr Constantine Bouba, MP of the Greek Solution. As far as I'm concerned, then he wants the special speaker of the Change Movement to take the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u110	Good evening across Parliament on a very important subject that we are discussing and will mark the future for future generations as well. First of all, we must say that we are the only country that has not extended our sovereign rights to twelve nautical miles. Because if anyone says about Finnishisation, Finland has solved the issue with Karelia since the beginning of 1920 if we see it historically. The only state that has a narrow strip of sea is Jordan, which is limited under six nautical miles. So we had left the only country in the world that we had not made progress in this unilateral right we have under the 1982 Sea Law, which thanks to Ecuador, because this small state started what is called the Exclusive Economic Zone. We are, of course, talking about continental and sovereign rights. Listen to me. As a Greek Solution, we have told you at the very first moment, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that everything that strengthens our national sovereignty is in agreement. But there must be no mistakes. If AOZ's father is considered the Theodoros Kariotis, once counselor to Andreas Papandreou, a university professor, we must admit that the child of AOZ and MP who brought the Exclusive Economic Zones to Parliament, even though you considered him graphic, was Kyriakos Velopoulos. The Law of the Sea lays down many points on which we must be careful. First of all, the last maps of the dives in Greece are 2011 on Manatis. We have not published any more maps after the maps of the then Minister Maniotis. On the contrary, Turkey, by reading many economic military analysts and the foreign press, if you like, has issued a series of illegal maps. That should worry us. You say that the extension of the nautical miles of territorial waters will go to the southern part of the Balkan peninsula and, above all, to the lands of Europe, Tainaro. But why don't we put the Cythera in or the Antikythera? They don't have these continental influences? Why don't we talk about Gadus, Gadus, Gadus, or Olephonissos or what we are shouting about, that the islands should have human activity based on international law? The island - key to the whole case at the other end that we should declare Exclusive Economic Zone - or better to say, it is another declaration and another demarcation, there is a big difference - is Strongyli, not so Large or Kastelorizo or the island of Ros, because there has to be human activity. We have unfortunately made mistakes by 1995, and if we do not take care of them, they will be repeated. Because then the Turks were calling for sovereignty in the eastern Aegean and today they are talking about the whole Aegean. I have said it in other speeches and the President of the Greek Solution has stressed it. The "main dish" is the place "Baburas" in the east of Thassos. That's where the biggest look is. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Constantine Karamanlis, to remind the Neo-Democrats in 1976, had been very smart to these deposits in his hands for this point. However, there were later, unfortunately, the mistakes in Davos and the mea culpa of Andreas Papandreou with Ozal, what had been made with Constantine Mitsotakis and Demirel, where they banned us and they want to ban us and now that they are throwing us in the dialogue with the exploratory to make any mining of deposits mainly in the "Baburas" site, over and over. The “ENERGIAKI AEGEAN”, which urges you to see the conclusion, despite the contrast between the Greek State and the “ELLENIC AEGEAN”, in 2013, gave a conclusion and talks about three hundred thousand barrels a day. Why am I saying all this? To see that the Turks don't move at random. Because there was talk of Ellinus and Dardanelli, in July 1936, they are indeed governed by the Montreal Treaty what the Turks have military power in Ellinspo and are banned from crossing warships of over twenty-three thousand pounds. It's just that they can't pass airships, or military ships should be alerted a week earlier. So, then, the Turks have military power in Dardanelli and Elles, they want to control all six nautical miles, because it suits them, so they can have a full power in the Aegean Sea in general. We have made mistakes and I am afraid, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not repeat them in a dialogue that the Turks want to take us down. I shall also refer to reports by the Turkish press, but also to statements by Turkish MPs. The Permanent Representative to the United Nations Organisation Ferinto Senirlioglu, with his article at "Kathimerini" at the end of August 2020, said that, with the recognition of EOZ of Greece - Italy and Greece - Egypt, Greece recognises that the islands have reduced influence. There's the mistake. Here is the great mistake we are making, the 'a little pregnant' that the Turks will take advantage of to say that for the Dodecanese, for the islands of the northern Aegean and everything that it entails. So look at these statements by the Turks, apart from the continental shelf, to lead us to other issues, and there they will bring, as an example, what Mr. Dendias is now signing with Egypt and Italy to say: Reduced influence on the Strods, Diapontia, Gaydos or elsewhere. Why? So the impact on Kastelorizo, Strongyli, Ros and the other islands is also reduced. Now, based on this harmonisation we have made FIR Athens with European FIR, the Turks cannot tell whether they will reach the 20th parallel. I read articles on economics and strategic analysts talking about this famous 'Joint space control'. So, is Turk coming to Skyros, which is the twenty-fifth parallel, and then will he warn that he's entering Greek territorial waters? That's what the Turks want to do with this aggressive, general policy they have. We, on the contrary, give them after the eighth parallel, that is, after Kastelorizo, since we don't recognize...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President, since we do not have time, with this, which we as Greek Solution put in the patronage as a great argument for an endless debate that Kyriakos Velopoulos says not in The Hague, to plead. Mr Hetas and Mr Villardos and Mr Mylonakis were also mentioned on the Akuyu nuclear reactor. The Turks violate the Espo Treaty. Let's see what it is. Look to the European Parliament on the 2485 that we can table in the Minutes. The Turks do not comply with this treaty and we will have a serological bomb in the area from the nuclear reactor of Akuy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I shall conclude. There are statements by the opposition MP, Basasir, who says that the Akuy's nuclear reactor is being held in an earthquake area and we must ban it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u116	This is an argument for turning Turkey, Mr President. That's a big argument. I want the government to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u119	Mrs Constantina Adamou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. By the way, I would like to wish everyone and everyone a good year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to approve the extension of the territorial waters of the western part of our country to twelve nautical miles from the northern part of the Ionian Pelagos to Cape Tinaro. This is an extension of our land territory to the sea, the so-called gyalitis zone, and of course, it is a historic moment for Greece. The extension of our zone of national sovereignty and jurisdiction to twelve nautical miles is a unilateral and inalienable right of our country, resulting from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which reflects international customary law. The Convention on the Law of the Sea was signed in 1982 and was ratified by our country in 1995 and then, in April 1998, by the European Union as a single entity, fully incorporated it into Union law. Its scope extends to existing Member States and also to candidate countries, including Turkey. The exercise of the right to extend our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles is therefore an absolutely legitimate and self-evident unilateral act, as it is supported by International Law and adopted by a hundred and fifty-two countries, in accordance with the recent United Nations General Assembly resolution on the oceans and the Law of the Sea. We are therefore in agreement. However, the extension of our territorial waters to a particular part of the country marks the most official signal of the change in our national strategy, which, until recently, has had the potential for simultaneous expansion of our territorial waters throughout the country, whenever it is considered appropriate. Clearly, our constant turbulence in our relations with Turkey did not make it easier to make decisions on such a simultaneous extension of our territorial waters. Therefore, the change in the direction of our national strategy can be generally accepted if we take into account the current circumstances. However, it should be understood internationally that the expansion of our territorial waters only in the western part of the country, which we are now called upon to vote on, should not be understood by anyone as accepting the existence of special conditions in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. In any case, we should not suffice to repeat the self-evident ones, namely that our country retains the legal right to extend its territorial waters to other areas of its territory. The non-expansion of our territorial waters up to the Cape Malea in the Peloponnese, including Kythera and Antikythera, clearly demonstrate the reluctance of the Greek Government to immediately bring the international rules of harmless transit into force in this critical region for international navigation. Furthermore, the non-expansion of our territorial waters south, and why not south-east of Crete, is giving us particular consideration, particularly in view of the start of exploratory contacts with the neighbour on 25 January. I should point out at this point that it is absolutely essential to inform all political parties about the overall development of discussions with Turkey in the framework of informal exploratory contacts. The Greek delegation must come into exploratory contacts with Turkey with the confidence provided by International Law and with the exclusive and specific subject matter of discussions the demarcation of the AEZ and the continent. It should be understood to the Turkish delegation that the recent NAVTEX in conjunction with the general grid of challenges, threats and projections of power in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean do not hurt Greece and in any case prevent it from exercising its legitimate right to overall expansion of territorial waters in the twelve nautical miles. At the same time, Greece should in no way lift its support for the UN proposal on the state structure of the Single Republic of Cyprus as a bizonal, bicommunal federation and at the same time highlight the issues of illegal occupation, provocative actions in the Varhosia and in the maritime region of Cyprus, as well as the unacceptable rhetoric of the Turkish side. It should be understood internationally that, unlike our troubled neighbour, who sees himself as having invaded three neighbouring countries - Iraq, Syria, Cyprus - and who are involved both in the conflict between Nagorno Karabakh and in the Libyan civilisation, Greece at the basis of International Law and under the rules of good neighbourliness closes its open ends peacefully. However, this does not mean, under any circumstances, that our country must always retreat and make concessions to our neighbours. There have already been unilateral retreats to the recent Greek-Italian agreement to delimit the EEZ by accepting a reduced influence of the Diaponn Islands and the Strofades, while the corresponding retreat was also made in the Greek-Egypt partial agreement with a reduced influence on Crete and Rhodes. However, the most critical concession we have to accept today with great reluctance is the granting of the right to fish, practically to Italian fishermen within our zone of sovereignty, namely between six and twelve nautical miles, without any provision for the maximum allowable number of fishing, their size or the type of catch. This concession, as it is not mutually provocative and non-viable in the long term for Greek fishermen who will not enjoy rights in the territorial waters of Italy. Retreats from our sovereign rights with the aim of demarcation of maritime zones are a dangerous practice that produces previous ones, sends the wrong messages internationally. In view of the conclusion of a pledge with Albania on an appeal to The Hague on the delimitation of the EEZ, it is crucial to claim the implementation of the 2009 Greek Albanian Agreement, which was created under a government of Constantine Karamanlis and which, among other things, provided for full influence on the islands and was signed by competent ministers, thus gaining legal power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. The contents of the promise should be announced to the political parties and examined in detail, given Turkey's well-known involvement in Greek-Albanian relations in recent years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dilemma about the vote or not of this bill is paradoxical. We will be voting in favour of this draft law at first instance, but we are critical of Article 4 on fisheries. As representatives of the Greek people, we have an obligation to follow the geopolitical developments in our region with particular attention, to participate actively in the political dialogue and to associate ourselves with our permanent national strategy. However, we are also obliged to highlight the mistakes, failures and omissions of those leading our national diplomacy and to keep the interests of our society vigilant and patriotised. It is clear that these interests do not match the respective interests of the large energy groups that are going to be active in the Greek seas and it is certain that the seas of our country are going to be the fields of mining, which will increase the profitability of the local and international oligopoly energy colostrums, without rewarding results for society. By extending our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles to the west, we do not legalise our country's involvement in international energy competition,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u123	Please finish, my colleague, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u124	...but we claim as a society and as citizens the benefits of increasing our territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u125	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for his denology for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the Bureau of Parliament for this arrangement, because we are not at the National Representation today and tomorrow on any matter, but we are on a very, very important subject related to the increase in our territorial sovereignty, the increase in the land of the country, the expansion of its territorial waters from six to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea. I said, during my prototype, that I would speak in the first place this morning - and that is what I did - and I had reservations about the articles of the draft law in my dentistry, that is now, where I am dealing with the four of the five articles of the draft law, because the fifth relates only to the entry into force of it. Article 1, ladies and gentlemen - I do not see the Chamber - stipulates that this law applies throughout the whole marine region from the northern part of the Ionian Islands to the Tainaro of the Peloponnese, in other words, firstly, we have a partial extension of the maritime miles of the country from six to twelve and, secondly, a section of the section of the west side of the country. We have part of the department, as I told you in the morning, and then I will analyse further. What are we doing? Our dominance. Do we agree with anyone? Oh, no. For the proclamation of the gynaecitis zone at 12 miles, it is sufficient that the country chooses to do so. In this part of the section, by the section of the west, what are we in line with? With the vast majority of the United Nations' coastal states. What are we leaving to the Ionian part of the west side of the country? Our accession to the vast minority of the coastal states that maintain their territorial waters in less than 12 miles. The number of these states, almost, does not exceed ten to eleven of the United Nations. We are making a very serious move as a country and it is very serious and good and hopeful and hopeful - I want to believe - that most of the political forces are unanimous in this matter. I have already commented on Article 1(1). However, there is also paragraph 2 in Article 1, which proclaims our commitment to exercise our sovereignty in the rest of our country, namely the south and the east. Do we have a legal basis for this custody? Sure. We have the Law of the Sea, the provisions of the Law of the Sea concerning Greece, the island side, and according to the provisions of international law, namely the Law of the Sea, in this case of the Montego Bay Convention of 1982, we have the opportunity to declare 12 miles there. Does Article 1(2) offer anything? Is he offering anything to the whole conversation? Oh, no. Just a symbolism, just a reminder, just a mention that according to International Law we can make this declaration of extending our sovereignty to twelve miles in the south and east of the country. If paragraph 2 did not exist, would our rights be reduced? Not at all. Therefore, Article 1(2), Madam President, and honourable Members, creates an alibi for an action which we still have not understood in the national Parliament, because the entire west section of the country has not been regulated as part of which we extend our sovereignty from six to twelve nautical miles. An excuse is the Article 1(2) paragraph and not more. In Article 2, how do we calculate the range of the gynaecitis zone? Closening bays and bays and drawing base lines. When is this going to happen? It was this 2020, the year before, in January, Presidential Decree 107. I also told the Standing Commission that I, with my colleagues, have this year a micro-specificity in the ability to understand the coordinates, because we have been following the ORUC REIS all summer, which is exactly where it is and which we have had to understand. Also, because the parliament has ratified and the state has ratified by the President of the Republic the laws on the agreement with Italy and the divisional agreement with Egypt, quite much the National Representation understands, understands, knows. So on the basis of this experience we have gained - and I told the Standing Committee - it seems that the base lines too, but above all the bays and bays have been closed in the best possible way. In other words, Article 2 is an essential provision, which determines where we start to measure, and this definition has been done in an excellent way, in so far as my own possibilities and capabilities of my partners allow us to understand. Article 3, which deals with internal legislation, does not seem to me to need any further comment. We agree. I now come to Article 4 to close my position on the articles. There has been a very great debate on this article in the Standing Committee, and today I see that this debate is repeated in plenary. I did not have a hand in my mind when I was reading, in view of my speech in the Standing Commission, what we had discussed bilaterally with the Minister, but above all in the House, about the granting of the Hellenic Republic to Italy, the Italian fishermen to fish in the area that was to take place - and now it is a field of sovereignty. I then said that to the extent that Greece decides so, our sovereignty is in no way affected. It is possible, under our law here today, for fishermen, as Article 4 rightly says, not from Italy, but from the European Union, because this is what we have to say - be careful! - Because that's how we decide. If we had decided otherwise, they would not have this economic potential, the possibility of economic activity. To what extent is this possibility extended? We need to read and stop the chatter - that is not my hand, we discussed it yesterday with Mr Teddy - until the relevant regulation is adopted on the part of the European Union, that is to say, the timely one set out in Article 4 is not only consistent with the will of the relevant Minister for Agriculture, but is mainly linked to the regulation, that is, direct law, the law of direct application which the European Union will adopt in this regard. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me one, two more minutes, because I had been informed that it would be ten minutes of our position and not nine...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Loverdo, I'm just late for putting time, so it's nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u128	All right, give me two more minutes, please, let me close. We are therefore talking about the West that we should be voting in the south-west today. What about the east and south? For the south, in Crete, that is, until the end of our agreement with Egypt, there is no problem. I imagine that the next legislative initiative of the government will also include this. We now go to the east of Kythera and east and north of Crete and generally to the Aegean. Do we avoid our dominance there? No, not at all, not at all, but at all! So I understood your answer to Mr. Katrugalo this morning. That's how I figured it out, because I'm asking you what you said, and I'm saying that I understood you that way. You may need to give a clarification. As you have answered my colleague, you have raised questions. I would also ask, I was here listening to you and said, Minister, that this is what you meant, that the country has the opportunity at all times to do what is relevant to Crete. That's how I understood you. We now go to see how we monitor dialogue with Turkey on the basis of the illegal casus belli 1995. I said this morning that it is illegal, because the threat against a country is an international criminal offence. It is illegal, however, or not illegal - it is illegal - it has created a situation, a debate, let's say so. Are we taking her into consideration? We are saying 'no', and we are basically saying 'no'. We do not take it into account. We will exercise our sovereignty and there, whenever we decide. They oppose the argument of transforming the Aegean into a lake, and this argument is heard, Madam and honourable Members. Sounds like it. Is that true? It's not true. Why isn't it true? Because even if we extend our sovereignty to twelve nautical miles - I told the committee twice - a marine space in the Aegean that comes to our dominance does not exceed 71%. Is that our only argument? Clearly not, because there is the right, a right reserved in all the countries of the United Nations, free shipping, which means that where there are twelve miles and there must be free shipping, there is the right of harmless passage. And it is harmless to pass, firstly, when it does not disturb security, secondly, peace and thirdly, the public order of the coastal state. Against what functions of the coastal state? All and its executive and its legislative function and judicial function. It is the right of the State - any state - whose ship passes - a military ship, a warship, a recreational ship - to actually pass through without any obstacles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u130	I conclude, Mr President, with this: these conditions have been left to the interpretation of any, 'harmful passage', that is, not to insult security, peace and public order. No, the Law of the Sea itself expressly defines - I have no more time - those cases where transit is not peaceful, affects public order and creates problems in the security of the coastal state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u132	Mr Constantinople, I am not talking about any matter and, indeed, dentistry has been given us because of the nature of the particular nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u133	Yes, but, Mr. Loverdo, you speak thirteen minutes and they'll say I'm doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u134	But that is why I have to watch you and do well to remind me. Let me say my last sentence. The list has been judged following painful procedures, objections and reactions as a list which includes exhaustively those cases where transit is neither harmless nor peaceful and does not affect public order. On the basis of all this reasoning, my last sentence, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have an inalienable, integrable and inalienable right to preach our territorial waters in twelve miles and in the south of the country and in the Aegean. Greece will do this whenever it considers it necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Unfortunately, I have to keep the same attitude...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u136	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u137	Mr Dionysoupis of the New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr President, you have the floor and I ask you to stay within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u138	Yes, thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin by saying that today is an excellent day for the Greek Parliament. This is the day that the Greek Parliament has been asked to vote for the increase in the area of national sovereignty since 1947. Today, then, we are called upon to vote on a draft law with which Greece, for the first time, extends hayalitis zone to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese, which, of course, also involves the simultaneous expansion of the overriding national airspace to twelve nautical miles. This is a historic legislative initiative by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, a draft law extending our national sovereignty, always in accordance with the principles of international law and good neighbourliness, and will increase the space of national sovereignty by ten thousand seventy-square kilometres. In fact, if we take account of the area created by the law - according to International Law - the closure of the tricks, this area is more than thirteen thousand square kilometres. So, basically, our country is growing. Ladies and gentlemen, with the expansion of territorial waters on the western sea front Greece exercises the right of sovereignty. The vote on this historic draft shows the determination of the current government to apply international law and the law of the sea without delay. At the same time, the country sends us a clear message, in particular, to those who are taking all unfair and illegal means to terrorise it and disorientate it from defending its interests. The Greek Government makes it clear that it reserves the right to extend the yacht to other regions, when it will be considered beneficial to our national interests. After all, this is mentioned in the clearest way in Article 1 of today's bill. Furthermore, according to a statement by our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the next phase will be in the area south of Crete. However, today's initiative must not be seen individually, but as an important part and a decisive result of a comprehensive and coherent foreign policy strategy that this government has been implementing since the first days of the wheel of our country. So, as the government is well known, at a critical, challenging period, it has signed major agreements, such as those with Italy and Egypt, for the purpose of defining exclusive economic zone and maritime zones. We have also achieved the tightening of our friendly relations with France, concluding the historic agreement on rafele. In addition, with the United States of America we signed the agreement to upgrade the eighty-four F-16. At the same time, we signed the 20-year defence agreement with Israel. We had contacts with all the allies and friends, with all the strategic players, from Russia and Germany to the United Arab Emirates. Through all the above we have managed to form strong alliances, as well as to gain the clear support of the international community. Thus, it became clear which country intends to apply international law to the letter and who insists on illegal acts and provocative and unfounded claims. In addition, it should be stressed that the current government has taken important and decisive steps to strengthen our deterrent power. It is no coincidence that the most ambitious armament programme of the last few decades is now being implemented, and we have been making considerable efforts to strengthen the personnel of the Armed Forces and to increase the number of people admitted to military schools and also through the recruitment of professional soldiers already announced. This draft law therefore becomes even greater substance, as it is part of a broader diplomatic strategy of the Government which has begun to bear fruit in the last eighteen months. With regard to the posture of Officer Response, SYRIZA had said several times that as a government they were ready to extend to twelve nautical miles, but eventually they did not have time to do so, like many others. The fact is that nothing has been done at the end of the day, neither by a Presidential Decree nor by any legislative initiative. They want to tell us that they didn't do it because the New Democracy reacted and had a negative position. But who would believe them? They did not go ahead because they then heard Turkey's threats, because they had left the country alone, without allies, without a plan. You were, like today, whatever. Today we are moving forward because there is strategy, there is a plan. So don't be exposed, and for micro-political purposes don't reduce Greece's power, saying we're going weakened in exploratory contacts. You're not offering anything as an Opposition. But stop harming the country with your attitude. In closing, they deserve warm congratulations to the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as to the Minister of Foreign Nikos Dendias, who have succeeded methodically in this last year to close too many issues that were open in the previous thirty to forty years. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a symbolic bill, but at the same time also essential, because Greece, after its establishment, has increased its sovereignty and strengthens its position in the region, while at the same time it is also a historic and essential bill that comes at an extremely critical time for our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Apepi. Mr Zurari and Mr Spiritual, there is one issue and Mr Francis asked us to take the lead. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the determination of the breadth of the sea zone in the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. This bill follows on from the demarcation of maritime zones in which our country and Italy took place, in accordance with the rules of the International Maritime Law. It is a very important bill, because this actually extends the national sovereignty of Greece to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian region to Cape Tinaro of the Peloponnese, without prejudice, of course, to the Greek Republic for the exercise of its respective rights in the other parts of its territory, as reflected by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which reflects international customary law. This bill comes at a difficult time, with our country facing the consequences of an unprecedented pandemic on the one hand and, on the other, the protracted and ever-increasing Turkish provocation, which manifests itself both against Greece and against Cyprus. In fact, Cyprus also has to deal with Turkey's new political position on the part of the Republic of Cyprus. This growing challenge is also maintained by the unwillingness of the European Union to respond vigorously to Turkey's invasion behaviour, adopting sanctions and demonstrating substantial solidarity in Greece and Cyprus. Of course, this is not the first time that it has overcome the Union's structure for interests. Even in the face of pandemic, behaviours have been observed in the European Union away from the spirit of European solidarity. Turkey declares on the one hand its intention to start exploratory, bearing in mind its multitude agenda, which includes a number of issues beyond the EEZ and the continent, and on the other it intensifys its challenges by issuing illegal NAVTEX. Turkey's uncompromising attitude, even shortly before the resumption of exploratory investigations, leaves little room for optimism for their outcome, even if the neighbouring country does not change the route. It is also worth noting that this draft law marks a change in the policy followed by our country for decades, regarding the right to extend its territorial waters to twelve nautical miles, which is summarised in the doctrine 'or anywhere'. "Everywhere" means that it will either be in the Ionian south of Crete and the Aegean or not. Now our policy is differentiated, which is right after the signing of the illegal Turkish pact. We have made partial progress in agreements with Italy and Egypt, which we voted on. For the Ionian Sea, from the northern border of the country to Cape Tainaro, we are today proclaiming our sovereignty at twelve nautical miles. However, the area under Tinaro is omitted to the west and south of Crete, until our agreement on Egypt begins. Would it not be preferable, Minister, to include this section now and before the start of the exploratory contacts with Turkey? Of course, it is our right to extend to twelve nautical miles and to this part whenever we want to. However, if we do so after the start of the investigative contacts, we risk being accused of undermining the investigative process, for lack of goodwill. The attitude of Greece, unlike that of Turkey characterised by provoking, violating and illegal actions such as the signing of the Turkish pact, is an attitude of respect for international legality. This states that the way and substance of the agreement with Egypt and Italy, as well as the promise that it is being formed to go to The Hague with Albania. They're written samples. We voted on the Montego Bay Convention in 1982, which entered into force in 1994, on the Law of the Sea and we respect it in practice. We exercise our rights, make a declaration where we have this right. We are concluding agreements with other countries, respecting what is defined by international conventions. For cases where there is disagreement, we are addressing the International Court of The Hague. As far as this bill is concerned, the attitude of the Change Movement is positive. We are voting for the extension of the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea to twelve nautical miles, but we believe that you should have moved even up to the south-western part of Crete. And I would like, Minister, once again to point out that the country's foreign policy must be the result of a long-term national strategy, based on the broad consensus of the political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. I should like to thank Mr Zurari and Mr Spiritual for giving Mr Frangidis their position and for continuing now with Mr Zurari. Can you hear me, Mr. Zurari? Mr. Zuraris can't hear us. Mr. Spiritual has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today an excellent bill with which Greece extends its seaside zone to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea region and the Ionian Islands as Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. Historical event, because for the first time since 1947, our country has been growing by extending its borders and maritime sovereignty to a large part of the marine space and by extension of the airspace. I am particularly pleased that this bill comes to be ratified by Parliament in a climate of national unity, almost all of the parties to anti-population. In this way the Greek Parliament sends a strong message in all directions, that on national issues Greeks are united by overcoming political controversies and dividing lines. The second important message is that effective and successful foreign policy is currently being exercised in line with legality, through transnational agreements and discussions and with the application of the principles of international law, not with threats and challenges. Our country in a difficult year has demonstrated its commitment to International Law through the two agreements with Italy and Egypt on demarcation of maritime zones, and has also agreed to start consultations with Albania on the joint referral of the demarcation of maritime zones to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. At the same time, the Government has developed actions to strengthen immediately the deterrent capacity of our country's Armed Forces, including the recent agreement on the purchase of French rafale fighter aircraft, which we voted on last week, but also to strengthen the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Inside, therefore, these targeted diplomatic movements Greece strengthens its regional presence and proves to be a factor of stability and legality in the region. With bold and determined determination, the government gradually settles outstandings with its neighbours, builds relationships of confidence with the international community and gradually moves towards the implementation of an integrated national strategy. Our country reserves its sovereign right to extend its maritime boundaries where it wishes to see the appropriate diplomatic and political time. This is explicitly laid down in Article 1 of the draft law. In a few days' time, exploratory contacts with neighbouring Turkey are expected to begin and with the sole object of delimiting the EEZ and the continental shelf. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, challenges stop and discussions begin. The Greek Government has come to this process sincerely and constructively. We expect Turkey to move in the same way, away from the challenges and threats and in good faith. So, as I have said, the investigative contacts will proceed in a specific context and under the conditions laid down by our country: firstly, that there will be no research activity such as the past and, secondly, that the only issue to be discussed is the demarcation of the maritime terrestrial and EEZ zones. Well, clear things. Greece does not retreat, intimidate and blackmail. Greece will continue to defend and claim its rights on convincing arguments, exploiting for the benefit of our country any opportunity under international law. The national consensus we are seeing today in the vote on this bill is a guarantee of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. We'll continue with Mr. Zurari. Mr. Comrade, can you hear us? Mr. Zuraris can't hear us. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish many years, good strength to everyone and health, that this pandemic passes. It is an excellent opportunity today to discuss a very important bill. It is for all of Greece and all of the Greeks a unique opportunity to make our own self-criticism with regard to issues related to our national conscience. The discussion of a draft law with a strong geopolitical footprint for the country cannot be adapted to or part of party purposes. We must approach the question of extending our territorial waters to twelve maritime miles in the Ionian Sea through an integrated defence strategy, but also the exercise of our sovereign rights. I am not going to get into the process, but also to comment on the position of colleagues from various parties from the National Representation or the Officerial Representation, who say that their own government or their own position as a party was specific in the previous period and especially from the Skillful Opposition that it was prepared to extend the territorial water to the twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, but did not have time to do so. I will also go beyond the peaks and suggestions that this move in the Ionian Sea works as a contrast with the Aegean. I am not going to stay on these two issues, mainly for two reasons. First of all, because it doesn't apply. Paragraph 2 of the first article of the draft law we are debating today expressly states that Greece reserves the right to extend territorial waters and other areas of the territory and its respective rights, arising from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Foreign Minister, Mr Denkias, has made this point very clear in both paragraph 2 and in Europe, but also throughout the whole territory, and I therefore think that we do not need to comment on the position of many of the Members who have spoken before. Secondly, we will not stay in this report because the creation of a conflict climate and confrontation over the allegations that Ankara is adopting is not just below the circumstances, but also operating underminingly. The Greek Government has given sufficient written examples of how it perceives the exercise of an active foreign policy. Greece has entered into agreements on the demarcation of the EEZ with Italy and Egypt, and I would point out that the agreement with Italy on the EEZ was the necessary condition to proceed with the extension of the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea. As we all understand and understand, the agreement with Egypt on the EEZ is also a necessary condition for a similar development at another geographical level. Most important, of course, is that Greece sends a clear and clear message to the international community that it is a country that seeks peaceful settlement on all outstanding issues, concludes agreements based on International Law and as they all know, Turkey has declared that it is a cause of war to extend our territorial waters to twelve maritime miles in the Aegean Sea. Today, however, as ever, it is necessary to develop a national strategy and adopt an active diplomacy that will strengthen our positions at international level. There are no horrific contributions to the defence of our sovereign rights, and there is not much more here, in the last of the Aegean, in the Dodecanese and by any Greek in any sea surrounding the country. And no Greek and Greek have a fear of defending our sovereign rights, let alone our Government. I am not going to talk about these, because everyone is obviously placed as he thinks, but let me just speak about our national and sovereign rights. These rights are based on international law, on international treaties, recognised by all states and defenders such as the United Nations, but also by the European Union. The 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea has been signed by the European Union as a supranational entity and is part of the European acquis. This agreement has not been accepted by Turkey. It does not recognise this fundamental framework of international law. This Convention in Article 121 clearly provides that the islands have a continental shelf and an EEZ, except for the fact that it provides for the extension of the territorial waters to twelve miles. We are talking about exercising a very clear sovereign right stemming from international law. Its exercise is not questionable, but it is linked to an integrated national strategy for the wider Mediterranean region. And I repeat that fearful incidents and discounts do not exist in this direction, as there is no possibility that the government will accept the practical recognition of Turkish requirements and expansional views. It has been made clear by the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister has said so many times. There are also objections, such as the extension of territorial waters to twelve miles, will cause problems in shipping and will not be able to pass harmlessly. There are no such arguments. There is always the harmless passage that allows free navigation. But there is also the example of the Cyclades region, which is a relatively closed sea, but we see that there is no obstacle to free shipping. Greece has the power to defend its sovereign rights. Its positions have legal effect. Greece's positions must be contacted throughout the international community and must exert diplomatic and political pressure. Mostly, however, they must be the fundamental ark of our national strategy. Structural elements of this national strategy are, firstly, active and extroverted foreign policy, secondly, strengthening the deterrent power of the Armed Forces and thirdly, close cooperation with the United States and those countries which defend the basic principles of the Western security system in the wider Mediterranean region. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by extending our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles the Greek territory is growing by thirteen thousand square metres. This is the first time that this has happened since 1947 and the incorporation of the Dodecanese into the national trunk. Like then, the increase in Greek territory is based on international conditions as well as international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u145	Thank you. Mr. Zuraris has the floor now. Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, my respects and apologies for my inadvertent error, as I do not yet manage to do so. Thank you again. Therefore, I will take again from the debate I have had and from my intervention in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs that the problem is not so much the extension of miles to the Ionian Sea at the moment, but it is essentially what everyone has pointed out, namely Casus belli, the cause of war. So within the debate on the extension of the Ionian Sea to twelve miles, we, as Greece, have essentially incorporated, have internalised our defeat from Turkey. This defeat, as I mentioned in the committee, has started since 1922 and recent defeats have been followed. It continued, of course, with our NATO membership and Turkey's accession to NATO after a few months, which destroyed us, because after a few months Turkey destroyed the Hellenism of Constantinople. It continued with the Cyprus issue and with the shameful agreements, which essentially put, as the great Seferis said, Turkey on the island and, of course, with the invasion of Cyprus, where the Greekism lost half Cyprus and of course now the casus belli. Therefore, “What am I stealing? The pretexts he had...", as the Democrat would say. And what are these pretexts? To accept that because we have had this conflict and because we have been defeated by Turkey, we have to decide how to deal with it on the basis of Thucydides and the guerrilla pre-business, which is ours and which is ours and which is ours. What does it mean to "advise"? It means that Mr Apostolidis should go there in a few days' time and the voice and living to tell them "I came here and the only suggestion in question, which is before any other debate, so that it is not according to Aristotle one in his image, but actually a proposal to speak with evidence and only a condition that is to withdraw immediately the 'cause of war'. If they do not withdraw it, it means that we have incorporated our defeat, we have accepted it, and therefore the extension to the territorial waters of the Ionian Islands - or I do not know, of the Earth of Fire, etc. - there's a black hole in the water. Therefore, it is not even the living water that goes on the springs of the water. It is essentially a hole in the water, because we dare not treat as another EAM or another ELAS or ELAN, the Greek People's Liberation Navy. We dare not accept, by accepting defeat, to begin the resistance. Resistance begins with our prerequisite to remove the "casus belli" and then to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we are today calling for an important debate and a decision on the extension of the kayalitis zone to the Ionian Sea region to the southern part of the Peloponnese. I would like to repeat from the outset that we are positive and will vote for the bill, but at the same time we will also table our opinion, that we consider it unimportant, while pointing out that the government is moving with a lack of strategic and draft law. I must say, however, that it can be detrimental to individual issues in the joint declaration of Italy - Greece, which I will highlight, by contributing to the debate. But why are we in this pleasant patriotic and parliamentary position of consensus? First of all, because there was preparation by the government of SYRIZA, Nikos Kotzias, George Katrugalos - something that the rapporteur and the Minister hid - on the basis of the trick lines, but also from the political option to extend the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian, which they had announced as a legislative initiative and Alexis Tsipras and George Katrugalos. Secondly, because SYRIZA is responsible for a patriotic party and does not make divisive and blind opposition. It recognises the major issue. We do not cover the strategy deficit, nor the issue of the non-expansion of territorial waters south and east of Crete. For we, Mr Dendia, cannot accept that expansion of territorial waters is nationalism, as your Minister in the House said, and I want you to take a stand on this. But how does SYRIZA's diversity look? What does it mean by responsible opposition? Or rather, what does it mean by irresponsible opposition? What's up today? The New Democracy comes to the national line that the SYRIZA government had promoted and was then swept away. And to answer a question of the days: What would happen today if SYRIZA were government? Mr. Georgiadis would say that this is a great damage, because he separates the Ionian from the Aegean, while Mr. Dendias admits that the country is growing. It would be New Democracy's head of department that the Syrians are separating the country in the middle. Why don't you dare talk about this? That's our difference. But we dare, because we want to strengthen Greece's geopolitical role and position. Because we have a unfortunately escalating Turkish provocative before us. What exactly did we have in your term of office and Mr. Mitsotakis' term of office? Increase overcrowding in the mainland, qualitative upgrading of Turkish provocativeness. We had ORUC REIS to surround once carried by the air and sometimes "within our faces" literally, by means of communications, to violate the summer sovereign rights of our country and while we have pointed out to you the serious problems of retreat from the Greek Government, as well as the serious problems posed by the statements made by Mr. Gerapitritos on the red line at six miles, or by Mr. Mitsotakis' statements on the non-determined and controversial rights, or by the incorrect inclusion of only half of Rhodes in the Agreement with Egypt. Such mistakes we do not want to repeat in the light of the start of exploratory contacts, because your triple failure in the European Union's sanctions summits is a negative precedent and I do not want to say anything more severe. Dialogue is certainly the only way to resolve the one and only difference we have with Turkey and we must not retreat to accept any attempts to extend the agenda. But, Minister, I must be clear. You may today give the image of mobility, but for a long time you were going with the autopilot, and you thought SYRIZA's policy would be enough. Because we really had opened up a lot of issues to strengthen our country: strengthening cooperation with China, 'one belt one road', the European countries of the south, the cooperation of the leaders of the Balkans, the Ambassadors' agreement, being Greece's energy hub and energy security, the Cairo Forum, EastMed, the IGB, the FSRU of Alexandroupolis, which is now being given to a private person, to note. On your part, we have a biscuit policy in terms of political deception. Today, the Prespecies Agreement is historic, then it was treacherous. In fact, it is disgraceful that a statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be deleted from the joint declaration with Mr Pompeos. It affects diplomacy. Now, Mr Mitsotakis asks for faithful respect and full implementation, Mrs Bakoyannis honors the agreement and you have made it clear that she is clear that she is addressing the issues of history. We took Macedonia's history back, sir, and then you hid it as a New Democracy, to make small-eyed, party and not patriotic policy. But it's not just that, that she's hysterical - if you want - your attitude. It's that you hide what Greece achieved then. It was also hidden by your rapporteur, because everything has been done in the last eighteen months. But that is not right, because you are losing foreign policy rights. And since we are talking about a national line, Mr Dendia, I should like to point out a problem that is currently evolving in Evros, the violation of a national line, when a call for proposals was announced for a new refugee structure that abolishes the national line, that is to say not to remain - if you want - refugees and immigrants in the region of Evros in general. However, I must also highlight a number of issues that arise and you have not identified them in the joint declaration of Greece and Italy and I am closing down with that. The joint declaration by Greece and Italy, Mr Tindemans, must be submitted. It has been six months and we have serious concerns, because with Article 4 there are many questions and concerns, and we do not know exactly what you have signed. I would say that our delegation must also see it confidentially, but you cannot hide it from the House and I am referring to all the parliamentary parties. There is a serious risk with Article 4 that all Member States should be given access to all catches, but also to indiscriminate areas of fishing rights, so that you can limit the national and economic interests of the country and of the citizens. And you know, Mr. Dendia, it is strange to say that you are opposed to these Italian proposals, that Mr. Voridis says that they will not be implemented and that you will do exactly the opposite, to give the rights. I would like to point out, Mr President, by closing two issues relating to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy which are absent from the debate on this very important agreement. First question, is there any consideration of the transition to enlargement of the NATURA regions of the country, in other words, absolute and delimited nature protection in Greece's natural capital, if national waters are extended? What exactly is it going to be? Secondly, what is going to happen with the fishing rights of third countries and of Greece, when the NATURA and the Greek right to demarcation and determination of uses has changed these rights? Have you thought about it in the Greek-Italy Joint Declaration? That's why we want to see her. I think we should also think of something else: How are environmental authorisations being modified or adapted, for example for hydrocarbon research sites, if more areas are now to enter national waters? Do you have a transitional arrangement on these matters? All of these are issues which, unfortunately, are missing, because the government is sceptically and fragmented and once again absent from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is managing something that is so important. But we, as SYRIZA, will also contribute to parliamentary control, but also to a consistent patriotic attitude. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Ljutas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow in two historic sessions, Parliament's plenary will discuss and vote in favour of this bill, the extension of the kayalitis zone to twelve nautical miles at sea in the region of the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands, until Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. The Government of New Democracy always respects International Law and the Law of the Sea acts, founds and exercises the inalienable right of our country to extend its territorial waters to the Ionian Sea at twelve nautical miles. Our homeland is growing today. Indeed, given the escalating turmoil that we experienced in the previous period, due to Turkey's challenges to Evros and the Eastern Mediterranean, this decision shows that we are responding to acts based on international law. We are shielding and extending our sovereignty in this way, and we are defeating, in a state, any sense of irrationality. There is no doubt that today's agreement proves that we are struggling with determination and that we are able to make Greece an important regional player for our geopolitical region. Ladies and gentlemen, this historic decision forms part of the overall national planning of our foreign policy, a plan aimed at strengthening and shielding our sovereign rights, the security of our country, development and prosperity. For a year now, our government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have only counted victories, decisive victories. The definition of our maritime zones with Italy and Egypt, the existing agreement and moving forward on the respective issue with the country of Albania, our geostrategic alliances with key players in our geopolitical region, but also the substantial and great deepening of our relations with our traditional allies in Europe and internationally, highlight the strategy that we are pursuing. Our national design is based on cooling, alertness and preparedness. This design is based on fairness and respect for the great history of our country. It protects the present and the future of Greece and the Greeks. We should all be proud in this Chamber of taking part in these historic meetings and voting in favour of this bill. This year, in 2021, a landmark year for our country, two hundred years after the beginning of the Greek Revolution, Greece gives the present dynamically with every challenge and challenge. Our country is dynamically present in geopolitical and strategic terms. The Government of New Democracy implements a large and important strategy, a strategy that highlights and highlights our potential within and internationally. Of course, at this point, we must stress that, in order to implement such a strategy in particular, it must be so central and fundamental that there must be a political leadership with vision, with responsibility and with perception. We proudly prove that the country today has such political leadership, a leadership that with vision and actions leads to Greece and the Greeks in the era of self-confidence, growth and prosperity. They deserve credit for the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister who have worked very hard to get to today's historic decision. It is the determination, ability, perseverance and targeting of our political leadership that the conditions that have contributed and contributed to such historic decisions have been made. Decisions that their print is strong for our present and future, which are directly fighting and defeating all absurd challenges and threats. What we have achieved is the credibility that Greece has recovered, credibility which is the result of our own policy, but also the condition behind every success we have achieved. Considering last year, we find that a country can often be called upon to face up to events that could threaten social peace and security. In the face of all such challenges, responsible political actions, which lead to unreserved impasse and that protect the country and society. It is contrary to international law that the documentation of the country's law should be documented. It is the pursuit of international and bilateral dialogue in terms of cooling, persistence and targeting. All of this was the basis behind every step we took and finally, the basis for every victory that we achieved. Last year Greece was called upon to face threats and to face them with great success. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very first moment the Government has shown us and demonstrated that it is moving into the sphere of acts and results. It has nothing to do with the age of inertia, oligoria and weakness in the face of finding a solution. We have acted at every level and in every policy area in favour of national interest, in favour of national goodness. This is our undeniable advantage, our undeniable conquest and our original goal of being elected to take the country forward. That's what we're doing, that's what we're going to do, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. We have two more speakers, Mr Athanasios and Mr Ceridis. Then we have the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece and the Minister. Then the process will be completed. Mr. Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. "We are talking today about a great damage to the place", Adonis Georgiadis. "A bill that is not a serious foreign policy," Vassilis Kikilis. "We are discussing an extremely prudence of the country's national interests", Dora Bakoyannis. "We are discussing a symptom of nationalism", Michael Chrysochoidis. "We are discussing today the expansion of our territorial waters on the west side of our country." Does he see us lack of seriousness, as Mr Kumucasos said? Are we feeling a sense of responsibility? That's exactly what he said when Nikos Kotzias announced the extension of the gyalitis zone in the way the bill is currently introduced. In my first minute of the speech made by the majority rapporteur, Mr Hadjivassiliou - he is a new politician and I prefer to refer to him - he says: 'Historical draft law'. Then, in the government of SYRIZA, was it useless as a lack of a historical basis? It states: 'The political forces of the country have been placed with great responsibility'. Then in the government of SYRIZA the New Democracy was irresponsible and grappled? It states: 'The New Democracy welcomes consensus'. Then he was walking on her? It states: "The bill acts as a basis for national consultation on major issues". Then, in the government of SYRIZA, who have put it into operation not in favour of national understanding, but in order to win the elections in favour of national dismantling? This is the bad side of the New Democracy. I will forget, ladies and gentlemen, that you are licking where you were spitting today. Let me have that expression. I am not used to strong expressions, but I feel that I need to say this popular expression. I will come to your good side, which I think Mr Dendias is best represented. It's brave to admit your mistakes and make a hundred and eighty-degree turn to fix them. I recognize that. Your generosity of course does not go as the expression of apologies, but I do not think that quality of morality could be found in the field of neoliberalism. It is something that, if you remember, Kostis Stefanopoulos had understood and introduced into our public life the concept and practices of social liberalism. The circumstances are changing, one of you said, in particular, Mr Kumoucasos. So our attitude must also be changed. Then, as I said, you must apologize. Why did you refuse to do what we should do today? He needs a second apologies, because then you refused it because he was the SYRIZA who proposed it. You put the party interest above the national interest, and what I said has been written. It's not a feather. They've been documented. They've been taped and recorded what you said. I have heard many and important things from my previous colleagues about the forthcoming exploratory contacts between Greece and Turkey. Thoughts, remarks excellent. And the analyses gorgeous. But without a backing to the current reality. What's the reality? Let's not miss anything. A meeting was held in Berlin in July on the negotiating procedures. And we don't know exactly what was agreed then. Are we afraid of something? Is there anything we can hope for? What we hope or what we fear has been done in part or started in Berlin last July. Some fears, for example, were expressed by Professor Valinakis at the "Kathmerini" Sunday. I would like to close by asking Mr Dendia two questions, with all understanding of his difficult task, with all the recognition of his civilized function. "You surrendered ethnicity and language," said Mr Manolakos. What's his position on this Crystal statement just an hour and a half ago? Is this the sample of the national understanding sought by the New Democracy, a minimum or even national understanding? Secondly, does she plan to formally react to what Mrs Bakoyannis said in relation to the German Foreign Minister? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to the objections of counter-population, which, if I may say so, insists on returning to the crime scene. It is well known that our criticism of the tooling of subjects, such as the gyalitis zone of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikos Kotzias, is known on the day of the Ministry's tradition in Alexis Tsipras, where he threw the firework. It did not happen during his term of office, it did not follow the year until the elections in July 2019, and that is the criticism we then made responsibly and seriously. We are discussing today and we are calling for a vote tomorrow on national self-evidentness, that is to say, the exercise of the right that is unilaterally conferred on us by international law, for the expansion of hayalitis. However, the fact that we have not done so for a long time now marks the point today - and it is important to underline this - the change of a page in our foreign policy and the passage from inertia and passivity, active policy and the theoretical invoicing, if you like, of the International Law, to its practical and immediate implementation, both in the aegial zone and in the EEZ agreements, which we signed in the previous period. This change, of course, has to do with the change in international conditions and, above all, Turkey's behaviour, following the collapse of its European perspective, the turn to authoritarianism in the interior and the revision abroad, with the spearhead of the doctrine of the 'Blueland Country', which really sets fire to the peace and stability of the Eastern Mediterranean and concerns our country, Cyprus and all the coastal countries in the region. And, of course, it is about the militarisation of Turkish foreign policy, about Turkey's direct involvement in wars in Libya, Syria, the Caucasus, with the opening of bases in nine countries in the Mediterranean, the Indian, the Gulf and so on. Our country, despite Turkey's threats and pressure, has been a good neighbour, who wanted and supported its European prospect, I would venture to say, as much as any other country in Europe. We sincerely want agreement with Turkey on the basis of International Law, but we are also very determined not to allow any questioning of our sovereignty and our sovereign rights as demonstrated in 2020. In 2020 Greece proved this and responded effectively to the Turkish challenges and to Evros, let us not forget this, and of course to the sea, the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. The strategy of internationalisation builds up new alliances with Middle East countries, the Arab world, Israel and expands our roots in Europe and the United States. There, tomorrow, he swears a new President, there is new government and new balances, away from the special relationship that had been cultivated between him and the US President and the Turkish President. At the same time, we are moving towards upgrading our deterrent power and guaranteeing our rights beyond their invoicing, as is done in this bill. Our effort, Mr President, is on many levels and on many fronts, and it should be understood as an overall strategy. Those who deny, for example, the exploratory, ignorant or evil, that is something I have also written in 'Sunday Day', referring to the previous speaker, who referred only to the article by my good colleague Giannis Valenakis - lead to the undermining of our diplomatic effort and seek to make a great gift in Turkey of Erdogan, which, in the end, would thus become a defendant and from a country completely wrong, would find pretexts to show us as unfair while we are fully justified. This delicate balance of calm determination must be safeguarded at all times, responsible for serving the national interest. We are neither naive nor populist. In this context - and I would like to stress this - it is a good thing that most opposition parties, and SYRIZA, are also drafted by the resolution and the previous Rafale bill that we had last week. Unified domestically activated abroad as never before, we have no reason to remain optimistic about our national course towards a difficult and long-term opponent, such as Turkey, a long-lasting problem, which comes from the past and has in front of it - in my opinion still enough, unfortunately, for the future. I think that this is how we can go, with the success that we had in 2020 in dealing with the Turkish pressure, doing the right thing both inside and internationally, so that we have the positive result that the Greek people want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in his letter of 19 January 2021, tells us about the election of Mr Ioannis Bougas as Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. To wish him good power and good success.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u156	Good luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u157	Foreign Minister Nikolaos Dendias has the floor and immediately thereafter the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece follows and the process is completed. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to recommend to the National Representation on behalf of the Mitsotakis Government the vote of this bill, which provides for the exercise of our country's right to increase our territorial waters in the Ionian Sea region until Cape Tinaro from six to twelve nautical miles. This extends the space of national sovereignty by thirteen thousand or more square kilometres. This is the first time since 1947 that the national Parliament has been called upon to vote for an increase in the area of national sovereignty. This is, I repeat, the exercise of full national sovereignty, not the area of sovereign rights. The Government has made this major national move, exercising the country's inalienable right, on the basis of Article 3 of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is at the same time an element of the rule of customary international law. The bill was submitted to Parliament following the adoption of Presidential Decree 107/2020 on the closure of tricks and the creation of straight lines of base in the Ionian Sea and Ionian Islands, until Cape Tainaro. In accordance with Article 1(2) of the draft law, the Hellenic Republic shall also reserve the right to extend the gynaecological zone to other areas of the territory of which it deems appropriate. I want to stand here just a minute, because there was a very big debate about where, how, when, who, what. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is preparing and maintaining the right to extend its territorial waters anywhere on its territory, whenever it decides. Of course, I understand that the eyes are turning to Crete, because that is where the memorandum has been signed with Egypt. But we are restricting national law if we are talking only about Crete. Greece has the inalienable right to extend anywhere and whenever it wants its territorial waters to twelve miles. I want to be very clear about this from the Step of the National Representation. I also want to welcome the extremely important repetitive statement by the Russian Minister, Mr Sergei Lavrov, who self-evidently describes Greece's communication as expanding its yacht zone. I would also like to thank the parties and colleagues, because so far the parliamentary process has been conducted in a climate of national unity without the usual meaningless counter-references and micro-party calculations. The existence of a national consensus on the main foreign policy priorities of the country was confirmed at yesterday's meetings with all parties' representatives privately. Ladies and gentlemen, respect for international law and international legality is a time-consuming principle. It guides the Greek foreign policy firmly, regardless of the governments. However, I should like to say that there is also an additional dimension: UNCLOS has been automatically ratified by the European Union. It is, therefore, - and I repeat - part of the European acquis, not only of the Greek internal legal order. In this respect, it binds all the countries of the European Union and the European Union itself as a separate entity. In a region, even at a time characterised by major reshapings, the practical implementation of the provisions of International Law, including the Law of the Sea, is of particular importance. With the submission to the Greek Parliament of the bill for the expansion of the kayalitis zone in the Ionian Sea, we are taking a step further in the implementation of the national planning with regard to the maritime zones of the country. The extension comes immediately after the conclusion of an agreement demarcation of maritime zones with Italy and Egypt and also our agreement on how to deal with the issue with Albania. Thus, with the bill under discussion, our country is added to those which have made use of the relevant clause of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. It thus consolidates the importance of its provisions vis-à-vis all, especially those who choose not to apply or ignore it, i.e. those of the least developed persons under international law. And here I have to make a special reference to the unacceptable tactic of neighbouring Turkey threatening to casus belli Greece, since it exercises its legitimate rights. The way we have followed, from a technical point of view, to define the limits of the gynaecological zone and the closure of the tricks that preceded the President-in-Office's decree, is entirely compatible, ladies and gentlemen, with the Law of the Sea. Our country, as you know, does not act abusively and in the eyes of others, of course fully exercises its rights with full respect for international legality. The expansion of our yacht zone in the Ionian Sea strengthens our security, magnifies our print and at the same time strengthens Greece's international position both in relation to the countries with which we build a grid of cooperation in our area to strengthen stability and security as well as to those who do not share the same principles with us. Ladies and gentlemen, this country with the greatest area of sovereignty, with the greatest areas of dominance for a few months now, creates a model of consistency, methodicity, observance of legitimacy, commitment to objectives, but also a model of self-confidence. I would, however, like to take the opportunity to allow me, because many colleagues have commented on it, to say a few words about the resumption of the exploratory talks. First of all, I would like to remind you that the constant crisis in our relations with Turkey was particularly strong - the government reiterated its readiness for dialogue, but has always set the same clear conditions in time. It called for Turkey's provocative actions to be stopped on our continent, to withdraw the 'ORUC REIS'. This same Greek position was adopted by the European Council in December in its conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been completed two months since the withdrawal of the 'ORUC REIS', almost two months. Therefore, the term that has been set out by our country has been substantially fulfilled. We can therefore say that there is an opportunity for dialogue, always in the context of and at the level of the investigative contacts. In this dialogue Greece comes with good faith, comes with honesty because the national view is that with dialogue problems are solved, not by force and, of course, not by threats of war. Of course the investigative contacts - the government has said on several occasions - relate exclusively to our difference in the continental and exclusive economic zone, as has been defined and as has been carried out so far, just as it will continue. The solution to this dispute has been explicitly recognised, as has the subject matter, by the European Union, with the Council's conclusions and by the official position of State Department for the United States, but also by the reference made by Turkey itself that the next meeting will be the sixteenth meeting clearly gives the same meaning as ever. I would also like to remind you that the dialogue that will begin on 25 January is not a negotiation. It is a preliminary stage of contact to examine any common perceptions and to determine whether there is any ground for opening a negotiation. And it goes without saying that in order for this dialogue to continue, the de-escalation that has already occurred should not be jeopardised. That is exactly what the European Council has said in December, stressing that not only for the repetition, but also for the continuation of exploratory investigations, is required of certain stable de-escalation. Finally, because a lot has been heard in the Chamber about the role of third parties and Germany and the Albanian Prime Minister, I would really like to remind you that, throughout its Presidency, Germany had contacted both sides at various levels, promoting the resumption of the Greek-Turkish dialogue. Finally, as you know, the agreement on the date for the resumption of the exploratory contacts has been reached and announced after the end of the German Presidency. Many friendly countries have been offered at times to host any meeting with my Turkish counterpart. Albania is also included in these countries through the offer of the Albanian Prime Minister. In all of these, however, we had announced in time that we needed firstly to launch exploratory contacts and, secondly, to establish a new climate in Greek-Turkish relations to meet with my counterpart. That's it, that's it, and that's what remains our position. Ladies and gentlemen, I share and repeat. The vote of the bill by the Plenary Assembly of the National Representation is a step towards strengthening our national arsenal in a climate of uninterrupted national unity, with additional weapons our recent agreements with the United States. Here I would like to make a reference to the outgoing US Secretary of State, Mr Mike Pombeo, with whom we have had excellent cooperation and who has listened to the fair positions of our country in the agreement with Italy, the agreement with Egypt, the understanding of how we will proceed with Albania, the agreements with the United Arab Emirates, the extension of our territorial waters, the extension of the national air space now in the Ionian Sea region, is, of course, identical with our national waters, with the policy of broad horizons that serves the interests of the new Greek two hundred years. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. Now the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, we are following with great interest the debate in this House, the positions of the government and all the political parties. I have to say, however, that these days have swamped down the government's decision to extend the hayalitis zone to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea. They give and take the big words that we have historical moments, that the Greek territory is growing, that the area of national sovereignty is growing since '47 and more. Of course, to tell the whole truth, some large energy colossians are more celebrating, who are already handing the plots in the Ionian region to get their own profits. That is why the JRC is taking this issue seriously and responsibly. There are no big words or celebrations here. The JRC clearly pointed out that our country, like all states, has the right to a yacht zone up to the twelve nautical miles and to its determination on the basis of the average distance, the average line, where necessary and where necessary. And that, in our view, applies and must apply regardless of when this right will be exercised. The resolution of the problems relating to the gynaecitis zone, however, in demarcation of a continental continental shelf and an EEZ for the benefit of the people's interests, must be linked to three key issues that must be addressed in any decision, in our view. It is linked, firstly, to the building of mutual benefit relationships between neighbouring states and peoples. It is linked, secondly, to the exploitation of marine wealth on the basis of the labour needs of the people. It is linked, thirdly, to the release of the country from imperialist alliances that have hostile plans for the people, and in any case to all of them, to make the people in their own country. Today, unfortunately, the interests of the monopolies are being served, bazaars are being served by the ruling class to upgrade its position in the region and not to upgrade the interests of the people and the country. For all these reasons, we in tomorrow's vote are 'at present'. Ladies and gentlemen, as the country grows to the dangerous plans of the United States, NATO, the European Union, the expansion of the hayalitis zone to twelve miles, obviously linked to everything above, it can only increase competition in the region. We remind you that with about the same drum impact a few months ago you brought for ratification to the House and agreements establishing an EEZ with Italy and Egypt. We then told you that these agreements are precisely because they are part of the dangerous pursuits of the United States, NATO and the European Union, because they may complicate the already tense situation throughout the region. Do you remember what you were telling us then? You said that these agreements were an impediment to Turkish aggression, that they cancel the illegal Turkle pact and a number of other things about it. However, these expectations have been disproved. The bucket was further complicated. Problems with Turkey deteriorated, as its aggression not only was not interrupted during this period, but was even more escalated by the walks of the "ORUC REIS" within the Greek EEZ and the new challenges against Greece. Because when you proceed to a partial extension of the country's territorial waters and sign agreements with neighbouring countries such as Italy, Egypt, but agreements providing for withdrawals from sovereign rights, such as the smallest influence on the Greek islands, what you are doing is to open the appetite to the objectives of the Turkish ruling class, which puts forward similar arguments to promote its unacceptable claims. And since we are on the eve of the start of the exploratory talks, you know very well that Turkey in this sixty-first round of exploratory contacts will put all the claims it raises in public, despite what the government says that the only issue of dialogue is EEZ and the continental shelf. Besides, the experience of all the previous sixty around us tells us that they gave her the opportunity to systemify and broaden these unacceptable claims, which start from the territorial waters and their range, as well as the airspace range, including the gray zones, reach until the demilitarisation of the islands and continue. Does anyone have the illusion that Turkey will be confined to discussing only the EEZ and the continental shelf, or does anyone have the illusion of getting a brake on its challenges? We don't think so. The dialogue table has been set up by the Americans, NATO, the European Union, those who are smiling this aggression and making back on its claims. And those who are now after each other to welcome the approach are themselves who are being cut off to promote their own interests and, of course, to ensure maritime cohesion in the region. That is why you have been emptied not a few times, as recently in December at the summit, where the European Union, with its preliminary draft, merely concerned the aggression of the Turkish Government with false sanctions, while again referring to the ultimate future the assessment of the situation. Unfortunately, your own banks within the European Union give Erdogan time to make a fait accompli. This is, unfortunately, the situation. And if anyone sees the so-called sanctions described, which are similar to those already decided on illegal Turkish drilling in the EEZ of Cyprus, they will understand that they have no objection. What is bored in the decisions of the European Union, particularly its leading core, is the strategy of cooperation with Turkey, the multiformal economic, geopolitical, military relations that the leading Member States of the European Union have with it, such as Germany, for example. In this way, what also determines the attitude of the United States and NATO is to keep Turkey in the Euro-Atlantic camp at all costs in return. In this case too, the consideration they offer rests on our country's sovereign rights and this will not change because in the United States the government has changed its hands because it has passed through the Republicans' hands in the hands of the democrats, from the unbalanced Trump to Biden. The United States policy has continued and is determined first of all by its own exclusive interests in the wider region. You know that very well, as well as the people in the region who have experienced wars, have experienced destruction of their countries, coups, overthrows of elected governments, both with governments of Republican and democratic. Something has also been heard by the American people, the same people who live on exploitation in their country, poverty, unemployment, crisis, repression, racism. This is both inside and outside the notorious American democracy, which, unfortunately, you are all fascinating so many years in here, until the sky fell and plunged you when its limits were revealed, about who and how they are elected and who are ruling, with this far-right cord who was smuggled into Capitol, with this hideous content. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey - and to say things by their name, the ruling class of this country and not its people - has opened up the entire vendal of claims, with the avata given by the Americans and NATO, that is, the allies. Because first they don't recognize borders in the Aegean. They consider it a single operational area for their dangerous projects, and these projects focus on the consideration of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. And if we take into account what the Latin American Ambassador said about the need to redesign the energy map of the region, we all understand that co-existence is about energy colostrums, which are "scared" to put this region's wealth in hand. And this mess won't end by sharing. On the contrary. It is precisely because competition is too great, the sharing will prepare the ever greater'slaughter' that will follow, but with disastrous consequences for the people. Krikos, in the dangerous plans that your allies have for the region, is the resolution of the Cyprus issue, by seeking a federal solution with two founding states, a solution that is not only a solution for the Cypriot people because it leads to the definitive division of the island. The dangerous developments that are prescribed before us show all those years of mocking the Greek people that the US, NATO, the European Union will ensure peace and security, protect our country's sovereign rights. They expose all those who ruled and ruled, from New Democracy and the PASOK before, to SYRIZA who proved to be NATO's navy. And I'm not going away. Only the Greek-American deal to catch is enough. And I'm talking about the deal SYRIZA gave you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. This deal was prepared by SYRIZA. This agreement has been passed by your Government and now you are preparing to strengthen it further with its five-year and not annual renewal, as is the case in the last thirty years. Throughout the country bases, ports, airports, infrastructures have been made available for murderous operations by strategic allies, the USA and NATO. All concessions for these military infrastructures have the signature of all those who have ruled, and now you are also giving them other bases throughout the country. No security arises for the people from strengthening our country as a naval camp. On the contrary, they turn it into a magnet of attacks. And don't tell us again about the active diplomacy exercised by the government. SYRIZA said the same thing about his multi-dimensional foreign policy. Because active diplomacy for you is to strengthen in all ways your military and political relations, for example with Israel, which murders the Palestinians, who are leading the threats to the people of Iran, other peoples in the region. Also, it is to strengthen your relations with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, states involved up to the barriers to competition and wars. For you, active diplomacy is to send Greek Armed Forces to imperialistic missions abroad, which have absolutely no connection with our country's defence. What do Greek soldiers have to do outside the border? Why are you sending military forces to Mali, Africa? What is the unit of the Patriot missile system in Saudi Arabia? Nor the freshly-built rafale has anything to do with our country's defence. We talked about this last week. The work of active diplomacy is the proof of a more active involvement in imperialist projects, because that is what the pursuits, the interests of the bourgeoisie, an elite and not of the people require. At a time when competition between imperialist centres is growing, when the United States is constrained with China about who will take the lead, who will have the lead in the modern capitalist world, at a time when their competition with Russia and the European Union is exacerbating, the policy of active involvement is becoming even more dangerous. We are mainly addressing the Greek people, the Greek youth. Now is the time to strengthen their struggle for the removal of our country from imperialist US, NATO, the European Union. Now is the time to fight for the removal of bases from Greece, for the releasing of the country by imperialist organisations. Now is the time for everyone to take their place in the fight together with the JRC, to strengthen solidarity, the common struggle of the peoples, to follow their own path, to take the fates in their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for the Environment, Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and Home Affairs, have today tabled a draft law: ‘(a) Repeal of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria on the pipeline interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria (IGB Project) and (b) Settlement of the Statute of the Eastern Natural Gas Forum (EMGF)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-19-S1-commons.u162	With the agreement of the House at 17.56' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 January 2021, at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate and (b) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Definition of the range of gynaecological zone in the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands to Cape Tainaro in the Peloponnese".
