ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 30-3-2021 delegation, the minutes of the Committee on Regional Policy, Regional Planning and Relations with Regional and Local Authorities were ratified by the Bureau on Tuesday, 30 March 2021. Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1782/09-03-2021 on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination pursuant to Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information until 09-07-2019, Nicholas Pappas, in the performance of his duties: 1) Donation of a political official against and continuously (Article 159 of the Criminal Code) and 2) Obligation of a Derivator of Cruise and Continuity (Prime Code 259) in accordance with the proposal.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Expressive arrangements for the protection of public health against the continuing consequences of the CIVID pandemic -19, development, social protection and reopening of courts and other matters".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Skourletis, I've been informed. I'll give you the minutes and I'll give you the floor later. The above bill, following the decision of the Co-Chaired Committees on Social Affairs and Finance, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the debate and the vote on urgent drafts is due to be concluded at a meeting of a maximum of ten hours. During the urgent debate, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved. I now propose that Parliament's practice, which is far from the urgency procedure, as you will understand, that the debate on the principle and on the articles should be uniform and that the speaking time should be extended, but without the right of secondaryity. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, a first cycle, which will include one speaker from each parliamentary group and two twelve speakers, the first with a natural presence and the second with a teleconferencing service, with the following ratio: five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA, one from the other parties. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. With regard to the extended speaking time, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakeres 15 minutes and the competent ministers eighteen minutes. Any other Ministers and State Secretarys five minutes. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group twenty minutes. The rest of the Presidents 15 minutes. The Parliamentary Representatives 12 minutes. The speakers appointed by the parties are seven minutes. As you can see from time to time, it is a normal draft procedure and not what is imposed by the Rules of Procedure. I think there is no objection to the basic suggestion. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u5	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to Mr Blucho, I will give the floor to Mr Skourletis, who wants to make a statement and a statement in the Minutes of the House. He'll tell us himself. Mr. Skourletis has the floor. Mr. Skourletis, I don't give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u6	You don't have to. Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to present a letter, as you said, from Mr Drasakis in the Minutes of the House. It concerns a response due to what had been said in plenary on 23 March with specific references by Mr Varoufakis on the handling of the Vice-President of the Government in SYRIZA on the issues of the OPAP. I think it's a very serious matter. Mr Drasakis was unable to attend because of the measures on the coronary and to respond on the spot. I think it is necessary to present it so that things are cleared up very seriously, which, before they are said, should be documented. That is why I asked for the floor and for it to be tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u7	We are starting the debate on the draft law with the rapporteur from the New Democracy Party, my colleague, Dramas, Mr Konstantinos Blouchos, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill introduced today by the Greek state shows the light at the edge of the pandemic tunnel. This is essentially a compelling multilingual draft, which in most articles gives it an extension of existing provisions. Provisions concerning the Ministries of Health, Economics, Interior, Justice, Development, Education, Labour and Social Policy, Digital Governance, Culture and Sport and Tourism are the chapters of the present. As far as the provisions relating to the Ministry of Health are concerned, the bill has two parts. With regard to the first part, the provisions of the Ministry of Health adopted by legislative acts already ratified by a law of 31 March are extended until 30-6-2021. All the proposed provisions are intended to protect public health against coronary. In addition to the provisions of Part One, a regulation is introduced as to the availability by private pharmacopoeia of rapid antigen tests to carry out coronary disease checks, as the provision provides for the availability of a self-diagnostic procedure for disease control. It is intended to distribute state-of-the-art and temporary AMKA to each holder, a self-diagnostic control procedure per week, intended for individual use, without the need for medical professionals to carry out it, as well as the conditions for authorisation for disposal. With regard to the second part of the regulations relating to the Ministry of Health, the proposed regulations regulate the insurance fees for medicinal products and the participation of patients, the costs of the Ministry of Health for the maintenance of the information system, the ‘BI HEALTH’. It is clear that health care providers may be any form of public hospitals, legal persons governed by public law or private law. Themes of pups are regulated in nursing units with any ambulances. Ministerial decision on employment, education and the method of selecting those trained in chronic dialysis units is laid down. The deadline for setting up the Legal Affairs Division is extended to EEAS. Conditions are laid down to identify the outstanding debts of the EEAS to health service providers and to regulate issues relating to low molecular weight expenditure for public hospitals. Issues of financial management and supervision of mental health prevention centres are regulated, the possibility of authorising doctors for 10 days to those taking part in voluntary actions. Payroll costs shall be legalised for the provision of cleaning services, emergency supplies of medical equipment and received newspapers in public health structures. As far as it relates to the Ministry of Finance is concerned, it continues consistently, methodically and responsibly to plan, but also to implement policies to address the adverse economic impact of the economic crisis, always on the basis of economic efficiency and social recompense. In this context, it brings the 'GEOFYRA 2' programme, aimed at supporting businesses, not natural persons, who are tested by the economic impact of the pandemic. It should be recalled that the Government has already successfully implemented the GFCF programme for borrowers affected by the financial consequences of the pandemic and has loans with attachment, mortgage on first place residence. It is a successful programme, since the total number of applications exceeded sixty thousand over three months, twenty-three times higher than the number of applications submitted to the previous government's provisional programme and which lasted for thirteen months. The total amount of state subsidy to be paid to the beneficiaries of the programme will be EUR 96 million, i.e. essentially the citizens who would pay the banks at EUR 96 million, this burden is borne by the state budget, making it easier for citizens in their daily lives and for the non-inflation of red loans in the bank portfolios. The new 'GEOFYRA 2' programme is aimed at businesses, both those in debts served, so we support the consistency, we support the culture of payments, and those in which they cannot meet their credit obligations. With regard to the Ministry of Justice, specific procedural rules are laid down for the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and the regular administrative courts, with a view to serving the accelerated, simplified and friendly procedure for ordering administrative disputes and avoiding indoor co-ordination. With regard to the Ministry of Education, there is an explicit reference to the possibility of partial repayment of suppliers, it is planned to carry out electoral procedures at the EIT by means of an electronic vote, to subject coronary diagnostics to the condition that all students and students are involved in the lifelong learning process. The procedure and the control bodies, the possibility of self-control and their frequency shall be defined. Arrangements are made for the Institute of Computer and Publications “DIOFANOS”. Transitional arrangements are set out for the National Vocational Training and Lifelong Learning System and arrangements are made for quality indicators of achievements of HEIs. To conclude this brief reading - of course there are many other provisions, which are in the sense of extending existing provisions - in the rest of my time as majority rapporteur, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to dwell on issues relating to the course of the pandemic, the objections of many to the issues raised by the National Health System in the logic and perspective of the sanctuary doctor, which I continue to maintain. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the pandemic caused by the transmission of the new coronary. It is not a local phenomenon, of course, while it is a global phenomenon, every state entity is faced with its own problems exclusively, which it has to deal with in the pandemic environment. The current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is unfortunate about what is happening in the world, but it is a lucky country, because no other government could more effectively look at the truth in the face and with realistic view to working in the interests of the citizen. The imperial philosopher Dimitrios had emphatically noted that there are two kinds of knowledge, Mr. Xanthi: one is genuine and the other is the dark one. Evidently, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Great and also of the Elasson Representation, have chosen the path of the second, the ill and the dark. You probably don't want to recognize the real problem. For example, it is not the area of the ESS of opportunistic action, as you think, to exhaust it in terms of social employment, with unskilled or other staff. Where did you see that? What quality of health services do we aim at? By social policy on health employment, will we achieve an upgrade of the health system, with unskilled personnel? So let us get rid of the issue of social policy in other places. And because the time of taking responsibility from you will never arrive, at least let us attempt, mentioning some real facts. You keep talking about hundreds of dead people, about deaths. Are you trying to wake up legal vampires and vampires to develop responsibility for deaths? Do you want to criminalize the ESS, its employees, scientists, political leadership? What envy and malignant crusade and vigilance is that? Don't you bear any responsibility for deforestation, staff and functions of the ERC? The deaths involve active faces. How can this be a popular argument? What about deaths in this room? However, in your debate all you are interested in is satisfying the syndicate of any interests, unreasonablely appealing to established recommendations in whichever establishment is established. Serve and continue to serve the absolute synagogue right. You are targeting distinguished scientists in an individual way, you are envying against excellence, as the limitation of your field of vision is manifested in an inaccurate knowledge, because you simply do not know the true knowledge - I do not believe this for some of you - whether you are followers of dark and incorrect knowledge. And because you're twirling in the vortex of your political void and becoming so unscrupulous in mudology, I wonder what political nightmares you're spending on this tactic. I'm really wondering! To put things in place at some point, when we talk about change deaths, in the civilized world of the West, where there is confidence in the scientific community, there is always talk of morbidity and mortality as being the absolute and especially qualitative indicators of the services provided. We know that. They are, therefore, evaluated to launch improvements, particularly at the level of improvement, reliability and validity of those who provide services, and quite clearly not in the logic of showing responsibility. You know that very well, at least you, Mr. Xanthi. It is the logic of continuous internal self-assessment, something foreign to Greek reality, for good reasons. Why, first of all, can this serve to serve moderateness and evil in the area, perhaps, and secondly, why should it be an absolute internal improvement process, in Greece what serves? The cannibalism of scientists. And the occupants always move around with fear and threat of slashing into courtrooms. Without essential protection umbrellas, doctors are entangled and troubled as if they were the most harmful factors. Do you not understand that this debate, so that most of you have raised it in Parliament, is like shooting our own legs, our people who are fighting at the moment? We are here to offer political protection, but also any protection to those who are currently involved in this difficult struggle and that is what you should do. When we talk about failure of the ESS, what do we mean? I've used the term and many others use it, but I don't know what point it is. Do we not mean whether it has quality and what credibility it has anyway? Generally and wisely, do we not mean, above all, its functional weakening and deduction of its services, which primarily relate to the validity and reliability of the subject-matters who provide these services? When you are targeting people in the scientific community, you are making an effort to memorize certain people, who are likely not to suit you - it is understood - they are not rather saving your faiths and your assessments credibility. You've been doing it a lot, Paulie, lately. Firstly, this approach is tragic and purely tooling. As far as the committee is concerned, we are dealing here with a collective nature, not with individual parentheses, and above all we are dealing with people who, in good or bad, do not handle the speech with political implications. So what they need for them, for you or for those who wait in the corner to strip them. Secondly, why should we be ostriching, when everyone agrees and is 'consistent' all these years about our reality, the one we have? And this is no more than the deterioration of the mediocracy. But it is a given fact that in any of your possible management we would probably be talking about maliciousness and potential for engaging academic caucasism. Thirdly, it can still not be a question now, because this is our reality, which does not change. Our reality does not change with automation, especially at that level. We all know that thing. In particular, it changes gradually. Isn't that right? Gradually, with the inspiration and engravement of a new culture. You call on many people in this Chamber and other oppositions, as in the aftermath: "The doctors say, the sanitaries." Firstly, let us not use the agony and overreactivity of the people who are now acting as a policopoly. Secondly, merciful to all these workers, supposedly fighters of speech, who are constantly talking about the real fighters and who really fighters - you know - do not have time for their personal hygiene, let alone constantly speak for their unfair or unequal struggle! Those who speak are rather dominant smokers or seals, fighters of fighters. Let's take a raw look at the realities of the ERC. In the area of nurses and nurses, who do we have? Several and several employees, TSE Nursing, a few U.S. Nursing, many U.S. Nursing, at the same time as other subsidiary categories. Do we not know at this time that with what has been done lately, over the last year, the government and the Ministry of Health that our lists of the use of this staff have been exhausted? Let me give you a simple example. At Drama Hospital, we have fully covered the organization with regard to the Nursing Service. There are three hundred twenty-one seats and three hundred nineteen are currently serving. Is that enough? That's not enough. There will be a need for changes in the agencies, and a great deal will be needed. And you know what? We got ten T.T.s we can't find them. We have the approval, and we don't have it. I wish we had. They'd also help the system. They don't exist or I don't know where they exist. If you're looking for them and find them, you can tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Blucho, slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u10	I'll be late. Slow down on my second speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u11	There are no seconds to the emergency. By way of derogation, we gave normal time. If we went under the Rules of Procedure, it should be half. You have a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u12	I'll be done in a minute. Give me two minutes, Mr. President. On the other hand, in the field of doctors, we have years and major problems. You know them very well and you as former Minister, Mr. Xanthi. Centre-region unequal distribution. Is it solved? Can we solve this now? A substantial redesign is needed, with a change in the health map, to reassess organisations that no longer serve the modern needs, in combination with a clear design, both primary and postnatal, which does not exist in Greek reality and no one speaks of it. In other words, there is a need for effective evaluation and rationalised approaches rather than simply applying known or non-practices that may thrive elsewhere, but any application of them to our established hospital reality will create vibrations and precariousness. Secondly, unscrupulous positions in the region. Third, barren specialties. Motivation and professional orientation are required. When will that work? In a decade's perspective, all of this will be done. Faced with these real problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Colleague, I can't give you any more time. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. But these are important issues. I'd like to talk a little bit more for a minute if I have the tolerance of this House. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u15	It's not a matter of tolerance to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u16	And the tolerance of the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u17	We need to close down at a certain hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u18	We haven't covered major sections, because they've been heard - and they've been heard - a lot lately...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u19	Today we are talking about a bill, not a health policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u20	We will hear how the others will speak, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be said. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is here with two main objectives. Firstly, to see and to shed light on the truth of reality - which you want to ignore - without ideological fixtures, without hysteresis and without hindrances. Secondly, every citizen, especially every citizen in need, should be at the side of work to ensure maximum public health, public welfare and public security. That is why we have been elected, and that is why we are also committed to permanent care. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u21	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr George, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. With all due respect to you, I would like to repeat what I said yesterday in committee. Next time the government brings the bills once the committees and the plenary have been opened, so that the final function can reach the level of automation: that they should be voted on. Spray, wipe, you're done! Obviously, the government would have a reason to do this, namely to bring in a broom bill, a supermarket bill. Because there are not only provisions of the Ministry of Health, but almost half of the Ministerial Council. And it's not small, as far as I'm concerned, the Ministerial Council. There are provisions of half the Ministerial Council! And he brings them by this procedure on what day? On the day on which the debate on the setting-up of a preliminary inquiry committee is under way in plenary session. This is the government's proposal, obviously, for the consensual treatment of pandemic. It found the "perembol", which is the toxicity in politics, the dispersion of toxicity, the division. This is, obviously, the vaccine, the proposal of the Mitsotakis Government, when we are at the peak of the pandemic, when we are at the edge of the razor. Yesterday we had most of the cases since they were recorded after the pandemic and record records were started in the intubated. We never escaped! - in the macabre comparisons of statistical data, which the Members of the New Democracy did. They took the non paper and denounced it either in the House or in the media, making comparisons to the number of the dead. Until the time came - never to come - Greece last week to be the first to all these statistical categories. It's sad, but that's what the government does. Only communication, toxicity where he thinks it's necessary and blood on the arena. I am referring to the debate yesterday, which Mr Mitsotakis says, according to the interpretations every time, wants to rally the extreme audience of the New Democracy. What do these fellow citizens of the extreme hearing of the New Democracy want? Blood on the arena, and Mr. Mitsotakis provides it with the bottle of the stove? Is that what you want right now and communication, communication, communication? The last "effect", the last communication trick is self-test. That is what we have been talking about as the solution to the problem, by indirectly recognising what we have been saying since the first time, that the main, first and foremost, the necessary, is traceability. Immediately you come to recognize it. Immediately, not openly, do not and misunderstand that you have adopted a proposal that has been made to you since the beginning. But how do you do it? With self-test, i.e. moving or trying to move responsibility to others, to citizens. Where there's something good, there's someone who brings salvation to communication. Where things get to the dead end, it's your fault for the others, who play with the danger. And you know self-tests have a matter of credibility and ethics. I don't say it, you don't even say it. It is said by some scientists that this is the case in the other states, the Europeans, who say that self-tests are being used in addition. I said yesterday to the committee: Whoever works as a symptom to do self-symptoms, will come out and say - in view of the risks involved and I think you can understand - that I have done self-symptoms and I am asymptomatic? Is anyone gonna do that? And, in any case, where we are, is it not a disrespect to pain - I do not want to talk about death and death - to behave in a way as if that is not the case, as if there is not, as if there is a parallel universe, as if I were concerned about whether we would go to Easter village? Someone obviously wants to go more than we come from the villages of Atolokarnania or anywhere else, in the village, and that's what concerns him right now. To talk about anything other than how to deal with a marginal situation or rather a situation beyond the limits. Mr Contozamanis recognised this in substance yesterday. It did, of course, in some other psychological interpretations, say, dimension, reaching the point to say that we were happy at the first stage of the pandemic that things went well. That's how they deal with the situation, with the amnesia. We have to say that thing. I am admonished to say that, Mr President. In Norway, a Prime Minister resigned because he violated the measures. Here most likely was the one who denounced the event. In Argentina he resigned because he violated the vaccination order. It would also be praised and distinguished here! I think it became obvious what I wanted to say, that, in the pandemic, in a state of war, as the government and the Prime Minister say, what does the government do? He recruited two hundred doctors while he could've hired them in the time he was intervening. He could have hired them. But he had another interest in hiring university policemen who are closed. In other words, here we have this picture: there are universities that are closed and only the police are in and we have the hospitals tested, just as the people who fight there are marginally, and we do not have recruitment. And what do we have? To have this phenomenon: the government must say that we have war and are effectively excluding the private sector. He actually excludes him. We say that we have nothing with the complementary function of the private sector in the National Health System, we have no such problem, but when the government says that we have war, it cannot be private sector defending its purity towards the coronary. In other words, it says that I am the one about the incidents that do not concern the coronary and are actually creating huge opportunities to increase profits within the debris and the pain that a war has entailed. And I see here, in order to get through to the articles, for example, that they are being recruited - they said so yesterday to the committee - four advisors to the EGE and a journalist. I imagine that those who will come to frame a very large army of advisors, an army that was raised to unprecedented levels of governance of the New Democracy, which were cut when SYRIZA ruled and went out on the tiles with a zero-free propaganda that had no precedent, I hope - I say - these people will be recruited to advise on something that has to do with the practical treatment of pandemic. I hope so. Also, as I said about the private sector, in the pandemic, the government comes with Article 51 and says that the centres of expertise, which have been institutionalised, I am passing away from SYRIZA, from the SYRIZA government, to deal with unpleasant diseases, which are difficult to deal with, such centres may also have the private sector. That is to say, this is done in this situation - it contains a symbolism of this - when the ESS is in a marginal state, it is tested. This communication management of the New Democracy, which as a result is a failure, is also demonstrated by this draft law. How does it turn out? Every time the government comes in and, while it tells the people at every stage of the pandemic that we are going out and the economy will be launched, while the world dies outside the ICU, the government cultivates this record, which takes the character of a fairy tale, that we are launched, that pandemic ends. So it comes and goes from an extension and I don't know when the extensions will end. Even she doesn't know when the extensions will end. The failure of this management, however, proves to be a fact. And we are now coming to some specific issues. Some of that stuff I said. As far as the auctions are concerned, the government comes in every time with the dropping point and makes the extensions. As if it waits, in other words, once it's done, we don't know and when the pandemic will end, start the auction bar. And since we are in this area, I would like to ask the Government if, on the basis of Article 76(15), an auction of a media undertaking is being accelerated, because the government says that it is very sensitive to the media, and that is not a question, it is a question of rhetoric - if this needs are selective in the media. On the basis of this article, it appears that for an undertaking, which is not only an undertaking, i.e. the ‘NAYTTERRIC’, which is under forced management, rather than a trawl, a deadline for the auction, it is in fact accelerating. And I say that it is a media company, in which other media are being printed. And I ask the government why the process should be speeded up rather than dealt with as all other cases of auctioning have been dealt with. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u23	Keep going. You still have two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u24	I'll finish. I won't be misusing time. So I say, as far as casinos are concerned, that care could be taken other than that envisaged for those who are newly recruited and for those who are already working at the casino and who are many. On the issue of recruitment in pre-school institutions I said yesterday that SYRIZA had started the process. It took you about a year and a half and you're finally bringing in a set here that's wrong. We told you to fix it. You're bringing the wrong FEK over here. You're bringing them in at night. You're writing 'em all night! To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the current government has had the luck of having to face it during the pandemic a responsible Civicism which has depleted the limits of responsibility. He depleted it! And the government seems to move in such areas and plays in a marginal situation that we, as I said, are at the edge of the razor with no players. I personally made a statement on 21 February, which is published, that based on the details of the analysts, health data, in Western Greece, we will have unbearable pressure by the end of the first week of March. I made some specific suggestions. I have attempted to find the Commander of the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who has decided to listen to proposals and, obviously, all this system based on a clean communication ground, not just walking around, but denying and listening to the proposals. In conclusion, I would like to say that pandemic was a test at all levels, for all, even at existential level. In no case can it be an opportunity to work, because this would be a hybrid, and the hybrid brings the nemesis, which should in no way fall into the heads of an entire people. On the contrary. As soon as possible we will get out of this trial and there we will have to test each other's proposals for outlets not only health but also economic and social. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u25	Until the Step is cleared, you will allow me to give the floor to Mrs Kerameo for three minutes - because she has to go back to her ministry - to present a provision in the bill. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President, and thank my colleagues very much. I'll be very brief. This bill includes provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. I would like to mention, for example, the extension of the validity of provisions to deal with the dispersion and consequences of the coronary in the field of education by the end of July, the extension of arrangements for the organisation of elections in IITs by means of an electronic vote to ensure the continuity of the institutions. It is envisaged that a ministerial decision may be drawn up as a prerequisite for participation in the educational process, where it is carried out by living, to be subjected to a coronary diagnostic check for students, students, students and trainees. There is a question of defining the framework and procedure for the licensing and modification of permits for lifelong learning centres. It is also possible to extend the scope for a sufficient number of graduates to the Muslim Studies of the Department of Theology of Aristotle University, in order to provide sufficient staff. Finally, there is provision for the Greek State to be able to pay a one-off exceptional grant to religious communities to meet emergencies due to the emergence and dissemination of the coronary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u27	Mr Andreas Pulas has the floor on behalf of the Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled at night, under urgent procedure, is another multiplier - broom of the Ministry of Health with a hundred and fourteen articles of responsibility of more ministries, which we were asked to work on within a few hours. Parliament's surprise is the regularity of the government's Parliamentary surprise over the pandemic-management bills. Since, of the fifty-six articles concerning the Ministry of Health, thirty-three concern extensions of existing legislative provisions and therefore do not introduce new regulations, it is clear that your choice is purely communication. It is part of the effort to give citizens the image of government preparedness. Nevertheless, more and more are getting tired of your communication terraces and realize that you are going without a plan in the triangle of the coron, despite the efforts of some media who sweat to present another picture of reality. You have tired, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with your other decisions, with the measures you ask citizens to keep, when you yourself in some cases do not observe them, with your revolts every week on what activities you intend to open and with the constant public interventions of the Committee of Experts, which are confusing the citizens. Also, cultivate a dangerous climate of complacentness through vaccination. Furthermore, tabling another bill at midnight suggests fear, fear of criticism of your decisions, of your omissions, of your revolts, of your ballots, of criticism that cannot highlight the dimension between your words and your works and to shake the image of the firm governance you want to give. In any case, the exclusive communication management of the pandemic has now tired and fed food to conspiracies and ultimately to non-compliance with the measures and to achieve the opposite result. It is now becoming more and more understandable that the Committee of Logistics is being used in line with government priorities, undermining its credibility. In fact, at the last meetings, Ministers attend, thereby exerting indirect pressure on the committee's conclusions and implicating science with politics. Also, we see that youth turns your back. Doesn't that mean anything to you? With all these measures that you have taken to manage the pandemic, young people are not convinced. We will create new generations of indignant with your policy. So, although the country has been on ice for almost five months, the cases are still steadily high, the number of deaths is not falling, and society and the economy are suffocating. Four thousand cases after five months of prohibition, obviously something is wrong. You haven't done it, and the results don't deserve you. The patience of all of us is beginning to run out. However, instead of self-criticising and correcting errors, this bill continues on the line of choices itself, without improvements and corrective measures. It is therefore impossible to have a different effect. So let's start the tests. While we have pointed out to you since the first period of pandemic that to check the dispersion we need to do most of the tests possible, you have chosen to perform sample diagnostic tests. After the over-representation of the first ban, you opened the country in tourism with sampling tests at the entrance gates, allowing the virus to invade Macedonia and Thrace and then across the territory. You have retreated in front of the demands of the large tourist agencies abroad in order to limit the damage to the national economy, and you have not laid strict health rules on imported tourism, resulting in a rapid increase in cases. Since then, we have experienced a steep growing Golgotha, with initially three digits and more stable four-digit cases. You have benefited millions of rapid test via bodies of the Ministry of Health and Local Government, derogating from the relevant provisions on public procurement, taking into account suspicions of unnecessary and precise supplies, for the benefit of specific interests. Also, legislate on the disposal and running of rapid test by the pharmacy. Really, on what terms, under what conditions? What do the pharmacists say about it? Is it a deal? Today you are proposing once again the individual responsibility of the citizens, throwing the self-test ball at them, just as dubious credibility. You have every citizen to perform a test on his own, as if it were a pregnancy test, giving him responsibility for the proper conduct of the test, without any practical help from the healthcare staff. Do you understand what you're going to do? And then what's next? Do you make the test mandatory in practice, first requiring students, teachers for the reopening of schools, after the judges, lawyers for the functioning of the courts and then public and private servants, to have the right to work? Will you have us all with a hand test? Do you realize the absurdity of the matter, beyond the violation of any citizen's personal freedom to do the test or not? Obviously, this is not a serious picture of a prosperous state in the 21st century, even though, as a government, you have not succeeded either in curbing the dispersion, progress in vaccination, the armoring of the ESS, or in complying with the citizens. In no area you have any success, despite the ambitious efforts made by the media, which systematically display white - black. I also welcome the fact that for the media too, you have a new funding package which is pretentious of the national vaccination campaign. On the issue of vaccination, you are relying solely on the supply of vaccines via the European Union. While the whole of Europe is talking about a failed strategy for the supply of European Commission vaccines and there are countries that turn to other outlets to shield their population, you are waiting for slowly coming vaccines from Brussels. In other words, you are announcing mammoth vaccination centres, which are managed by workers who move them from other health structures. These are the same depleted and afflicted sanitary sanitary devices, which pave every hole in the National Health System and primary health care structures, those for which you only have applause. By moving them from structure to hospital, from health centers to vaccination centers, you are attempting to fill the gaps in the ERC staff. So where is the staff you are claiming to have hired for the armoring of the ESS? What services, on what basis, are they at, while the medical staff are shortened each year? You recently announced numbers for the recruitments you claim you've made, we can't make it. As you present them, you say you have hired fifteen thousand staff and only a week ago you had to recruit two hundred and six doctors. Where is the truth finally? At the same time, you have tacitly converted the ESS into a monothematic. Similarly to the so-called increase in the staff of the ESS, the creation of new IF beds is a magical picture. It must end the misinformation about the development of IF beds. Tell the citizens the truth! In fact, no more ICU beds are created for COVID, just within one night you convert surgery rooms, cardiolog units, heart surgery, neurosurgeons in ICUs - COVIDs, in order to cope with the pressure that the system accepts and you have reduced external medical and surgery by 80%. You do not add value to the RU with IF beds that will stay in the future, but you give temporary solutions to your leg to meet the needs. The reality is that only through donations really added IF beds to the public health system. Outside the ITHs are stacked in piped that wait for a bed and give battle to common beds, without machinery and without specialized support. How many are there, huh? What's the number? How many are there? I heard last night that he's a hundred thirty-one. Are these numbers true? A hundred and thirty-one out of the ICU? You don't shield the NSA, but you destroy it. At the same time, the private sector is getting rich with your tolerance, whether overpriced by diagnostic tests, as at the beginning of the pandemic, whether by leasing beds simple and ICUs with increased daily care costs or even by requisition, as clinical leaders are getting rich. We are constantly asking for the design of the essential upgrading of the ESS with ITH beds that will remain a deposit, with the recruitment of permanent staff, by making use of donations for equipment and infrastructure, while you wait until the pandemic ends, to load the burden of the responsibilities on the remaining staff members of the ESS, to put back the private and public partnerships, the insurance companies and all that you have told us before the crisis. Minister, another question I would like to ask you is why are you going to set aside the cash available in the bank accounts of dependency prevention centres and the promotion of mental health with the grant that each centre receives from the state budget? Instead of upgrading them and involving them in the armouring of the people's mental health in the midst of a pandemic, you choose to drain them financially and lead them to degradation. Finally, we have repeatedly emphasised that we need to look at the whole issue, the issue of drug spending and price control. It makes no sense to maintain a high clawback, while it is not collected and serves the public interest. Nor does it make sense to hold a hostage of an entire industry which brings a very significant amount into the national economy every year, without realistic outlets and prospects. The EEA so far has given no evidence of the amount of clawback that is still due and by whom. What action has he taken to recover it? What measures has it taken to monitor the overall cost of medicinal products? The role of the Negotiation Committee is very important here. It must be ensured that it works quickly, that it retains the pharmaceutical costs and that an innovative medicine is introduced firmly into the Greek market. And here I'm going to put the issue of monoclonal antibodies again. When will you bring them to use by Greek doctors? After all, the pandemic has shown us how important pharmaceutical research and the creation of new drugs are. For these reasons, there is a need for intergroup consultation. The parties must discuss each other, come up with a national drug strategy and look at the future. To put order in the field of pharmaceutical expenditure, which in total and reassessing the situation as it has been shaped and at the height that has been shaped because of the pandemic, we need boldness and honesty and not communication tricks with patches and cuffs. The other provisions, which are the responsibility of the other Ministries, are in the same context as the extensions of existing provisions, for which we have already criticised. They prove that even today, with the experience of a pandemic year, you do not have a specific plan for exiting the country from the health crisis and its consequences. It's not enough to give money. A plan is needed to relaunch the economy, retail trade, tourism, schools, safely and responsibly. You cannot fly the ball of responsibilities permanently to the citizens and the ESS, which are actually the weak link in the chain of responsibilities. The responsibilities lie primarily with the State, which must ensure and lay down the rules for the proper and secure functioning of the country. And in that, unfortunately, you have failed. Minister, the mistakes are human in the face of a pandemic that surprised all mankind. However, the biggest mistake is not to recognise its shortcomings, weaknesses and uncertainties. We have repeatedly made proposals to you and we have indicated to you the mistakes that have been made. Unfortunately, you do not have the wisdom, the flexibility to make the necessary corrective moves, to engage in dialogue with all the parliamentary forces and to reconstruct the ESS with a view to the future. It's time to change the cruising line, now, before it's too late. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u29	You were in your time, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Georgioda, I don't see you here on the list. What provisions do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u33	For Articles 104, 105 and 106, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u34	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three articles concerning the Ministry of Digital Governance. These are Articles 104, 105 and 106, which are, in fact, extensions of time, with a view to the pandemic, to the possibility of making the necessary procedures for permits, either for mobile antennas, or for installations involving radio stations antennas and for the construction of digital television broadcasting networks. One case is for 31 December 2021 and the second case for 30 June 2021. This is all because, because of the coronary, there is a difficulty in the necessary procedures, autopsies, documents from engineers or whatever is foreseen. It is known that at the moment there is also a delay in the handling of similar cases in urban areas, so in order to restore the proper functioning on the basis of the existing legislative framework as a whole, this extension of a few months is given to enable all interested parties to complete these loose ends. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u36	Mr Georgiodda, this is why Mr Katrinis wants to ask you something. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are talking about the application of a law of 2019, but also about mobile telephony companies that participated in the auction of the 5G spectrum. In fact, the total amount was only 5 million more than the minimum price. And you really come to the National Representation for the third or fourth time to grant an extension? We're talking about the country's digital modernisation, and can't mobile companies collect certificates to apply for an antenna license for a year and a half? And that's something we're serious about in this Chamber? The first and the second time we said 'all right'. But at some point you should make it clear to us - and that is what I want to ask you - whether you are determined to put mobile telephony companies before their responsibilities. And I say this because all this delay leads to a network that goes down all the time, low speeds and to be in the last positions, on the basis of yesterday's spedtest.net announcement. And you, instead of pushing them through the EPCT or through the Ministry, come to the House every three months and give extensions to their contractual obligations. You have to tell us if this is the last time you do it and if you are finally determined to put them to their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I think there is a mistaken impression, which I hope is not done intentionally by my colleague, who is usually very well read. Article 104 refers to the extension given to the normalisation of the aerial construction of mobile communications companies, where necessary. You know very well that many of the civil servants, due to the special permits and the problems that exist, cannot do the necessary autopsy and give the necessary assurances. In other words, it has to do with construction and not with any other aspect of the licensing process, which can indeed be done electronically. We are talking about construction. Those concerned with towns and the public as a whole at this time of the coronary know very well that, unfortunately, due to the special circumstances, there is a delay in carrying out these self-conscious things. That is the reason, Mr Colleague, and of course we would not like to come here and ask for a new extension. But, as arrhythmias have been created in all of us and in the normality of our lives as a whole, so there is a specific situation here that we need to regulate and facilitate the process, because, as you quite rightly said, the 2019 Act now gives a clear framework, which will also apply. However, we must also give the parties concerned the opportunity to comply with what we have anticipated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u40	Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, Mr President, to begin with this comment. This process, initiated by the previous Minister, could enter after the end of the speeches, the speeches made by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. I do not say that because I am in Stepma, but because I think that should be done, and much more about such a multi-brand plan, which concerns so many ministries. As has been said, it concerns half the government, perhaps even more. However, in committee, no Minister has fallen but Mr Staikoura. So you bring it as an emergency, and now the ministers are plundering, so that they can tell us what? When are we going to ask questions about individual articles and provisions? Mrs. Keramea is here and she's gone. But that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u42	However, you were entitled, like Mr. Katrinis, to ask me for the floor, and I would give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I do not raise a point of order or not, but a point of order. The bill is urgent, but the ministers should be here too. Why shouldn't the ministers be here? They have articles. The fact that the Ministry of Health is the expedited Ministry, due to most of the articles concerning it, does not deny that representatives of the other ministries should be here. So I close this issue and let each of us draw its conclusions. I'm coming to this. We are now in the second year of the pandemic and you are bringing in urgent procedures, gentlemen of the government, a multi-brand plan, with which you continue with the same policy that has shaped the dangerous and tragic situation of defending the health of our people, with insufficient measures, but also measures that further aggravate the lives of our people. You speak as if you are not aware of the situation, while public hospitals operate with fewer and exhausted staff, with insufficient equipment, while they can no longer respond to the enormous needs of Coronovirus patients, with dozens of intrinsic patients staying out of myths until their bed is empty, with hundreds of daily imports into public hospitals and at the same time with thousands of patients with other chronic illnesses being effectively excluded from medical examination and continued treatment. Really, tell us what's next? To die sick helpless at home? Because what you have consciously done so far, you continue to do so through the bill. You leave, in other words, unarmed public health establishments, you do not hire personnel, you do not recompense private sector units, in order to add infrastructure and personnel to all patients, you do not use thousands of self-employed doctors in a state plan to strengthen primary school - mainly - health care, strengthening health centres and hospitals, and above you are mocking the people and health services of the public sector that thousands of doctors in hospitals and primary health care in Attica will be solved with the two-six self-employed people in the public system. What we have seen is the threats to recruitment to the workers and, on the other hand, immunity to the big-timers, since the money-winners, profitable, large-scale private-sectoral units, which could help improve the situation, have a government immunity card to continue to ensure crazy profits by exploiting the misery of the public sector. And let - and I am referring in particular to Mr Kontozamanis, who was put to the committee yesterday - the task forces, ladies and gentlemen, of the Government and the Ministry of Health. The emergency is to save people's lives. And in order to do this, all available hospital beds and all the ICUs, together with their staff, need to be diagnosed right now. And these exist and are in the large private hospitals, which you refuse to check. This is necessary and realistic today, to take advantage of all health establishments, all infrastructure and all public and private health staff and self-employed. What is needed, therefore, is the immediate requisition, without compensation, of all hospitals and diagnostic centres in the private sector, in order to add ready and critical infrastructure and experienced staff to care for COVID, but also non-COVID patients. At the same time, it is necessary to immediately and without other conditions to recruit all specialist doctors and doctors to start specialisation. However, Mr Kontozamanis did not reply to the committee because, for example, you do not hire all those who have submitted or have submitted, if you wish, the previous period, or who are going to submit or submit applications for posts that have been declared. All of these, not only those who will be hired, but those who will not be hired, don't they need? We say they need it. And you all know that they all need, as well as thousands of doctors in public hospitals, as well as many thousands of nurses and hospitals and primary health care, staff who needed a lot before the pandemic, much more now with the pandemic. And we will say this again, to understand it, gentlemen of the government: we when we talk about a requisition, because Mr Contozamanis said something about confiscation - he is not here - we are talking about a real order, without compensation. There will be nothing wrong with the large private groups of health if they miss any euros! That's all they've done in the pandemic and the past few years. And precisely what tragic occurs in the public health system, and much more what is happening to patients and health workers, is the consequence of a policy and planning that is implemented over time by all governments and is based on profit and not on the use of modern objective capacities to meet people's needs. When, therefore, the design in the health system is to secure revenues on the basis of their private-sector operating criteria, which of course determine the functioning of public and private structures, these results will have. These are the consequences of the coexistence of a public and private health sector, which has depreciated and closed hospitals, health centres, left them without personnel, dismantled private health expenditures for the people's family, and at the same time created majorities in private health. This coexistence you all served: New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, PASOK etc. Of course, since all this is happening, do you come with the bill, and what do you do? Another "gift" to the pharmaceuticals because they have been beaten in the past few years by the mad figures and the crazy profits they have earned from the medicine! You come once again to another bill to make them "gifts" through clawback settings. In fact, the dangerous and criminal policy you are implementing is also the famous self-test, which is also mentioned in the bill in the first articles, which you have of course been presenting for days as a basic instrument for managing the pandemic, as you say, to normality, but also to individual responsibility and the diagnosis of the disease. In fact, your aim is, by this measure, to discharge all responsibility of the state for full planning and epidemiological recording and supervision. With the same logic, you have been dealing with pandemic for a year, with the well-known tragic results, namely, the responsibility of the workers, and the way they are protected in public transport, where they are stacked like the sardines, but also how they will escape the coronary at work, at the workplace, where the protection measures cost time and money for the bosses. Has the responsibility of the teachers and the parent not been shifted from tele-education when the schools closed, but also their function when they opened, without effective protection measures and through dispersal protocols and not management of the disease? The responsibility for health is whether or not to ensure a single bed above it, although when a respirator will be found, who will care and who will risk leaving aside, because the means are not enough. Now on the list of individual responsibility, the tests are added to the home, and even in a phase of the pandemic in the large urban centres, with hospitals in the'red' and the sanitary depleted. Therefore, instead of taking effective measures to shield the public health system with the recruitment of doctors, nurses, open up and serve new ICUs, check, as we have said, the private sector, organise with public responsibility the prevention and tracking, re-fly the ball on the platform of individual responsibility for limiting dispersal. At the same time, you are presenting self-diagnosis, along with the continuation of vaccination, as the key to the relaunch of the economy and especially to the opening-up of tourism, for which the international and domestic majorities of the industry are burned, as is the speed at which the vaccination certificate is being promoted, in order to get rid of a state and an employer from all cost-effective protection measures for workers and tourists. But, really, we ask you, as we have asked in committee, but we did not get an answer: what will a worker do with his job if he finds himself positive until he becomes a health structure recheck? Who's taking responsibility for a test that hasn't been done properly and has come up with falsely negative results? How will the mandatory home test, which, according to the government, will be applied to the education sector and other vital sectors of the economy, as they say? How will the data be collected properly, since the data will be recorded voluntarily by the user of the individual test? So here is why the people must not accept another responsibility on their backs, the responsibility for themselves to bear the burden of diagnosis and traceability, which the state is systematically renounced. Lawful demand for health, unions and other bodies for free, with state responsibility, mass repetitive controls on health structures, in schools, in large workplaces is even more pressing than ever after and the latest developments we are experiencing. We as a party, the Communist Party, stand on the side of the people, who are mobilising - and well doing - to protect their children's health and health in order to protect his rights against the repression and authoritarianism of the government, which, once again, I am passing away, we have seen him yesterday from the Ministry of Health. What were the sanitaries asking for? Receive the dismissal of the dismissal doctor who was fired by the government punishing himself. That's it. And what did you do? MAT, wood and tear gas. So this people are saying that we must not make a moratorium on this government, as SYRIZA says, or find, as SYRIZA says, the minimum political consensus - we have heard it in committee - following the 'we will be accountable after' scenario which said - I remember very well - last year in the first phase of pandemic and the proposal, respectively, in the midst of a joint Minister for Health, etc. All this if it is not a truce, even tolerant, in the policy of the Government of New Democracy, then what is it? And what are you doing? You try New Democracy and SYRIZA to put false dividing lines between you, just to confuse the world, since you are already on the same bank and you are trying to bring the concept of progress to your measures. We have heard that from the rapporteur in the new Republic. The fear of being sick and dying on the road, of working more than ten hours - as you are about to institutionalise, and without trade rights, as you are planning, the New Democracy Government is not just a decency, as the government says, 'progress or decency'. It's quite a regression, but it's a regression. Mr President, I will also ask for your tolerance, because I see that I have one more minute, because we want to refer to some of the arrangements provided for in the bill on the matter of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the GEOFYRA programme on operational loans, etc. This measure, despite the fact that it can provide temporary relief from loan costs and to self-employed or micro-enterprises, is intended to support the banking system from the risk of a new red loan bonus, while in fact it provides greater support for larger companies, with tens of millions of euros of moors, which will take the share of the state support lion. Also, the conditions laid down to monitor the course of repayment of loans following the completion of state support and the provision of a penalty for the alleged repayment of the amount received - given that the conditions of the capitalist crisis will have serious consequences for microprofessionals for a long time - will create even more difficult conditions for repayment of the loans in the future and, of course, the risk of the bankruptcies of the self-employed. What would really be a breath for microprofessionals with an annual atomic income of up to EUR 12 000 would be to delete interest and fines and to cut 30% of the capital for their debts to the banks, a request which is also included in the proposal for a law that the Communist Party has tabled for months and the Government refuses to bring to the House a debate. I'm going to report to the Ministry of Justice, the relevant article on the suspension of seizures and auctions for the main residence of natural persons up to 31-5-2021. Such suspension shall not preclude the issue of payment orders, the taking of interim measures, etc., i.e. all the necessary preparatory actions required by creditors, banks, etc., so that they may then proceed directly to auctions. In short, those who had been subject to the relevant support measures are protected as affected by the pandemic, but also under additional strict conditions, which are mentioned in the means - so that I do not abuse time - and are concerned with family income, housing, income reductions, etc. On the basis of the provisions in this regulation, the protection of the principal residence is limited to a minimum period of time. Think, gentlemen, of the government, and let everyone who hears us think, some who for various reasons, whether for undeclared income or undeclared employment relationships, unemployed people, etc., were not considered to be hurt and did not receive financial support. What about them? They're staying out. It should also be recalled that today the only protection of the main residence is through the Katseli Act, which was amended during the pandemic and for the purpose of rapid and immediate acceleration of the trial for pending applications in the direction of mass rejections. Conclusion? The summer comes a wave of mass auctions and the main home. That is why we need vigilance and preparedness from the people, workers, self-employed people, to oppose this policy and these measures which will be unfolded for the next period, but also for the issue of auctions. Now, Mr President, allow me. Articles 98 and 99 concern contract workers in the pre-contractual structures and indeed private workers of fixed-term law, who have been hired in the context of the pandemic, as it is at least mentioned, to meet the increased needs of the pandemic, as if these units had a surplus or, in any case, sufficient staff to meet the needs of these people, the privileged ones, which, in the pandemic, emerged in a more acute manner, if you like, the need not only of staff but also of infrastructure, and it was an image, Mr President, for abandonment. But what's going on here? There is a contradiction, and here we want the respective ministry to clarify it to us. In Article 99 there is talk of an extension of contracts up to 30-9-2021, and in the corresponding article and as written in the Report of the Accounting Office of the State, it is stated that this extension concerns up to 30-6-2021, only one quarter. The bill looks semester. Is this possibly the printer's demon?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u44	Mrs. Michaelidou will come and you'll ask. But close now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u45	At the same time, by the three hundred fixed-term employees, the hundred fifty, after the modulations you have all made, former and current rulers, are thrown on the road. One hundred and fifty, that is half of the three hundred, and I'm going to make a statement from the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u46	Please, Mr. Lambroulis, close. You're also Vice President and then you're going to go up to the Chair and they won't take you into consideration. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have also tabled an amendment calling for a transitional arrangement for OAS students. Here we want to cure an injustice arising from the resolution of Law 4763/2020 for these students and especially for Classes I and 2 of the High School of European School Students. We call for the amendment not to be incorporated into the new law, because when these children started the process they chose the NRAs and thus degrade their degrees. We are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Mrs Maria Athanasios will now speak from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to this piece of legislation, I should like to point out the following. The government continues its communication toys in vaccination centres, while Greeks are losing their lives in the absence of ICUs, drugs, nursing personnel. If the Government really believed in vaccination, it would have purchased vaccines outside the European Union. Austria is already doing this with the Sputnik vaccine. The course, however, of pandemic, despite the vaccination program, vindicates the Greek Solution, which had presented concrete proposals from the first moment, which would save not only the lives of the Greeks, but also the economy and society itself. Already ‘ASTRAZENECA’ officially incorporates thromboembolic events in the adverse reactions of the coronary disease vaccine. In addition, in Germany, the Government of the State of Berlin has already suspended on Tuesday the administration of the ‘ASTRAZENECA’ vaccine against COVID for all citizens under the age of sixty, following the finding of thirty cases of thrombosis. According to the German press, this directive is expected to be extended to Munich as well, and this afternoon the Land Health Ministers meet in order to decide on the next moves. Yesterday in Illion, a woman of sixty-three years died half an hour after she was vaccinated. Without prejudging the autopsy, don't all make the Greeks reasonable and legitimately suspicious? And within all this, while we have a rapid increase in cases, the government is thinking of opening up the market with a five-fold number permeated when it closed it, thereby fully justifying the Greek Solution, which had warned in time that the universal closure and the horizontal prohibition of economic and social activity would have a catastrophic effect not only on the economy but on public health. All of this shows how sloppy you managed the pandemic, while you had a year to prepare. There are no more excuses. With regard to Articles 1 and 2, by this provision, pharmacies shall have an active role in the distribution and conduct of the tests. However, we should avoid the mistake you made with the hospitals and limit their normal function and the usual flow due to the exacerbation of COVID symptoms, due to your negligence and oligopoly. Pharmacies should continue to work independently as pharmacies for citizens. At the same time, it is obvious that the unjustified conduct of tests can transform pharmacy into health bombs. How do you plan to take care to protect the citizens and staff of pharmacy sanitaryly in the event of a positive case in their pharmacy? In addition, pharmacy customers themselves are certain to react when a positive case is notified to their neighborhood pharmacy. It will be a panic, but the worst thing is that the people's confidence in their pharmacy, which meets their immediate needs, will be compromised. And how will it be dealt with in the quarantine of pharmacies, in which the pandemic will be raised? Who will meet the needs of the citizens, especially when, in many cases, a more personal relationship has been created between citizens and pharmacists? Will the EGE result also be declared? Is the reliability of the result ensured as the test is not carried out by health professionals, as they can easily be used incorrectly, but also exported unreliable results? That is why it is necessary that self-test should not be carried out in pharmacies because of wider risks to public health. In particular, the obligation to register electronically in the National Register of Patients COVID -19 of Article 1 may pose risks to the protection of personal data. It is very necessary to take all care to eliminate the risk of widespread movement of sensitive personal data. In particular, for Article 2, I would point out that an invitation to tender for the supply of COVID-19 diagnostic self-test was issued by the Government. Notice of 24 March, opening of tenders, 28 March. Since last August there have been recommendations from children for the use of self-self, not necessarily, before schools open up, to systematically monitor the spread of the virus and to take appropriate measures in a timely manner to society, the economy, the citizens and especially the children and the safe opening up of schools. But the recommendations at that time were not listened to by the people responsible. You insist that pediatricians, like other healthcare professionals, do not need to carry out tests because they are easy and simple to use. How, though, will a child or parent react if an overlapping from the nose, for example, is caused by even a small rhinorrhea? Because even the over fourteen years will ask for the parent’s help to do so. I am not talking, of course, about younger children unless you do not intend to reopen primary schools. Also, there is no logging of test results in a database. If there is no tracking and recording in real time, it is worth wondering why these tests should be carried out. In Article 4, ‘Conclusion of contracts for the implementation of the Act’, ‘Creating a network of nurses for home care services and taking samples of biological material from persons of a potential COVID -19’ is the question raised: Are these nurses to have the power to carry out tests on citizens of high age who are unable to do so on their own? As regards Article 5, reference shall be made to the administration of medicinal products other than authorised indications. This report does not contain sufficient evidence as to how harmless or not these medicines are. Unnecessarily, the words ‘unapproved indications’. It raises us reasonable questions for the purpose of the arrangement and the testing methods for patients. With regard to Article 9, ‘Supplementary Medical, Nursing and Other Auxiliaries’, in Article 28 of Law 4737/20, provision was made for the recruitment of one year of medical, nursing, other auxiliaries and all kinds of personnel, by way of derogation from the relevant provisions in military hospitals, the EHS Nursing Institute, the country's University Hospitals, the ‘Aretaire’ and ‘Aeginio’ hospitals, the Anonymous Society of Health Units, the health hospitals, the decentralised administrations to meet the needs of medical and auxiliaries operating in them. The reasonable question that is being raised is: Was not the needs not met? So big are the gaps? For thirteen months, has the government not been able to cover the health gaps permanently? Specifically, reference to all kinds of personnel is aroused by suspicions. We also have a corresponding reservation for Article 10. You have left the NSR and that is precisely what is seen in the provisions of Articles 15, 16, 19. Article 10, ‘EIO Staff Recruitment’ also refers to extensions to medical staff contracts. It has been one year and even made permanent recruitment and you continue to extend contracts, i.e. to patches. The Greek Solution is constantly paving the way for the permanent strengthening of the National Health System, so that it can provide the self-evident. We have repeated our programme tens of times in terms of strengthening primary health and you are deaf. The same applies to Articles 13-15 on the movement of ancillary staff - Article 13 - on the extension of family doctors' contracts - Article 14 - and extending the validity - Article 15 - of fixed-term work contracts for doctors to deal with emergencies due to COVID. You've done nursing and medical nomadics. You oblige them to move from prefecture to prefecture and leave health centers in God’s mercy. Leave many outpatients closed because of lack of personnel. You leave the people without treatment, not even simple care. Due to a lack of basic intellectual material needs and staff, scheduled citizens' appointments are postponed even scheduled surgery. In short, by turning hospitals into centres of a disease you are deprived of access to decent health services, fundamental to a favoured state. In Article 20, on exceptional measures to ensure the adequacy of personal protective equipment, personal hygiene and the avoidance of unfair practices, you are making us well-founded for direct assignments to ‘the other parties’. It is foreseen that any contracting authority, by way of derogation from any relevant provision of existing national public procurement legislation, may carry out procedures for the provision of emergency supplies of any appropriate individual hygiene or means of collective protection. Highly vague, photographic device for own interests. The supply of primary supplies is not an emergency, it cannot be subject to urgent legislation. It is impossible to know or not to predict the needs in terms of quality and quantity after fourteen months of pandemic. Sadly, once again, you are giving us the confidence that you are acting discriminatoryly and in order to serve your own friends. Article 21 on the importation of denatured ethyl alcohol and its free disposal for medical reasons or in the manufacture of antiseptics does not provide for the provision to ensure that the necessary control of materials is carried out in order to ensure the health of citizens of doubtful quality products. With regard to Article 22, ‘Measure of the use of beds to combat the dispersion of the COVID -19’, and Article 23, ‘Current disposal of spaces’, it is permanently the regularity of extensions, while allowing public health to remain in service for university clinics. While the conversion of the "Hupperian" Hospital of Athens to a hospital of COVID was taken care of by the commander for the safe transportation of the university surgery clinic into a safe space and without reducing the power of its beds, for the state surgery of the ESS in that hospital nothing like this happened. On the contrary, this clinic lost all its beds eventually, while the surgeons' offices remain in the sealed space of COVID. This is a high contempt for fellow doctors, because they do not actually belong to the so-called 'university elite', even though their offer is certainly equal. What are you going to do about this, Minister, now that you have received knowledge of the injustice and lack of equality that these doctors are suffering in the midst of a pandemic? Article 24: This article refers to the requisition of special hospital equipment because of the coronary. The reasonable question is why there is no adequate first-demand goods, because you need to resort to cheques, what is the reason for the need for a cheque. The answer is: 'Because it is obvious that you have slipped, you have failed to plan adequately, in time and accurately the needs. What is more, who will monitor the quantities imposed so that many hospitals, which are already having problems with the adequacy of health materials and medicines, are adequately served? This is how we risk with many future sanitary subscribings. The provisions of Articles 25 and 26 extend to 30-6-2021 the legislative provision concerning the conclusion of contracts for the use of waterways and aircraft for the purpose of conducting transits of patients, in particular covering those suffering from coronary diseases. But is the government's real intention, in the end, to make general privatisation either by sea or by air? If so, why? Why does a maritime country like ours have such tragic deficiencies in its health system, and especially in the basic benefits, health center, province and island hospitals? How will the locusts of our islands be protected? What care do you take for them? Are the closed hospitals and their disposable health centers, this support and this support, are you offering them? Finally, strengthen its primary health and structures with intellectual material and infrastructure and resources so that they can meet the basic and self-evident needs of our fellow citizens in the region. Is it possible for the Ministry of Health to be deprived of ships in its possession, whether by sea or air, to serve the serious incidents of the citizens of these areas and to risk or lose lives due to unjust state failure? Even though the state should have taken care that the Armed Forces and the Security Body had adequate equipment to be able to have them for patients too. Article 27: Prolongation of public contracts. Transparency must be guaranteed for the benefit of Greek taxpayers and not under the pretext of the coronary to enrich certain people. Article 28: The possibility of the EGE to conclude contracts for direct sample examinations to third-party private healthcare providers, diagnostic laboratories, by way of derogation from all the national public procurement provisions, shall be extended, with the criterion of the lowest price among the directly available services. It is now clear that some acquaintances - strangers are getting rich from the state corpse in the pretext of pandemic. On what criteria, though? Who is it from if they're controlled? With regard to Article 30, on the disposal of specific IF and MFN equipment, we can only ask you a year ago what you are doing to establish adequate IF units. Why do you continue to insist on half-measures in the emergency response to the situation? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There are dozens of citizens' complaints that many patients end up in beds outside the IF. As we stress in our programme, we should have at least three and a half thousand fully operational clinical ICUs, so that it is ready for the state to meet regular and extraordinary needs of the ICU, obviously assigned to the necessary qualified personnel, intensifiers, anesthetics, specialist nurses. Article 39 for the national campaign. The government continues to finance the media with public money in order to objectively present the data. No, gentlemen, government management is not exemplary, it is not even tolerable. Public opinion is different. The popular feeling is different. You're behind, gentlemen of the government. You missed. Exercise micropolitics of the old type, serving small interests and not the interest of the Greek people. Instead of hiring health personnel, you continue to give money to channels - servants of your own interests. Article 57 needs to be clarified if only business-professional loans or all loans are covered. Scientists join this? To conclude, according to the "BLOOMBERG", our country in the last month has sunk twenty positions in the management of the pandemic by the Mitsotakis Government. This was next, as last month the government's interest was one-off by the care of the high guests due to 25 March, while desperate CIVID patients were suffering for a Clinic Clinic in order not to die. Gentlemen, ask: What are the effective measures that you have taken since the beginning of the pandemic? Did you increase teleworking to 100%, where possible? Did you increase public transport routes? Did you motivate the workers, where the physical presence is required, to feel safe? Did you provide them, for example, with the safest mask or will we see days of school masks in autumn? Is the quarantine of positive cases being supervised? Because the tests are good, but there should be a check. Did you order medications other than vaccines? Do you intend to finally bring the monoclonal antibodies to the hospitals? Why don't you go to bilateral agreements with countries outside the European Union that have developed vaccines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. The reason is now the Special Rapporteur from Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading titles from yesterday's journalism: 'Koronovirus, a new black record with four thousand three hundred forty cases, with seven hundred forty and seventy forty.' This is the first time since the pandemic that breaks the barrier of the four thousand recorded cases in one day. This development takes place precisely because of the government's treatment of pandemic, a treatment that does nothing they really need, than Mera25 has been calling in for a year and outside the House. It is, however, a government that certainly does what it needs for a communication management of the pandemic against the interests, health and wellbeing of the citizens. What have we been stressing for a year? The need for a genuinely adequate number of permanent doctors. The need for genuine armour, fortification and strengthening of the public health system. The need for real mass tests. The need for the government to shield public transport, schools and workplaces, to really support workers and businesses and so many others. But what does the government do? He's allegedly carrying out a massive clandestine deception test, preferring a mass test plan, aimed only at transferring responsibility for public health from the state to the citizen. It has not advanced private clinics and not just private doctors, ladies and gentlemen. He dares to constantly issue articles of legislation with titles such as "EIO Staff Recruitment", such as Article 10 of this bill, at the same time as the actual recruitment of permanent doctors, what the state, our state, really needs, is slandered by pro-government journalists as a left-wing fantasy. He has promised for months by the mouth of Prime Minister Mitsotakis that the ESS will be rebuilt and has not even brought the bulldozers. It insists on the continued transfer of responsibility from the rulings to the rulings, from those responsible and responsible to those who are in the choices of the latter. It is investing with great warmth in the formation of public opinion and not in the treatment of pandemic. It echoes the new Greek "casinocapitalism" instead of intensive treatment units. He promises a new casino will be built for the fewers. Private cities are built in our cities. Each one of his priorities. The day before yesterday, with the four thousand forty-forty-four recorded cases, was the day that was tabled, in the first hours of the morning, in one at a time, the urgent bill, which we are voting on today, to be discussed by the legislature a few hours later. Because those who pride themselves that they did not read the memorandum, such as Mr Chrysochoidis, who is in your government, obviously judges the odds themselves and think that the bills are not to be studied seriously before they become the laws of the state. The urgent bill consists of a hundred and fourteen articles and sign it twenty - seven Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Ministers, because in such a number of government officials, the most than a hundred provisions correspond to what can be imagined. This is the fruit of the only sport in which the New Democracy, the arrogantly systemic mislegislation, the distortion of the very logic of the parliamentary procedure. As regards both the major and the real urgency, the treatment of pandemic, it legislates a hole in the water, and even two months before it announces its new plan for pandemic, the tourist 'opened and waiting for you', with the minimum possible conditions. Just like last year, with exactly the same expected results in the cigarette that never came, and the coronary, which came for good. Part of this design is also Article 111, by way of derogation from the existing rental legislation by directly conferring major or non-mainly tourist accommodation to cover exceptional public health needs linked to the treatment of the coronary. By leased directly and by way of derogation from the legislation in force, other opportunities for the government apparatus and its party are also being opened at local level, beyond tourism and the krone. The false tests under Article 2 of the bill are, as we have said, the last capital to transfer responsibility from those responsible to the citizens by those in power. Instead of genuinely mass tests, confirmed by a number of states as one of the largest weapons in dealing with the pandemic, the government is calling on the citizens to test themselves and essentially if they want to declare a positive result to the state, since no one can be forced. Here we see the climax of the communication management of the pandemic. The responsibility to undergo a test and to declare the result is transferred to the citizens, who can take the test themselves, at the same time that they are subjected to professional disincentives to declare a result - as a positive one, I mean - for large professional groups of our fellow citizens. Basically, the government closes its eye on a magic trick. Since there will be no more instances of this from the citizen itself, therefore these cases will not exist. And, apparently, they hope so will fall by magic and the apparent number of cases. Instead of preventing, diagnosing and combating cases, the government seems to be betting on the hideout of cases and calling this fraud 'a mass test plan'. Although the bill throws the ball into an upcoming joint ministerial decision on how to circulate and distribute self-diagnostic tests, the debate on pharmacy has already caused problems. When pharmacists raise concerns about the very applicability of the government plan to pharmacies, pro-government media undertake their bullying. We expect to see, of course, and to which companies will be assigned these false tests, Minister. If we judge the experience of the Greek people with the Government of New Democracy to date, that will be of great interest. We'll see what's coming. The words 'within all the relevant provisions' appear so often in the instruments of the government majority, which we have good reason to believe could be established as the election slogan 'New Democracy, by way of derogation from all the relevant provisions', because the current government is the derogation. A series of articles, such as from 4 to 7, from 9 to 15, relate to extensions of existing provisions in the context of the pandemic. No matter how necessary the measures in question are, it shall not cease to be a repetition of the measures already judged to be inadequate. The government is on the same road as a failed, rather than making massive recruitments of permanent staff, where required. We will not be further extended to the extensions of time limits that fill the bill. Whatever part or chapter of the bill, their logic is not reasonable to deal with a problem, but it is just an extension. Expansion and pretend that everything is going well. The responsibility of the Ministry of Finance was heard yesterday by Mr Stakoura. In Articles 57 to 74, the Government refers, inter alia, to a programme of support for the firms affected, because its other favourite method is euphemism. The economic disaster that the country has already suffered, and even more so the subsequent one, makes the proposed measures a sympathetic but perpetrated one. The fact that they are not aimed at resolving the problem, but in the sense that we are legislating a relevant provision, reminiscent of the government's communication handling of all aspects of the crisis. In Article 74 we see the other major urgent part of this bill, the country's further 'casing'. Conditions, conditions and procedures are specified for the exceptional transfer of an existing casino operation. In particular, it is about transporting "ELELENIKI NATION S.A." from Parnitha to another location, within the Region of Attica, with what this implies, such as how many people lose their positions because they will not be transferred to Maroussi. That's not what you're interested in, of course. Another point is the total destruction of an entire residential area, which is the Acharnes, as is customary in every corresponding case worldwide. This is another piece in a broader puzzle, that of divesting the country with an indirect or direct memorial occasion in the local predator oligarchy. It is a project to which the Tsipras government gave new breath, since it was fully aligned with the domestic power system, a project in which it is trying to overcome the Tsipra government today's New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis at impressive zeal and urgent speed. Immediately after care for the "casing" of the country against the citizens, Articles 75 to 79 of the Ministry of Justice, which reopen the process of liquidation of private property, as the seizure procedures begin, and from 1 June the auctions begin electronically, as the Government of Mr. Tsipras took care of, without any exception and special protection. The government's priorities in their clearest form in all their majesty! To sum up, this is a multi-brand plan that highlights the work of pandemic by your Government, colleagues of the Couple, to dismantle public money with unlikely direct assignments and at the same time to prove the legitimisation of the most anti-social policies, such as the liquidation of small and medium-sized property and the "causing" of the country. It is clear that we will be denounced and vote against it, as any Member who is here serving the interests and prospects of the Greek people must do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. We are entering the list of speakers. I would ask that the time be respected. They are thirty speakers and no parliamentary representative has spoken yet. Please don't exceed seven minutes. Mr. Kelles from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-project extends the duration of the absolutely necessary measures to bring the pandemic to rest, the validity of which expires, and the self-diagnostic control and free testing of every citizen is introduced. At the same time, specific support measures are being taken for those affected by the coronary. Before I refer to specific provisions, however, I would like to say some truths about the public debate and all that is heard by the Civilian Opposition Party. You say, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, and Mr Varcemene, that the government is resorting to communal artifacts and is indifferent to the number of permeated citizens, working on the pandemic. Are you serious about this? Is it possible that the Civic Opposition, the only Civic Opposition throughout Europe, should have the opposition to pandemic, as if it were only a Greek issue and not a global issue? What do you say? That New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis are to blame for the pandemic? Is it a matter of budget? Of course not! It is purely healthy and proven in this pandemic that Greece is in the first place in terms of vaccinations in proportion to the population and the last places in terms of the loss of human souls - not that it is for celebrations - throughout Europe. What do you think? That it was the New Democracy's fault for the reaction of the people's immune system to the coronary all over the world? On the other hand, Mr Tsipras takes the risk of concentrating on the whole country. There are seven hundred forty people in the hospitals in the country and six hundred and thirty two gatherings in the last fifty days, most of which you have invited or participated. Who works for the pandemic exactly? Just so we know what we're talking about. I give a part of the make news about the supply of self-tests by Siemens, because you saw that in the competition that took place thirty companies and Siemens was the only one that did not participate. We hear other things, such as because, he says, we do not go to the private sector, because private doctors do not participate. Do you not know that all Greece by decision of the Minister of Health is a healthcare region and that the state hospitals, university hospitals, military hospitals, private hospitals, private doctors and private clinics are involved? You know that. As regards the provisions of the Ministry of Health, first of all, the weapon of self-diagnosis is introduced into the battle against the coronary, free of charge through pharmacies of one test per week, which will allow citizens to protect themselves. It is well established - and rightly so - that the PCR control of the persons responsible for ranking the Armed Forces is carried out and, at the same time, the vaccination centres are operated by a six-day period of seven days, for good reasons. The validity of exceptionally critical provisions concerning measures taken to deal with the pandemic shall be extended until 30 June. In particular, we should point out that the possibility of recruiting ancillary staff, nurses and other staff is being extended, as well as the movement of personnel from local health units, the recruitment and movement of personnel to the EGE, the extension of the contracts of family doctors, the validity of fixed-term work contracts by doctors and the possibility of working private doctors in public hospitals. The possibility of affixing private clinics, therapies, the conversion of beds into MMFs or IMs, the requisition of mobile or non-integrated aerospace patients, the assignment of samples to private providers, as well as the procedures for the administration of medicinal products other than specific approved indications to coronary patients, as well as the procedure for sending medicinal products to vulnerable groups, is also extended. At the same time, the government supports the financially affected by new measures. All auctions relating to movable and immovable property of debtors shall be cancelled until 13 May and the seizures of the principal residence shall be suspended until 31 May. For borrowers, the "GEVEL 2" programme is activated with an eight-month grant of the rent. The duration of the business leases of firms suspended for as long as the suspension lasts. The ‘Cooperation’ programme is hereby extended, in particular for the tertiary sector and the 12-month tourism accommodation, by payment of insurance contributions from the State budget. The tax-free, undeclared and incomprehensible amount of aid relating to the supply of heating bodies to catering undertakings is extended. In addition, the draft law includes other provisions such as the extension of ancillary staff contracts to special bodies until 30 September and the contracts for maintenance, cleaning, etc. Finally, measures are taken ahead of the tourist season. In particular, the Minister for Tourism is given the opportunity to appoint a competent body from those who are in the General Government's Register of Bodies, in order to certify that tourism enterprises are in compliance with the CIVID Specific Protocols. Thus our tourism gains a comparative advantage over international competition, because it is supplied with certificates from a state certification body, free of charge, which is expected to ensure the unconditional acceptance of our businesses from the international tourism market. Ladies and gentlemen, as the vaccination of the population goes on, the course of the pandemic counts for our country and for the whole world. Undoubtedly, in recent years, we have been called upon to face unprecedented challenges, which occur every 100 years. Our government has made available and has every means at its disposal to minimize the human losses and the consequences of pandemic on the economy. We have managed to stand up, no matter how much some invest today in the worsening of the health crisis, so that micro-party benefits can be found. The next year, of course, will be better. The Mitsotakis Government is working, as today, uninterruptedly and intensively, to bring the country into orbit of strong growth. And it is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment the Prime Minister presents the National Development and Resilience Plan, a plan which will lead the country not only to the post-COVID era, but also to the third decade of the 21st century. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course we are voting in favour of this bill, Minister, in the hope that it will be the last extension of exceptional health measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Mr. Andreas Xanthos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question is obviously not who is with the light and who is with the dark and false knowledge, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said. The question is whether there is awareness or ignorance of reality - that is the question - and much more, of course, whether there is a devaluation of risk and a beauty of reality. This is currently working on the Greek society, which is experiencing a scary dead end, and experiences the result of a total failed management, which, despite the prolonged lockdowns, has not succeeded in controlling the spread of the virus nor in shielding the health system or supporting the real economy and society. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and that produces political responsibility. And political responsibility begins and is measured and measured. That's the truth! The government, in view of this deadlock, does not actually have an emergency plan. He's lost control at all levels, and this time primarily in health. The main reason for this is that the government - this is its structural weakness - does not believe in the public health system. This is the crucial issue. It came to power, announcing the opening of the ESS to the market, partnerships with the private sector, the creation of a vital area for insurance companies. That was your program. The pandemic has come to force you, hearings, to support to some extent the public health system, but, precisely because you do not believe it, because you have a private sector bias, it is typical of how you integrate it into this pandemic phase. What my colleague said earlier, namely that we have a single health region in the country, is obviously not the case. At the same speed, my dear colleague Christo Kella, is the public and private sectors currently in the health system? Do the same functionality have the ESS hospitals, private hospitals and military hospitals? Is that what you claim? You gave the clinical chiefs the opportunity to receive twice as much compensation as double compensation! - and, indeed, not for the incidents that will be taken care of, but as an advance on the available beds, whether or not they will be used. Are we told by these provocatively favourable regulations that you have incorporated the private sector on an equal footing in the management of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u56	You've been asking for a check since last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u57	Please. You've spoken and now you'll listen to me. So any moves of support are then made at a celebration, with half the heart, poorly, in favour of the private sector rather than in a commitment to the public health system, which is why the result is a failure. That's why the result is a failure! And what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u58	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you will now let me speak and you will reply later. You have every right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u60	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u61	Against this difficulty, therefore, communication fleeing through self-examination. As our rapporteur rightly said, you indirectly recognise that the black hole in management was inadequate epidemiological control, traceability, targeted prevention of an outbreak of over-transmission, intervention in the community. That was the black hole. Therefore, instead of taking a firm step in this part and preventing the spread of the virus into the community and the general population, you are giving this responsibility to the citizen. Instead of an upgraded presence of public health services, mobile units, EGE units, primary care, everything that, with a combination of molecular tests, mainly, rapid test, and very additionally, and to the extent that there is a guarantee of reliability, these tests that you are saying today, you say that self-tests will be the tool, the key - so you say - open the economy, tourism, education, the market, everything. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a healthly precarious option. It is a political choice, of course, bypassing the Ministry of Health artificially and its supervised bodies. We talked about this yesterday in the committee. The contest isn't made by IFET and ETA, but it's done by Civil Protection. It is a political choice, therefore, through a methodology that is absolutely insecure. The ECDC says that it can only have a complementary role through a policy and a comprehensive testing diagnostic strategy. Why do you have a negative molecular test, a PCR test, forty-eight - seventy-two hours? Here it is, then, the safe choice to open up any sector! What you are setting up for the Armed Forces to do for all the workplaces, for the world that works in factories, for the world that works in shops, for the world that will work tomorrow - the day after tomorrow in tourism, for the workers in the health system, for teachers, for everyone. That's the answer. Firstly, you do not clarify and I have serious reservations. Mr. Kontozamanis answered yesterday. I read the provisions, I estimate that the tests that will come will be without CE mark. That's what you institutionalize. Secondly, how do you institutionalise the execution and rapid test, not only self-test, in private pharmacies with the - I think - universal denial of pharmacists and their documented inability to respond to this role? Why do you put it on?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u63	How will it be mandatory to do something based on the logic of self-examination and self-control? This is a structural contradiction. This cannot be mandatory, which is based on the voluntary conduct of an examination and the voluntary submission of a diagnostic check. So it is a communication "fuss" which, unfortunately, will put the function of many things at great risk in the next period and I think you really do not weigh the critical risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u64	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u65	A word, Mr President, I would like to say - and I am ending - what we need to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u66	You've been in nine minutes. It's not right for others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u67	I am now opposed to what we have heard of disastrous opposition, of opposition that is investing in destruction and so on. We have told all tons from the outset that it is important to save human lives and to save human lives now, at the very latest, in five and ten, it takes, firstly, a minimum of political understanding. So they cannot be made at this time of polarization and division, like yesterday's process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u68	We should invite them to gatherings!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u69	And secondly, the political forces' consultation on an emergency plan agreed by the President of the Republic with the political leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Xanthos, you've been in ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u71	There are five points which I will say and which I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u72	Yes, but it's at the expense of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u73	Thirdly, emphasis on preventing dispersion and primary disease prevention. Fourthly, the strengthening of the public health system as far as possible. And today you are dismissing a doctor, an adjunct doctor, who serves in the health system five to six years and is currently contributing to the proper functioning of the "Save". You're firing him for reasons of rehearsal and vengeful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u75	Acceleration of vaccinations, access to new medicines, and apparently all available health forces in the country, support the real economy and society, and very careful de-escalation from this great difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u76	I understand that Mr. Xanthos as former Minister of Health has had a great deal of comfort, but I ask the rest of us to keep the time, because the program is not coming out. Please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Next is Mr Kegeroglu, who always keeps time. Don't worry. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will certainly have to in this most critical one - because it has always been critical - a period when there is a need for an effective policy to protect the health of citizens, with the need for a safe opening, to see how policies and rules are adapted so that we can achieve both. We believe that health protection is an undeniable priority and that decisions should be taken on the basis of scientific recommendations and on the basis of safe data. We need to see how we go ahead with the priority of strengthening the national health system of all units, from primary to hospitals, but also the structures that have more weight in this period, to look at the preparations for safe opening and, of course - more medium-term is this - preparation for the next day. Today we'll focus on the first two on the basis of the bill. And I start with the issue of dealing with pandemic on the health side. First of all, we need a substantial debate - which has not been held - on the Committee on Social Affairs and I call on you to take this step, Minister, next week to set a day when the Committee on Social Affairs will meet in consultation, of course, with its chairman, in order to discuss the adjustment of the vaccination programme. There is a need to take into account, first of all, the issue of vulnerable groups. You ages have announced how the program goes. For vulnerable groups it is not clear. The second thing we need to see is the people in the front line. What about the people in the front line? They're not the ones who are at home. They're in contact with people every day. The third is workers in the professions and services concerned with the safe opening up of the market. And, of course, fourthly, there are public officials, public persons, who are in contact with citizens on a daily basis, so that we do not see the sad phenomena being present in exceptional cases, even in the case of mayors and others. And of course, for their part, it can be regarded as a reasonable request, because a mayor with many citizens is in daily contact, but at this time all the government says is that "I see the vaccination age". So this substantial debate should be held and it would be useful if you decide on this debate today and contact the chairman of the committee, in order to do so next week. These are not just issues of the Ministry, they are not matters of the scientific committee alone. They are also themes of Parliament, which decides at the bottom of the script or comes to decide, after your suggestions, whether for opening or for closures, but for the matter of the vaccination programme it has no reason! We are the ones who legalise the decisions taken in one way or another, because they also come through the process that comes. And here, in this way, you also discredit democracy, the government is currently defaming democracy and I will explain why it discredits democracy. Because the government claims that our democracy, our parliamentary system, does not have procedures to decide transparently, with the time it takes democratically for bills and brings them in 1.20' at night, to discuss the next day! That's a defamation! It's not democracy's fault. It's the government that's late! It is being delayed, literally late, not only in terms of time, but also in terms of interest in the issues that come next day. You don't care! When the problem comes before you and it will grow, then you look like - like what to do. Last year, we told you about the value of mass tests. The value of mass tests is not only to protect the health of those who will do and their environment. It's for you to have the adequate and reliable sample to make reliable decisions. Decisions taken on a high degree of risk can be understood as having too much risk. And that is why we are ineffective, which is why we have failed in many cases. So I would ask you to prepare more, so that in time the issues will come to Parliament, there will be no such circumvention of the possibility of discussing in a short time. It's not the short time. It is because there is no time to discuss provisions and that makes things worse. So we told you about mass tests and you came a year later to say "a, you know, self-tests came out." Well, rapid tests have existed since this time as a second and alternative to molecular one! We asked you, with a timely question, Mr Minister, to prescribe for children at least. For the kids! I didn't tell you all about it. I asked you for children and the government replied negatively: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. When I asked the question, you refused. The lady's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u78	It's free.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u79	Yes, you came after a while, like now with self-tests, say we buy ten million to do it. This makes a huge difference, because when it is not done on time, the problem is growing and then the results are not gathered. Just two points, and I close, because I ate the time for the issues that have to do with the process of legislating. To say about the issue of prevention and psychological support centres. While the scientific community finds that psychosocial problems are growing in every family, in every area, in every person, you, instead of strengthening prevention and psychological support centres, are deceiving them. Give them more role! Give them the power! Assign the jobs and therefore the corresponding resources and not limit them. Secondly, I would like to say about the amendment by the Ministry of Education, which comes again with two articles and as usual the government will put them to the vote - start putting all the articles of the bills together in the bills! - that this is in breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've denounced it many times. It is unacceptable that an amendment with seventeen articles should be voted on as a single article. In the first article, therefore, which refers to the possibility of a ministerial decision to extend for one year the procedure provided for in a 2007 law on the recruitment of priests, while 'up to three times', I would like to ask that our request be forwarded to the Minister of Education to amend it and make it 'up to five times', that is to say, to have two years of scope and to see the evaluation and what to do with it. We cannot operate through annual extensions. To enter 'up to five times' in order to facilitate time measurement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u81	As to the second article, we support it. But I don't know what's gonna happen now. When we have two articles and one is problematic, and the other is positive, you tell me, Mr President, what a vote it is that will genuinely express our political will. Let's not put two articles on it, let's put two paragraphs on it, but don't make us laugh. In other words, this is totally unacceptable, in the way that is being done in the legislative and voting process. Thank you very much and apologise for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u82	I will now give Mr Stoltides the floor and then the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Skourletis, will speak. Mr Kegeroglu, what you have raised is an issue which, if you remember, has been a concern to us in the Conference of Presidents,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u83	You don't solve it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u84	................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................,...................................................................................................................,.,.........................................,.,..,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,...,.,............................,.,..............,.....,.,.,..., It is a question of practice, of tactics, which is followed in general, years whole because an article is passed, cannot be voted on. This is a matter of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u85	At the Conference you will make this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u86	This is not the way consensus is achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u87	We shall put this back to the Conference of Presidents. When the provisions are different and regulate different things, they should normally come with separate articles. Mr. Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Starting by saying that we support the workers' record at Parnitha casino. We call on the Government to respect the operational collective bargaining agreement signed and it is a product of collective bargaining and to remove from Article 74 of the bill all those provisions opening doors and windows in order to violate the terms of this agreement in favour of employers. In other words, the law should be as detailed as possible and leave no room for misinterpretation by the Presidential Decree to be adopted. In particular, Article 74(4) refers to the necessary measures to be taken by the employer so that there is no harmful change. If a worker takes it as such and cannot continue to work, he has the right to receive compensation and to leave. This must be said to leave the possibility of changes, for example, in the abolition of parts or specialties, therefore also of jobs. There must be an explicit provision guaranteeing the rights of workers, as provided for in the operational collective agreement. Otherwise, the provisions of Law 2112/2020 should be introduced, from which specific possibilities are provided for the worker in the event of unilateral harmful change and should be considered arbitrary, illegal or abusive, any changes to working conditions and, also, five-year protection should be provided not only for new jobs, but for all of them. Below we call for full and stable work for workers who are contracted to cleanliness and guard. They literally destroyed their hands, their backs, their lungs on the chemical day - night, quarantine or without, with lockdown or without, they cleaned and disinfected everything and protected the world with their work at the services, the ministries. And we say that this shameful hostage relationship should be brought to an end for workers who are now needed, especially in such circumstances. It is also necessary to extend the term of office of management bodies in view of the specific conditions for the protection of workers, but neither is it necessary to discuss the introduction of mechanisms for the holding of meetings and archiving of collective bodies, i.e. mechanisms to enhance employers' awareness of working processes in the labour movement, the possibility of interfering in the archaeological archaeological affiliations in favour of its people in the movement. We think you've got a strong answer where you tried to impose it. You continue on the other hand to serve the needs of the employer, so that its profits from the pandemic may not be lost either one franc, for wages or for insurance contributions. You are offering it a framework that wants to continue to apply, since it enables it to be flexible, rotated work, but also an effective tool for the continuous reduction of the price of the labour force. Forget, we say, the permanentization of such a situation, the unions are on fire to organize their counter-response. And not only do you pay for the hunger wages of workers, in fact with their own money from the tax, you are preparing a tens of billion euro financing plan for the investments of large business groups, which are also the ones from the taxation of the employees themselves. The number of insects - to get through to the pandemic - out of the IM has escaped. Nursing and medical staff have been tired and reached their limits because they are not sufficient to meet the increased needs in hospitals. And it's not enough that you don't insist on private clinics, you don't take steps to deal with actual over-transmissions, as they have been shown, while unions continue to send you dozens of complaints every day for workplaces where the total lack of measures is waging, making it literally criminal. With the government's responsibilities, no measures are taken. And, of course, there are others that have to do with public transport. You don't do all of this. Still, what are you doing? You have doubled the cost of private ICUs, those who say, at the expense of the insurance funds, and you are throwing the personal responsibility of recording, self-monitoring and self-detecting when, even with the money you have available for these self-tests you could hire doctors and nurses who need hospitals. You have other plans, of course, that you do not want to legitimise and shield anything from the ERC. And most unthinkable: Go ahead with persecution, such as that of the member of the Bureau of the EMI, Suli, the dismissal of the President of the Association of Workers at the hospital "Saint Savvas" or the deprivation of a wage to a specialist in "Evangelism". Why are you doing this? Because they do not deviate from the social duty assigned to them, not only as heroes who save lives with their biological reserves being broken, but also double heroes, because they say and ask for what is missing to save more. Gentlemen of government, you may give tests to the chapter, but our people know very well who is necessary to him, who is their hero, and that's why we say take your hands from the fighters of health, you're not scaring anyone. Finally, we must say that you have given too much air to the monopolistic groups. You told them that you were planning to abolish the strike and the trade union rights and freedoms and taking initiatives to implement it. And first - first - the "Hellenic CHRUSSOS". It is not enough that you gave them land and water, with the provocative renewal of the contract last week - you delivered them the indestructible wealth of our people - they continue, they do nothing. They attacked the workers, i.e. the workers to whom they owe their very existence. And the managers and the bankers and the shipowners and the industrialists why did they attack? Because the workers are asking for the self-evident. What are these? Measures to prevent them from poisoning at work, measures to get out of the pitfalls of the earth, measures to be able to stand on their feet and go to work the next day. That's what they're asking. Invoking internal procedures by employers shall not allow entry to the President and the Secretary of the Association to enter the workplace. The government bears full responsibility. Workers will not allow their freedoms and trade union rights to be curtailed. The aim of the strike, the trade union rights, the abolition of eight hours has already been condemned to the conscience of the workers. You quarrel without the hotel owner! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr Stoltides, and especially for keeping time. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Panagiotis Skourletis has the floor now. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. There is no one from the Ministry of Finance in a bill, a mini bill, whose provisions concern more than ten ministries. It's only Mr. Kontozamanis, who's obviously gone somewhere. However, I would like to begin with a provision of Rule 74 that has also been mentioned - which concerns the transfer of Parnitha's casino. Why is that urgent? What is the urgent provision, the urgent nature of this provision, which forces us to bring it here, when, in fact, the Council of State has recently judged the provision that had been passed on to SYRIZA days? It was a provision aimed at protecting jobs, but, above all, - something that was not known at the time - it has mediated an entire debate in the local communities, who refuse to see a new casino in the Dilaver Estate. Do you know where Delaveris Estate is? At Kifissia Avenue, next to the schools, in the heart of the shopping centre almost Amarousios and Kifissias, next to the courtyards of the houses. And all the mayors of the surrounding areas have made announcements and the municipal councils unanimous announcements against the installation in this area. So why would you bring this between other provisions, which are completely wrong, and others have a feasibility and a need to vote, due to the expiry of some of the extensions and others, on a number of dates? What do you want to serve? Why such a precursor for 'casino development' after all? I wish, then, that this kind of premiere you had on pandemic matters and had done a poster job, but that seems to be what you are dealing with differently. So that this provision should be withdrawn and, after speaking to the people, to the workers and to see it again. There's no reason he's in this multi-project. Today it's end March 31st. Do you remember what the Prime Minister said before Christmas? "By the end of March two million Greeks will have been vaccinated", no two million vaccinations will have been carried out, that is, they will have done the first and second doses where necessary. Why did you say that? Did you have any other data then? Why are you making this trade of hope on issues relating to life itself, the health of citizens? And we have arrived today, not only in Greece, but in Europe as a whole, for vaccination policy to have collapsed. I am not talking about how the vaccination centres are operated, where everyone goes with their date, because that is what you every time you say to us as a successful vaccination. But how successful can a vaccination that has led to such low rates of vaccination and do you see that we are going to the tourist season and we are helpless towards the pandemic? You failed! You have failed with all the meaning of the word. One year later, you "collapse" to failure of the management of the pandemic, because there was no holistic and effective plan, but measures contradictory, while you created false expectations to the public in the field of health, the economy, to traders with the "open, shut down", by the fact that in the seven hundred cases we went to hard lockdown, while in the four thousand three hundred forty cases we are reopening, but without knowing whether we will actually open. And what are we trying to do about all this when they see that the pandemic has failed? We are once again trying to take responsibility for the citizens. The new'vehicle' to put their responsibilities to the public is self-test, which is the alibi of your incompetence and inability, the alibi to avoid adopting a policy that we have noted in time, such as doing targeted tests at the workplace. Did you do an epidemiological study, a tracking of the supermarket workers, who didn't stop working for an hour? Do we know how much of the cases in these areas are? Because we hear scary numbers, but there's no one to tell us. There is now a glass and we do not know what is going on. Did you see what's going on on the Athens subway? You saw it and you didn't do anything. Did you see what happens to your three hundred "friends" buses that you brought us with leasing, which have closed windows and which the ventilation systems operate as transponders? And you're coming to tell us that it's the roads again? Again we will hear the same thing when anywhere in the world and not even here, because the total sum of those who came down to the marches for every reason - your policy came out on the streets - does it not numerically gather the number of those moving from 12.00 to 14.00 in one metro line? Or isn't it? And for all this, you have nothing to say. So you say'self-test'. What is finally being done is self-test to the responsibility of the citizens, without any attention being paid to how they will manage these and whether they will be recorded. And the positive indicator at 5.5%, when 4% is the alarm limit. We are worse in the ranking and by our neighbour Bulgaria. And I say it because it's not famous for any important health system. Also in the last few days, we have retreated twenty positions based on the "BLOOMBERG" in the positive index, while the death rates per million in Greece are a negative indicator. Are you going to tell us again about average conditions, about when the cases were thirteen a day? We're gonna play with the numbers to make fun of who? That's a huge responsibility! But that's not enough. Instead of having an effective support plan, we do not have permanent recruitment, while you are obsessed with the idea of supporting the public health system, because it is public and why you are obsessed with public allergy. And you're going to the direct assignments. Wait a minute, you guys! As far as direct awards are concerned, which have been sensible in exceptional circumstances and situations, when these exceptional situations have been in place for a year now, the concept of an emergency is being relied upon. There's a need for planning. Or are you going to tell us that in November you thought we'd be over by the end of March? Now they're saying this case will accompany us in 2022. What are you going to tell us then? Is that how we're going? By direct awards to the ‘fourths’? Can we trust you when we have seen the examples of the notorious'scole' - I say it for those who are from the Ministry of Labour - training and deception programmes? Can we trust you when you gave the aluminum makers to fix the masks, which were like hoods? Can we trust you when you were telling us that the services of 'CISCO' are free' and it turned out that we have paid them and made this immunity for the modern world, that is, to give the personal data free of charge? That's a great responsibility! That doesn't have an honor. Personal data is a matter of democracy, it is a matter of rights. Can we trust you when on 2 February here, in this Chamber, you were telling us about tablet to students, that they have gone to every student, while vouchers are being given now, where is the year ending? Aren't you liars and hypocrites? You are! So don't get any misunderstanding when we tell you. Don't get wrong! And the answer to all of this is all sorts of authoritarianism. Mr. Blonde told you before. Because Mr. Cursehas dared to talk about all this in the media, he faced dismissal. All right, well, we're spared by doctors. They're abundant and we can fire them, because they're bothering us when they're telling the truth. Why, then, is not a health agency, for example the Ministry of Health, doing so? Why the Civil Protection? There's no experience in the relevant Ministry? Now was it founded, like Civil Protection? Because there is obviously a'system' that wants to fit and which is so structured and oriented to do 'jobs'. But there are no IDs for the citizens, and even though you told us that this is a problem that has been solved...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u91	What's the dressing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u92	Easy, dear Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u93	For "SIEMENS" you told us... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u94	All right, all right, we told you. But do you dare talk after all this? I told you that you made fun of the people with the'scanners' and 'CISCO'. And you think we can trust you? Uh, no, guys, our obligation is to discover your lies and your assignments to the "logues". It's our obligation! We don't all swim in the same swimming pool, what can we do? The facts talk to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u95	Neither do we...(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u96	However, in any case, my Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you will be given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u98	So I was telling you that where there are no IDs for the citizens, it seems that the IMs and the "violated" companies will always be the companies, because the policy that you have taken so far, and on the basis of the last support package, is a dead end. The recession has reached these levels, because you have just refused to support labour and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is the logic of seeing pandemic as an opportunity to restructure, but doing the least possible, that is to say having the business really with the drop in life and without the prospect of standing on their feet when the market opens up. And that's why you left all those people abandoned. On the contrary, we see that in other areas you are going to serve a certain logic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For example, I come to the people's markets. What do supermarkets have to do on popular markets? What does it have to be a public-private partnership, PPP, the responsibility of the people's markets, where so many years the popular heart of Greece, the people's family is being fed cheaper? Why do organised chains and supermarkets have to get in there? Why are you taking the responsibility of the people's markets from the municipalities? Why? Let's go down. You tell us about growth as well for the Recovery Fund, but the Recovery Fund identified the sums in the European space eight months ago and not counting as having ridden the time and continuing. That's not good enough. These are the major problems that you will have to put at European level, rather than being a pig, to accept the most delayed logic that exists. It is also about the logic against human needs, the logic of protecting the 'father', that is, profits. You didn't say anything about that! Also, what about the case of "PITSOS", which is now leaving after so many years? You had made a deal in 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u99	Please don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Skourletis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u100	Good, then, growth, but it's growth for the few. And because it is now understood, visible, who you serve, you can be sure that what you now see in the polls, which is cursing your government's resonance, will multiply in reality. The people will turn their back on you and do it because they must be saved. This world has a sense of self-preservation. That's why he'll send you where you came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. It is now up to the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michailidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill promotes seven provisions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Article 95 extends the Competitiveness Aid Programme, of course, with a view to the development of the pandemic up to 30 June 2021. At the same time, the insurance contributions of the undertakings participating in this programme are extended. Legislative powers shall also be granted to further extend this mechanism if necessary. Articles 96 and 97 extend the coverage by the State budget of the social security contributions of workers employed in undertakings in the tertiary sector or in tourist accommodation of 12 months' duration participating in the ‘Cooperation’ programme. By Law No 4714/2020 this coverage was foreseen to last until 31 March 2021, that is to say today. Already in view of the new pandemic data, it is necessary to extend this coverage until 30 June 2021. It also gives legislative powers to extend this coverage further if necessary. Two regulations are also being put forward by means of an amendment we are tabling today. The first may be imposed in market sectors which reopen, such as the retail, food, tourism, transport, education by joint decision of the Minister for Health and the Ministers responsible, an obligation for preventive or periodic monitoring of CIVID disease. The second arrangement introduces provision for the Easter gift of workers who are suspended. In particular, in the case of workers who, during the previous quarter, had been suspended and for other periods worked normally, for the time they were suspended the Easter gift will be paid directly to the workers' accounts and for the period in which they were working will normally be paid the percentage corresponding to the gift for the days worked by their employer. Under the provisions of Articles 98 and 99, current fixed-term contracts are extended within all the privileged bodies supervised by our Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So we keep the shielding of our structures unrelentingly. I heard before the Parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation saying that our government has a public allergy. Oh, no. Not only does public allergy exist, but the public has been strengthened as ever in a pandemic year. In particular, in our own institutions, the public welfare agencies have never had so many employees in the last ten years. We have a third of our special-purpose workers because of COVID, emergency staff to doctors, nurses, caregivers, nurses, so that we can shield our structures and work for the benefit of the beneficiaries as well as for the workers in exactly the way they need them. So, precisely because we believe in public, we are promoting these two amendments, which are doing the following: One is that with the first article we extend the validity of ancillary staff contracts until there is the final recruitment and the taking up of a service by the permanent staff, which we have again run through APA. These are three hundred sixty places in all our structures throughout Greece. So we're prolonging ancillary staff contracts until there's been a final intake. Secondly, we extend for another six months these five hundred workers I have told you before, the workers who are looking after the uninterrupted and effective functioning of our structures, the five hundred workers who have increased by one third the staffing potential of our prosperous structures. For those who started in March 2020, we have secured European funding and put back the money into the state budget for the first half of the year, we have secured a third semester and now by the end of September 2021 with this article, the five hundred doctors, nurses, caregivers in the pre-native institutions with our most vulnerable fellow citizens will be there, to shield public health and the level of services we want for our structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. We are now entering the second circle of speakers, with Mr Constantine Maraveya from New Democracy first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u105	Good. They will speak two Members and then you will have the floor. Now Mr. Konstantinos Maravegias will be speaking, then Mrs. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos will speak before or after Mr. Bukokoros the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Just tell me if you want before or after Mr. Bukowo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u106	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because you have used a word, a phrase 'letter of hope', on the other hand, the New Democracy does not accept this in any way from the fact that it would solve all the problems of this country by means of a law and an article. And even more importantly, my dear Minister, because you have also referred to the doctor who ends the contract today and is a typical event, I will send you when I get off the video posted on the Internet, which provokes me - because I have personal experience with this doctor - because I just wanted to say the self-evident thing, to say my opinion democratically and nothing more. It provokes and laughs elected representative of the Greek Parliament. This is this particular doctor, this is his democratic sensitivity, and there are also suspicions that he may have sprinkled the coronary in the hospital he worked for and at the end of the time the SAD was never conducted!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u109	Mercy! Aren't you ashamed, partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u110	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u111	Shame on you! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u112	There are publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u113	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u114	Wait a minute, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u115	Don't interrupt me. Don't raise the tone of your voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u116	Shame on you! Aren't you ashamed? We're breaking the bug, then! Aren't we a little embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u117	I will continue and tell my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u118	Four thousand cases? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u119	That is exactly what this colleague has done, and that is what the doctor in question did. He was trying to fade the opposite view and the opposite voice. Anyone who moves in this way should be ashamed of trying to stop his interlocutor without letting him express his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Blonde, it may seem too much to you, but it's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u121	It's a disgrace! It's embarrassing to speak like that, a colleague and a doctor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u122	Wait a minute. I'm not done. What you're doing is forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u123	There can be no voice elevation privilege from some colleagues and others not have it. We all have the same rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u124	Please calm down, Mr. Maraveya. Why is Mr. Blondie gone? The Rules of Procedure must not be violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u125	Because he can't afford to hear such things, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u126	It wasn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u127	There are reports, Mr. Skourlet. You should inform yourself before you express yourself. You can also watch the videos and see some of the doctor's specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Maraveya, please. Everybody's judged. It's not about anyone personally. If anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u129	So we saw...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u130	Wait a minute, Mr. Maraveya. If a man, Mr. Skourletis, and Mr. Xanthos, thinks he's affected, he can appeal to the courts to insult his personality. But it's not a matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u131	No, I just want to say that it is the definition of political persecution, Mr President. It is the definition of political persecution, Mr President, that! That's it. The government is prosecuting politically, Mr President. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u132	It's your view. A formal process. There is no political persecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u133	What do you care now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u134	This is political persecution. That's why. And that happens in 2021! Political persecution from the New Democracy. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u135	Let go of that. You're not right to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u136	And you were right to have it wrong, mostly you didn't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u137	Wait a minute. You're not right to interrupt. Everyone is judged here for what it's called. Anyone who thinks it is affected, there are courts to appeal and according to criminal law, and we have the civil compensation for a breach of personality. So please calm down. Mr. Maraveya, please, with lower tone, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u138	For days then, we have seen SYRIZA, who knows neither what he says nor is interested in learning. We saw the so-called 'intangible heads' parade in the channels saying that the necessary self-test would provide us with a single company and even called it 'SIEMENS'. Finally, it turned out that the interested parties were thirty one, not one. Not only is it thirty one, but within them it is not even the ‘SIEMENS’. Did we hear any apologies or a revocation of all these ridiculous things about a standing contest? No way. Nothing at all. And that's not just a personal problem for a few dozen SYRIZA officials who have become addicted to the era when the incoherences came after each other. Today's SYRIZA supports the political line of “whatever” and does not know what it says. But he doesn't mind, because he doesn't care about scientific knowledge or about the truth. He only tries to win some momentous impressions, as did Mr. Tsipras who came out a few days ago to say that Christodoulos Xiros was arrested on his day when we all know that this was the case in New Democracy and indeed with the Minister of Civil Protection Vassilis Kikilias. Even more tragic: SYRIZA does not deal with any social problem. He has nothing to suggest at all and he is not interested. Mr Paulakis and the pandemic, when the other face of Mr Tsipras was pressed, accused of New Democracy as being the 'black marketmakers'. Of course, I understand his problem, where one can criticise it. And what criticism of the millions of free coronary tests available to all Greeks by the Government of New Democracy? Of course you cannot say anything at all. That's why you mixed up, Mr. Polakis, a little Kolokotronis, a little Velouchiotis, a little bit of everything. This is a phenomenon, if I may, of a political offense caused by your demographic despair, because that is what you have referred to. But let him look at you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of Officerial Representation, and your advance decommissioning from reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, then I want to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, all this creates a double burden in the New Democracy, as there is practically no recommendation for this bill from the Qualified Opposition. In order to fill this gap, we are therefore called upon to talk about a number of provisions of which I have to confine myself to those relating to the area of health and, in particular, the regulations on the treatment of the coronary. Conclusion of contracts for the implementation of the network of nurses for home care services. Administration of medicines other than approved indications to coronary patients by physicians. Send medicines to vulnerable groups. Recruitment of subsidiary medical and nursing staff and other auxiliary personnel to move from local health units. Ability to recruit staff from the EGE. And movements to cover all emergencies. Prolongation of contracts of family doctors, fixedterm work contracts of specialist doctors and the employment of private individuals in public hospitals to cover emergencies. Facilitate tender procedures for the purchase of health material, medicines and personal protective equipment, as well as for the acceptance of donations in favour of the ESS. The possibility of insecure and insecure patients with chronic end-stage renal failure is widened in accordance with the EEAS private sector units. Arrangements for the overtime of the EGE staff due to the increased workload brought about by the exceptional need for public health. Ensure the improper and duty-free remuneration of private doctors who will be employed in public hospitals to meet public health needs. Operation of vaccination centres seven days a week and can be managed by health visitors, midwife and assistant nurses. Finally, the provisions of the first part provide for the possibility to be made available to all Greeks by the private pharmacies for the conduct of self-tests on coronary products. Distribution with free state care to each AMKA holder or the corresponding provisional number for each week control, intended for individual use, without the need for a health professional test. As regards, Minister, the second part of the provisions relating to the Ministry of Health, I would like to focus on the regulation of matters relating to the negotiating committee and, in particular, the specialisation by means of a ministerial decision of the criteria for determining the insurance price for compensation per category of medicine, the extent to which insured persons are involved and the way in which they are covered by a category of difference between the compensation price and the retail price of the medicine. Who knows? Even for this provision we may hear from SYRIZA that it is a scandal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, yesterday, you informed us through your Chief, ladies and gentlemen, that if you come back to power again you will not know where to start and where to finish with the pre-research committees for scandals. But in the very distant past yesterday, your Chief came to blame the Mitsotakis family for leading Andreas Papandreou to the Special Court for the Koskotas scandal, rather to express his personal fears in relation to his close partner. Of course, something very important that has escaped from Mr Tsipras - who here is not doing well with mathematics, will he do well with history? - is that thirty-two years ago the party that played the key role in the referral of Andreas Papandreou was then your coalition, your political forefather. So let Mr. Tsipras also keep his own political threats 'whatever it is', unless he himself is prepared to support the referral to the Special Court of Mr. Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u141	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u142	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the study of diseases and their seriousness with scientific criteria is always carried out using the terms of'minority' and 'immunity', whether we like it or not. So when the rapporteur of the Officerial Vice-President spoke yesterday to the committee on macabre comparisons, he muddles and closes eyes, as everyone in SYRIZA, in the face of the fact that Greece has succeeded. And he managed to have just a better course in this world warp, a better course than most of the world's countries. And this Greek society has credited both to the government and Prime Minister personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u144	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u145	What do you want, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u146	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u147	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u148	How isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u149	Listen! We shall apply the Rules of Procedure. He won't talk here whoever wants to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u150	He said I was on the run.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u151	You'll hear me first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u152	He said I was on the run. Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u153	It has not given you reproach that contains abusive behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u154	Of course. He said I was on the run.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u155	Please read Article 68.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to justify the staff. Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u157	The Bureau considers that there is no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u158	First I'll justify it and then you'll judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u159	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u160	I'm asking why...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u161	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, will you come? Come on, please. Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, if you don't come, we'll move on. Mr. Bukkaro, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds. You're obligated to give him to me. You're obligated. Give me the floor. We won't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u163	There isn't. I can explain that there is no staff. The Bureau decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Bukkaro, you have to let me take the floor to justify the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u165	It's not personal for Kolokotronis and Makrigiannis to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u166	Give me the reason to justify the staff. I would have already said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, this is not the turn of speakers. I had to take the floor, not Mr. Bukkoros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u168	Will you come and talk, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u169	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u170	Come on, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u171	I'm sorry, I've come to Stepma. I can't get off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u172	Mr Athanasios, you are obliged to give me the floor on staff to justify this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u173	Read Article 68. It didn't give you reproach that contains an insult. Come on, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Athanasios, it's fascist what you're doing. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u175	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u176	Give me the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u177	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, I'm putting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, you could give him the floor for a minute to tell you about the staff! Why create tension within the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Maraveyas offended me. Do you understand me, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u180	He didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u181	I judge that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u182	He told you that you mixed Colokotronis. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u183	Dismiss it after I defend it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u184	Listen to me. He won't talk to anyone he wants. There's no personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u185	There's a good one!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u186	The Rules of Procedure say that if he insists that there is staff, I have to ask the House. There isn't. I shall now only ask the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u187	Ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u188	Ask. We're enough to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u189	No, there's no personal. Wait a minute, gentlemen! Will you tell me about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u190	Mr. President, if I say you're in the way, isn't it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u191	This 'feast' with the staff - I am not talking about you personally - should stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u192	Tell what he was talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u193	No, I won't give the floor, Mrs. Papanachius! Don't insist! The President may not give the floor if he considers that there is no staff. When is there any staff? Personally, the reproach that contains abusive manifestation individually against the MP is considered to be a personal one. There's no reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u194	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u195	Are you insisting? So let's go with the process. I ask Parliamentary Representatives, since you put it this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u196	Where does that say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u197	Read the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Brutsis, do you think there is a staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u198	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u199	Yes, sir. Mr. Skourlet, do you consider that there is?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u200	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Katrinis isn't here. I'm asking the House. Mr. Karathanasopoulos is not here. Mr. Villardo, do you consider that there is a staff as said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I cannot judge it. I was not here, but I think it is right for him to speak for the reason he has asked. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u203	Therefore, by a majority, according to the principle of declared, there is no staff. Here you go, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u204	Where is that, Mr President? Is that your article?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u205	If you keep going...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u206	Where does it say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u207	I follow the Rules of Procedure. If you keep going...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u208	What article is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u209	I don't want to call you back to class.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u210	Get me to read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u211	Give me the Rules of Procedure. I told you. It is Article 68(3) et seq. Read it and, if you're right, I'll apologize. Here you go, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I think you should have given the floor for a minute. Mr Paulakis, after he requested it, was entitled by the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to comment on the former colleague of the New Democracy, Mr Maraveya, who left the Chamber. In his position I think he fully confirmed that the dismissal today of the doctor of "Saint Savva" is political persecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, you lied and apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u214	Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u215	You lied and apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u216	I'll call you back to class...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u217	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Polakis, will you preside over?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u219	Go get in touch with the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u220	The article you said there is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u221	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u222	And it's a disgrace to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u223	You don't know what's going on with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no. You don't know what's going on with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u225	Go! Go! Go!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u226	First, don't shake my finger! Don't move my finger!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u227	You're making a mistake! I'm not swinging your finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u228	Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u229	I tell you to go and ask your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u230	The article you said doesn't exist. Apologise now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u231	No, Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u232	There's no article! You are ‘...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u233	I'll call you to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u234	I directly accuse you of being "...".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Skourletis, tell him to read Article 68.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u236	The article you said doesn't exist. Apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u237	Go, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u238	That's a decline! What you're doing is a decline!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u239	You're ungodly!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u240	Delay! And you know who's going through a decline? The ones who leave. You should know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Polakis, you're predictable and you know why? Because you have no freedom of thought, not you, but others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u242	What don't I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u243	You have no freedom of thought and you don't want to go to read. Ask Mr. Skourletis - he's here - to read the article. Here you go, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u244	Don't I have freedom of thought? You told me about an article that doesn't exist. Do you understand what I'm saying, yes or no? There's no article you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u245	You're disgusting, sir... Here you go, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, the time should have been given to Mr Polakis, he would have told the staff, and I think there would have been no such tension, which you did not contribute to extinguishing. I repeat, therefore, that my colleague, Mr Maraveyas, attacked the doctor who is being fired today, the doctor of 'Saint Savva', fully confirming that this is a political persecution, as Mr Xanthos said before. Ladies and gentlemen, we are perhaps in the darkest part of the pandemic, but unfortunately also of the major economic and social consequences after a year of beginning. Minister, Mr Kontozamanis, on 5 March, in this Chamber, when we discussed the topical question of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance for the Pandemic and Western Attica, we pointed out at that time that the country was already in the red, that the necessary measures should then be taken in support of the National Health System, the IMPs, the private sector as far as the necessary tests were concerned. Of course, then, you and the Minister of Development were in a climate that was all right, that all this was not based, and, indeed, you were again making expectations - I remind you, a month ago - of opening. So I would just like to say the facts, because these are not SYRIZA elements, even though your own Members are oppositioning the opposition. It is not evidence, therefore, of opposition. It's official evidence, yours. On March 5th, the cases were two thousand and two hundred fifteen. Today, one month later, it's four thousand three hundred forty. The deaths on March 5, talking here, with us, were thirty-two. Today is seventy-two. The tubes on March 5 were four hundred fifty ones. Today there are seven hundred forty of our fellow humans. These numbers illustrate your own lack of plan, how disfellowshipped you are, how politically you operate on the basis of communication, which now becomes your caging and trap and, above all, the obsession with your choices. Because when we were telling you about permanent recruitment to the ESS, you refused it and then you tried to find private doctors to meet the needs of imperfection. You said, "We can't waste money on the ITH and we don't need it," said Mr. Gerapetritis and Mr. Petsas, but today there are a hundred people who are anxiously waiting if they can... Minister, because I can't hear you now, you'll answer us later if you want. When we told you that all the necessary qualifications had to be made, we see the private sector not to be involved at this critical moment, to continue the same record, and like Mr Blonde and our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative, you have been told, in all this self-test case, that you are actually relocating individual responsibility to individuals, to the world, instead of taking your responsibility to do your own systematic, official, mass, free test at workplaces and wherever there are cases problems. The self-tests, as colleagues have already said, do not have the same credibility - and that is what all the scientific committees tell you not only in our country, but also in Europe - but, above all, it could be an additional element, but not your basic weapon at this very difficult time. And I wish we weren't, Minister, after twenty days, on Easter eve and tell you the same things, when you didn't do what you had to. In the economy and social affairs as well as in the bill we are discussing today. Extensions of the same measures, which have by no means been confronted with economic and social problems. In fact, the measures announced by Mr Stagioras and Mr Hatzidakis are not just a repetition. In fact, we also have a reduction in these inadequate measures taken to support small and medium-sized enterprises. You open the door to unemployment. The only younger you came to do is in proportion to the Easter gift to give a reduced Easter gift to employees not on the basis of nominal value, but on the basis of actual working hours. That's your understanding, and that's how you're going. It is clear that the situation is getting worse all the time. The consequences of the Greek people live every day. There are days now when Mr Mitsotakis presents the new grand account of the Recovery Fund and talks about two thousand new jobs. There are two issues here, of course. In the measures and the way you apply them, it is clear that you are currently constantly undermining the work, going into deregulation with the measures announced by Mr Hatzidakis. Obviously Mr Mitsotakis dreams of cheap, flexible and unprotected jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close on my time, although I believe that I am entitled to a minute more, speaking of Article 80 of the bill. Article 80 speaks of extensions in respect of the contracts of close-out clearers, until they take over the ones that have come out of the AACC notices. At the moment in this Chamber, we must point out that there is a great injustice and a great injustice. One hundred and forty cleaners of the Ministry of Finance and ASE today go on the road, ends their contract. There is still no prediction of what will happen to these women. I have to say, because I want to be fair, that a delegation from our parliamentary group, Mr Zachariadis and Mr Alexiadis, went to the clearers' gathering on Monday that passed us and went up to Mr Stavoura's office. I want to say this officially, before the House, Mr Stavuras told us that he would make an effort. We therefore expect this effort to be seen, but we also call on the Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis. We don't want to be here between Anna and Kaiafa. We need to find a solution. The SYRIZA government, because I have been a Minister for Administrative Reconstruction in recent months, has been finding solutions in such cases. And there is a solution: First of all, there must be an amendment for a three-month extension - and I really hope that Mr Stagioras and Mr Voridis will find the solution - and, in the interim, our proposal is to finally come a notice of permanent cleanliness positions for the entire public sector. That's the right thing to do, that's the right thing to do. And above all, not to get on the road today a hundred forty employees of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u247	And I thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy, and then Mr Athanasios Ljupis, also from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to self-tests so far the problem has been that SIEMENS will take over and the problem is now reduced in relation to molecular credibility tests or the fact that responsibility is transferred to the citizens? Why? Did anyone say here from Opposition and can it prove by using real evidence that ten million molecular tests could be carried out in that country weekly? Let's get serious at last. The hunting of impressions may be temporary, but in the long term it damages credibility and affects the credibility of Officer Response, which is necessary for the proper functioning of our political system. You troubled us all last week that we've brought the self-diagnosis tests to get the job, and the competition takes place with pre-contractual control, rushing thirty one companies to take part in the competition and none of the thirty-one of them is "SIEMENS". How long before this scandal? How long before this political boulevard? And, in any case, is Greece the only country to apply a wide-ranging self-diagnosis, so that pandemic can be recorded in a better manner in this third phase? Did any government officials say self-tests will limit the pandemic? Vaccines are the ones that will limit pandemic. And the vaccines are being used to the fullest extent. And we always compare with the countries of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. You cannot invoke the European obligations of the country and say that we can obtain both Sputnik and Chinese vaccines, etc. Because you also went in 2015 to buy rubles in Moscow, but "you ate a door" according to the commonly called. We are either a member of the European Union, with what is positive and negative, or we are not. In the context of the European Union, then, there is a proper administration of vaccines from our country, with a relatively faster rate than other European countries, above the European average, certainly, and we hope that things will go much better in April and May. The perfectly correct functioning of the vaccination centres, which is well-known, is due to the organization of the Ministry of Health and to the staff working there. It is not solely due to the design of the Ministry of Health or to the efforts of the staff. In order for our democracy and our homeland to function properly, we need synergies and we need each one on his side to assume his responsibilities. So let's not plunder. It's not black - it's white. You're talking about strengthening public health. As far as staff are concerned, over ten thousand recruits have been made. Has the Qualified Opposition not seen the proclamation of doctors who are declared barren constantly because there is no interest in it? One example I will tell you, since they are colleagues from Magnesia. Auxiliary staff came from the Ministry of Thessaly yesterday for ten nurses and three visitors to Volos Hospital. Not a single application was made for visitors. There was interest in nurses. Covered and covered all the time. Didn't you hear the Prime Minister two hours ago? Did you not really hear him present the programme, the reconstruction and resilience plan of EUR 57 billion plus EUR 32 billion from European funds, from which a hundred and sixty-seven major projects, actions and reforms will be implemented? Didn't you hear what he said about the health sector? Full renovation and modernisation of all health system infrastructure, establishment of assistants for our fellow citizens with special needs. Didn't you hear any of this? Didn't you hear anything about the "Didn't you hear anything about the "Didn't you hear?" programme? Two hours ago the Prime Minister said so. Billions! Personnel hired at all times. What's your review? That there's not a lot of permanent doctors hired. I told you earlier that positions are being proclaimed and many of them are being declared barren. Those not declared are covered. The same is true of subsidiary, paramedical and nursing staff. It is over, Minister, the eleven thousand - if I remember the figures - all the staff. The second field of debate for the pandemic what is it? That we did five months Lockdown and we have four thousand cases. The figures tell the truth, but they also have a relativity. Does anyone responsiblely confirm that, if these measures had not been taken in the last five months, would we have fewer or more cases? Can anyone say it seriously and confidently and not with café talk? No one can say it. I agree with everyone, and with the opposition and the media, that the measures are too tired. This is another subject, that they have been tired and how these measures have been attributed over the last five months. We've reached the third wave of pandemic really in these cases. Four thousand. Terrible numbers for Greece. But pan-European indicators show some other things, ladies and gentlemen. They show that in Europe of twenty-seven Greece is the 20th third to victims. It hurts for one life and for one victim, how much for eight thousand or more. But the numbers here, and in their relativity, are telling the truth. We are twenty-thirds in number of victims and we are twenty-seven in number of cases in Europe of twenty-seven. These are the numbers. Do the health system clinicals, the ICUs? They are certainly pressurized, since we are at the highest number of cases and hospitalizations. But did you wonder how many IDs you inherited us? Six hundred. How many runs today? About three hundred and thirty-three in the public sector and thirty-three in the private sector. I am not precise in figures, because the whole is about a thousand four hundred seventeen. It's two and a half times over. How, then, have no measures been taken? How did money not be spent? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and for one minute I ask for your tolerance, with the protection of work, because this draft law which has been introduced today and which is being debated in the form of urgency also takes too many measures for the gradual relaunch of the economy. Yes, we are before the relaunch of the economy, because the measures are now weary, but the strengths of the economy are not inexhaustible, to say that clearly. In keeping with all the health protocols, while respecting all the health measures, where necessary, we must start. You're asking about the work. The only European countries that did not record the pandemic's rise in unemployment are Greece and Italy, obviously because measures were taken. A further 2 billion is now being continued through 'SURE' to form the bridge to protection of work. It is also the suspension of the auctions for the first place until the end of May. Such measures are also being taken, as are the reopening of justice, schools and the retail trade, because the next step must be taken. Does he have a chance? Of course he's got a chance. Is there a political responsibility? The government is fully responsible for this because it is fully responsible, because it is constantly enacting measures, because it is constantly spending resources, because it provides European funds, because it supports work and entrepreneurship. Now, if some of this financial ruin caused by the pandemic awaits profits, that's a hard part and allow me the expression. What do we do with our policies? We are trying to cover as much of the damage as possible, and I think we are doing very well so far both in the employment sector and in the economy. And there was no recession where SYRIZA told us at 15%. 8.2% came the recession. Does he please us? No, we would like to see 8% growth, but is it done in a pandemic context? Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u249	Finish it, Mr. Buquoir. You've reached ten minutes. There are other colleagues here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u250	In conclusion, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance, I would like to say that the battle continues and we will win it or we will all lose it together. Anyone who tries to give little political benefits from pandemic will eventually be the great loser. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u251	Here comes Mr. Lippi Athanasios from New Democracy and I will immediately give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villardos. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is the beginning of a new era for the Greek economy. The Prime Minister and his staff presented the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, with which we will go to a brighter and more promising future. It is a titanic attempt to revive the national economy and the targeted growth of around EUR 60 billion. Today's bill lays the foundations, as far as possible, for a safer path in this direction. Domestic self-diagnostic tests, issued by today's bill free of charge to all citizens, are a very useful parameter to achieve a reduction in the rapid spread of the virus. They must be highly sensitive and specific to SARS - COV -2. European countries such as Germany, Austria, Switzerland, France, apply the free supply of such tests to their citizens. A recent published survey by Yale University showed that the weekly use of home tests for sixty days would prevent two million eight hundred thousand infections in America and about fifteen thousand seventy deaths. Today's draft law establishes the possibility of private pharmacies having home-based tests for the control of coronary illness. By the end of June each citizen with AMKA or a temporary AMKA or a temporary foreign health insurance and healthcare number will be able to receive a free home test for individual use, which does not require healthcare professionals. And, of course, this new arrangement is not panacea, Mr Xanthi, but it is coming to work in addition to the already high number of molecular and rapid test carried out daily, which have recently ranging from fifty thousand to sixty-five thousand on a daily basis. Of course, the forecasts of counter-population for a particular company, which would allegedly receive the commission of the domestic tests, were completely disproved. Finally, thirty companies, without the ‘SIEMENS’, participated in the tender, demonstrating the transparency of the procedure. The area of health, under the extremely peculiar conditions of pandemic, must be a sign of convergence with all political forces. Small-party logics don't fit in public health issues. Amongst other things, it is very important, Minister, that the provision rewarding candidates for specializing doctors who have accepted out of order to fight the coronary for a certain period of time is very important. They can, by this provision, remain and continue in the same hospital their specialty until its completion. It is absolutely necessary to restore students, students and students to lifelong education under safety conditions for all. That's why they'll be subjected to frequent coronary diagnostic tests. As the head of the Ministry of Health pointed out at the outset, the days of operation of the vaccination centres would be increased according to the adequacy of vaccines. So the days from six to seven, from Monday to Sunday and all holidays are extended. At the same time, in order for there to be adequate personnel in vaccination centres, they are now employed and IC category nurses and midwives. In the field of justice, all the framework necessary for the full and secure reopening of the courts is laid down. All procedural deadlines are set and detailed procedures for redefining cases which have been cancelled are laid down. Important and the protection of the main residence in the middle of the pandemic, with cancellation of the auctions until 13 May 2021. At the same time, the interventions in support of the Greek economy, which have been tested for a year, continue at an unsatisfactory rate. The government stands in the presence of economicly affected operators. The Greek State participates in the instalments of business loans to affected enterprises and free traders for up to eight months, with a subsidy of both capital and interest, with an obvious aim of supporting them, but also of not increasing red loans. This important initiative concerns small, very small, medium-sized enterprises, as well as natural persons who are freelance professionals or partners of personal or capital companies. The whole process is done electronically through the Single Digital Portal of Public Administration. Any interested party may submit a request to that effect by 9 May 2021. The public contribution, depending on the type of loan, can amount to up to 90% of the monthly instalment, with a maximum per company of 1,800,000 euros. One of the main conditions is that the debtor should continue to contribute with its own contribution over the entire period of implementation of the aid programme, as well as for an additional follow-up period of six to eighteen months. Also, 4,000,000 euros are granted to support amateur sports clubs. Finally, a large part of the Greek economy that has been declining because of the pandemic is tourism. In order to ensure the safe reception of tourists, a body accredited by the National Accreditation Centre for the control and certification of the implementation of the anti-krone measures by all tourist companies will be designated. Following last year's successful decision to define COVID hotels, the rental of tourist accommodation for hosting tourists will be extended to 2021. The absolute respect of health protocols in tourism is a one-way road to guarantee public health and to make our country a safe and attractive tourist destination. The permanent inclination of Officerial Representation in recent months is that it should have been suspended or even limited by the legislative work under conditions of pandemic. Now, more than ever, it is obvious that Parliament and the government had to carry on their work. Now that we are one step ahead of the activation of the National Recovery Plan, which has the dynamic of launching seven units of GDP and adding two hundred thousand new jobs, now, more than ever, it is understandable how useful and necessary - and will be in the near future - the huge reform work carried out in recent months. The government firmly and decisively laid the foundations so that the next day after the coronary will find us ready to make the most of the opportunities to be given to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u253	Thank you too, Mr Ljupe, for keeping time as always. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos. Immediately after the speech Mrs. Catherine Papanatsiou will receive from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, for giving me his position, because I have a committee and I have asked for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur of the Greek Solution referred to the bill on health matters in particular, and I will refer to his economic aspect, stressing again that the government with its foreigners and unplanned measures, especially as regards the economy, is at the same time destroying both health and the economy, particularly by means of parallel and continuous locks. In addition, it does not clearly tell the Greeks that all the measures that are being launched are with borrowing money, since the 2020 deficit was a great deal, more than 20 billion euros, or almost 15% of GDP - we once ended up in the IMF - and something similar will happen in 2025, which will be added to our long-standing unsustainable public debt and which we will pay overpricedly, with the sale of public assets, with the seizures and auctions of private property, as well as the tradition of national sovereignty - very fear - both in the sea and on land. The sale of the ports of Kavala and Alexandroupolis, as well as the profitable Egnatia Road, has already been announced, while at the same time the European Union Commissioner obliges us to build stable structures for illegal immigrants even on our islands. It does not seem to care that our country is inhabited, if that is not precisely its objective, so that the Greek society can be transformed into a easily controlled, multicultural area by its occupation forces. For example, Article 72 exempts supplies to the International Organisation for Migration to the IM. Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance is not here, which I would like to ask - as I will do every time - whether we received the 300,000, 000 advances for the Greek, registered in the first quarter of 2021, as it was in 2020, without being paid. I shall now start my speech with a completely different subject on which we have asked the Ministry of Labour a question, because it employs too many of our fellow citizens who do not give the slightest consideration in relation to the measures taken. They are OSCE's free professionals, who have been absorbed by EVA, which many of them have remained uninsured in the years of the crisis, so that they do not even have medical care, and that they are not even given the national pension, even though they have paid their contributions for many years because they have not been able to cope with them in recent years. To avoid boredom, I shall refer to the text of one of the dozens of letters sent to us, which I shall table on the Minutes, which substantiates that the government hates the middle-class and, unfortunately, small and medium-sized enterprises. In this regard, this fellow citizen writes to us, among other things, his words - I will mention - 'I am a Greek citizen, eighty years old, without pension and without medical cover, due to debts in the TEBE, but to whom I have paid for for forty-three years contributions, without having received any benefits. By 2017, I received a rent from a real estate, which was my only income, but where my rent was confiscated by tax on debts in 2017. Nevertheless, I have to declare it income and tax something that I do not receive. The bank, to which I have a rest of the housing loan, considers the rent that I'm confiscated by the tax office. So, because I'm unable to pay the monthly instalment of 350 euros, it takes my house out in the auction. So, often dense moments come that I would really like to be an immigrant in this country, because then I would get at least one allowance and have medical care. I am, however, a born Greek citizen and I am not entitled to anything." Here's his letter, which I'm tabling for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, these are the problems of the Greeks, because their governments have destroyed the country with the health system, with its overcompensation, with the memorials and with the PSI, problems that are not solved by the fragmentary and no programme of measures taken today with which Greeks and Greece are led to chaos. In the bill now, as we have seen, since an unacceptable policy of urgency continues on the part of an unacceptable government, it seems clear that pandemic is being used as a pretext for a multitude of regulations, direct awards and recruitment of our own children. The first point, however, which made us impression - and other colleagues have mentioned it - is that the transfer of Parnitha's casino to Maroussi was included in the urgent draft law, where, on the one hand, we cannot understand why it is urgent, on the other, we find that Athens is intended to be transformed into Cuba of previous times with two, with the second casino in Greek. Continuing, we are seeing a series of arrangements which are extended until 30 June 2021, as if the government were aware that the pandemic will be over then. In particular, in Article 21, which deals with antiseptics, we have often warned in the past of the need for a rational extension of their production licences, as well as the introduction of ethyl alcohol. However, we have never been heard, with the result that small extensions have been launched since then, either by PPP or by bills such as today, first in August 2020 with Law 4715 and with PPP from 10-8-2020, after December with Law 4764/2020 and today. It is therefore established that there is no proper provision made by the Government, which continues to operate in its well-known way, by'seeing and doing'. We have also called for the domestic production of ethyl alcohol, supported by the Greek Sugar Industry, which seems that the European Union has set itself to close it without any response. The same is the case with the focus, which, with Article 102, provides an extension for support for heating bodies, obviously for outdoors, but without a decision yet to open up, if they open up, whenever they are allowed, since most restaurants will go bankrupt, victims of the government's destructive policy with the continuous 'locks'. As far as the 'Cooperation' programme is concerned, in Articles 95 to 97, unemployment and consumption are concerned, instead of work and production, obviously with credit and, among other things, with the money from the Reconstruction Fund, the 'NEXT GENERATION EU', before we even collect it, and without knowing whether we will receive it and when. It is well known that the German Constitutional Court has created a problem with the Fund, as expected, from the country which certainly has no intention of participating in a joint loan. We have mentioned dozens of times that tourism is not in Greece's favour, while strengthening the primary sector just by EUR 150 million because of a coronary, when especially livestock enterprises are facing a huge problem with feedingstuffs, which have increased by about 60%, is a very big mistake. However, by supporting all our hopes for growth in tourism, when, for example, England banned travel until 30-6-2021, when pandemic is halved in Europe and when new viral mutations occur, we commit crime, crime against the Greeks. In Articles 57 to 70, which relate to the grant of loans, it is clear that the objective is to support banks for a multiplier time, those banks that have cost the Greeks over EUR 60 billion together with the deferred taxes, those banks that have "resisted" and which continue to be supported, such as the capital increase, which is being launched for Piraeus Bank through the Financial Stability Fund. On the other hand, so many conditions are put in place, for example, to reduce the turnover of more than 20%, which one cannot know how many will ultimately benefit. This also remains the issue of the service and settlement of debts which had become due over an earlier period. Will all of them be left to their luck? Are they gonna lose their fortune? Does the government expect that they will now be able to serve their debts when they could not before? Besides, what about the repayable advance? Will a part of it be spared, or will we wait until some of the people who collected it go bankrupt? As far as the checks are concerned, Article 71 is extremely peculiar. This article is extremely daunty, whereas, in view of the many conditions, it merely gives the government the opportunity to announce heavy measures, as usual, without any intention to implement them. The 40% reduction rate of cigarettes that is set as a prerequisite together with the CAR is too great, and it is wrongly taken as a criterion in the quarter of October - December, when we did not have a lockdown in October. We have repeated this many times and the government must pay attention. As far as the suspension of auctions is concerned, in Article 79, there are also many restrictions here, so few people will benefit, while the rest of our fellow citizens will stay on the road. According to reports, however, which we will submit in the minutes, 30 % of the borrowers have been removed from the "Chatelis" platform as mispaid on the basis that they were not consented to the lifting of confidentiality, despite the fact that the new law on "living" has access to the public and, where appropriate, the waiver of confidentiality for family members and the co-rapporteur may also be requested under Article 61. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, in general terms with this bill, the government is trying to regulate economic issues caused by pandemic and also health issues, which my colleague has mentioned, but which do not succeed either. In most of its regulations it extends previous, such as distance education, the supply of personal hygiene instruments, the requirement to submit a coronary test for participation in lifelong training and the payment of insurance contributions from the State to certain sectors. The other major problem of the bill is that it introduces primarily'service' provisions. For example, it leaves in place articles providing for the direct assignment of companies providing telematics platforms and companies supporting the Consumer Line. Same and the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u255	Finish it, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u256	On call for the pandemic problem, and the government shares money with those who want to do it, such as lifelong learning centres, while it does not care about the blow that all small and medium-sized enterprises have suffered, as well as the focus. Thus, however, the country is led to the cliff, with no real sense of pessimism. It's just the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Until the seat is ready and Mrs Papanatsiou comes, I will give the floor for two minutes to Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I would also ask Mr Contozamanis to be present. So, since he's away for some reason and he's out of Athensis, I'll take the floor, because I want to personally address Mr. Contozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u259	Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor now from SYRIZA. Then - because of the change that took place - Mr. Augias, the Deputy Minister of Sports, will speak first, and then Mr. Brutsis will speak. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to say a great deal of good work in the New Democracy. It is confirmed by Mr. Maraveya, my fellow citizen, that the dismissal of Doctor Curse is political persecution. Now, as far as the government is concerned, this time she went over herself. Really, it's important to go beyond your own things every time. This time, as far as the bill is concerned, you have tabled a new bill at dawn, and it has already been urgent. Whatever you say, you show us in your attitude that parliamentary procedures are bothering you. It is unacceptable to introduce, discuss and legislate, especially in the last year. Of course, you will tell me, that depends on what you're institutionalizing and what problems you're trying to face. Only as a farce can this process be understood, because - in any case - every trace of democratic and transparent legislation has been lost. We are in front of another broom bill, with provisions concerning nine different ministries. In the provisions concerning the Ministry of Finance, we have an initial question. Why do important provisions come into urgent procedure, which firstly removes the possibility of a comprehensive debate? Alongside, therefore, the need to regulate business loans in line with the “GEOFYRA” programme, provision is made for the regulation of public investment payment orders, cheque arrangements, as well as for the transfer of casino permits. We must note that the need to create a framework for business loans starts with your obsession during the pandemic to invest in loans and suspensions. These policies are the ones that have plunged the Greek economy into 8.2% recession and increased private debt. Unfortunately, the future of citizens and businesses after the pandemic and the lifting of restrictive measures will be bleak. Please keep calling for the Recovery Fund - it was invoked before and by your Member - as well as all the other European programmes to cover the huge gap that your deficit policy leaves. How long? It'll show. The Recovery Fund cannot always be in a position to cover all your resources. In this bill, while you have large limits to include as many as possible, a question arises as to the usefulness of the term, where the eligible should not have non-performing loans that have been denounced and occupy more than 50% of the total loans. So with 49% you win, 51% lose. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] In addition, they are eligible for those revenues for 2020 which have been reduced by 20% or more compared to the corresponding revenues for 2019. So with 19% you're ineligible. This after a year of restrictive measures and without serious aid, may be an inhibiting factor for the whole process. I remind you of GSEW's investigation. It records that household income based on business income decreased in 2020 by 27.2%. In this context, it is clear that citizens, especially entrepreneurs, cannot cope with their obligations. Unfortunately, your plan concerns the step of state intervention for only eight months. However, there is a lack of the bank's main factor. There is absolutely nothing anticipated. Not only is that, but you do not move in any direction of understanding and pressure towards the institutions to assume their responsibilities. For these debts, then, your only answer is this draft law. Do you have any other plan? What are you gonna do? These debts which have also been increased may and there must be regulatory measures, as provided for in the Code of Conduct of Banks, but which is not respected. What are you going to do with the repayable advance, which, despite the fact that you consider it aid, is a loan? What are you going to do with the working capital that companies will need after the much-needed opening of the market? What are you going to do with the difficulty of accessing bank borrowing? Here, the medium-sized enterprises have a problem, they have difficulty accessing bank lending. We know it from business in our region and worthwhile businesses. This needs a comprehensive plan to relaunch the economy, in the opposite direction to your logic! Finally, the day before yesterday we heard new communications about new aid measures. Today the Prime Minister said. We'll see them more thoroughly later. Mr. Bukouros told us. Our country is constantly counting victims of COVID -19, while it is still in one of the most protracted, rigorous and admittedly failed lockdowns. After a year, the economy, the public health system and society are at a borderline. The cynical assumption that one out of five deaths is happening outside the ICU and the non-demand of individuals have strengthened the sense of insecurity for all of us. Government communications on economic aid measures because of prolonged lockdown are once again one of the same: suspension of payments, transfer of instalments at the end of the programmes, suspension of contracts of employment. The new measure concerns a pro rata payment of the Easter gift compensation, which in essence means a reduction. As regards the reductions in rents and the compensation of leasers, we welcomed New Democracy in the logic of our programme and of direct payments. Nevertheless, the Minister for Finance has not made any progress for three months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, once again, the pandemic management indicators record negative developments for our country. Our country is constantly crumbling on the basis of developments in cases, mortality rates, free movement, and even vaccination. Let me remind you that on 12 January the Prime Minister said that at the end of March we would have four million doses of the vaccine. Martha finishes and closes with five hundred eighty-eight thousand two-dose vaccinations. Go ahead with the same failed recipe that plunges the economy into recession and society into despair. Unfortunately, you have lost all contact with the daily lives of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Papanatsiou. Good evening to you and me. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to personally address the Minister, Mr Kontozamanis, not because the matter is personal, but because he was present in the Chamber. In attending the debate, I heard the position of the New Democracy MEP from Magnesia. I'm not going to comment. I will go on to two questions I would like to ask you personally. First, do you accept the misery caused by Mr Maraveyas to the President of the Association of Workers of the "Saint Savva"? Secondly, Minister, will you stop the procedures for dismissing the President of the Association?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u263	Well, he said he'd answer everything at the end of the day. The Foreign Minister for Culture has the floor on sport, Mr. Augias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing about a debate and a vote on three amendments on issues that need to be urgently addressed, due to the deadlines that exist. These issues cannot be included in our bill tomorrow. As you know, tomorrow we are debating and voting here in plenary on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the new Antidopting Code of the World Organisation Antidopting. Because it is a code, we cannot include provisions on other matters within our Ministry. In other words, this is a purely legal issue. So you will allow me to table them today and vote on them today. Ladies and gentlemen, with the first amendment - Article 108 - it regulates the timing of the elections for the appointment of sports federations, in cases: first, of a sports federation in which a provisional management board is appointed, on the basis of a judicial decision or a decision of the International Federation, and, second, of a sports federation which received special athletic recognition in the year 2020. In both cases the archaeology should be carried out by 31-5-2021 at the latest. These rules apply to sporters of all levels, namely clubs, associations and federations belonging to the above categories. Why is this regulation necessary? Because today, 31 March, the legal deadline for the conduct of antiquities in sports federations expires, and most federations of course have held their elections and have normally been elected new management boards. Exceptionally, however, it is necessary to regulate the timing of the conduct of antiquities in sports federations which have provisional administrative boards appointed under a judicial decision. This is because they erroneously considered that they are not bound by the time limits set in Article 143 of Law No4714/2020, as is currently the case, so that they are no longer able to comply with the legal deadlines for the proclamation of antiquities, the drafting of electoral lists and their ratification - those lists, that is to say - by the General Secretariat of Sports. The proposed provision gives those federations the time required until 31-5-2021 to hold legal and irrevocable general meetings of antiquities and to extend the term of provisional administrations, as provided for. In addition, clubs, members of sports federations who received the sporting recognition in 2020 could, of course, not meet the third of the conditions set out in Article 14(2) of Law 2725/1999. And who's that? I should like to reply immediately, because questions are certainly raised: The condition of displaying a racing activity within the two of the previous three years. These federations cannot send to the Secretariat-General of Sports electoral lists with clubs fulfilling all three conditions of the law, thereby losing the opportunity to conduct antiquities until 31-3-2021. We are therefore giving them the opportunity to hold elections by 31-5-2021. In fact, this regulation makes it easier for the elections to be held in sports players at all levels. We clarify issues in order to avoid misinterpretations or misinterpretations and create conditions for the uninterrupted exercise of their democratic right. Paragraph 3 of that Article regulates the extension of the term of office of the Committee on Professional Sports under Article 77 of Law 2725/1999. The mandate of the ESA shall be extended until 30 June 2021. The function of the Committee on Professional Sports is related to all teams participating in professional football, basketball and pedestrian football championships. Why is the mandate of the CSR extended? As I have already officially announced here in this Chamber, we will bring in the next few weeks, that is, in the next few weeks, a draft law which also contains provisions for the ESA. It has been completed - I am simply informing you - and the consultation will shortly be discussed in the committee responsible. In the light of our forthcoming legislative initiative, which regulates the reorganisation of the Committee on Professional Sport and defines the legal framework for its duties and functions, there is a need for a short extension of the mandate of the ESA. It makes no sense to renew or appoint new members for such a short period. After all, any end to the committee's term of office at this stage and in the course of the debate that will follow in our next bill in committee and then in plenary, would create a number of problems in the smooth licensing of teams and the completion of all kinds of championships that are under way and have, of course, gone through dozens of other difficulties. Finally, the extension is considered necessary as the process of processing the dossiers for the issue of certificates under Article 77A of Law 2725/1999 has not yet been completed and this is due to the late start of the championships due to the Coronovirus pandemic. In the second amendment - Article 109 - we are dealing with the issue that has arisen from the obligation of athletes to participate in the Olympic Games or world championships, joining the Army and calling on them to serve their service. We give these athletes the opportunity to postpone. This arrangement aims to facilitate athletes who are going to participate proven in the Olympic Games or world championships in order to meet the increased requirements of their preparation. To this end, athletes shall be given a deferral until 31 December of the year of the racing, provided that their legal residence outside the Armed Forces expired last year. It is self-evident why we bring this provision. The term of office of the Armed Forces implies increased obligations. Therefore, the ranking in the Armed Forces of athletes that have been qualified in the Olympic Games or world championships would hamper uninterrupted preparation for their participation in the games and would, of course, have a negative effect on their performance. Moreover, the importance of involving athletes in sports events such as this is further demonstrated by the need for the state to take measures to facilitate their proper preparation. Finally, in the third amendment - Article 110 - it is decided to pay EUR 4 million to amateur sports clubs registered in our register, which is held by the General Secretariat of Sports. The payment of the amount is specifically for the year 2021. We are making the best possible use of our country's financial and cash margins in order to support the whole of society and the economy, but also of course the sporting family. With this provision we are further strengthening amateur sport. Amateur sport is a core of team social action. It is one of the areas most affected by the coronary pandemic. Let me remind you that with Law 4714 and Article 142, which we voted on last August, we have introduced the payment of EUR 12 million in support of amateur sports clubs that are always registered in the Sports Secretariat-General for the year 2020. It was one of the government's immediate measures to support amateur sport, which has been severely affected by the coronary pandemic. Unfortunately, the adverse effects of the coronary and sport continue to exist in 2021. Thus, we are deciding for the year 2021 to pay EUR 4 million for about eight hundred fifty unions that have been controlled, settled and not received their file, their money, as received by previous unions. With this provision, therefore, the payment to all the associations in due course which were written in our register and which will receive a total of about 13 million in total, that is, more than what we had originally announced, is being completed. I should also like to remind you here, in reply to a good colleague, that he has already come, he has been made public, as you know, and even greater support through the correct taxation of our country's legitimate betting companies. And this money will be given to both professional sport and - for the first time - amateur sport and infrastructure. It was a constant request from the sports family, and the government is being acted on by this. It is money that makes a circle and must in every way, institutionalised and organized and with absolute transparency reach amateur sport, which in fact has much more needs than professional clubs, which have other kinds of benefits and other possibilities. All three of the above provisions aim to support and strengthen sport, as well as in particular sports and sports. We are appalling the needs of sport and sport. We are giving immediate solutions and are acting as guarantors of the uninterrupted operation and of course strengthening them. In particular, for athletes, however, we give the right to the acquisition of their dreams, that is to say, to participate in the leading sporting event, at the Olympic Games. For this reason, I call on all parties and all political parties to support all three provisions, since they are directly related to issues which, in fact, must be addressed, so as not to upset the problem, because of coronary and respondents, the sporting family and sports activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u265	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Start both amateur championships and academies, because they'll tear the kids apart! The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, the most important event of the day - not only as an event, as a political news, but as something that will affect the next generations of our country - is the statement a few hours ago by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis of the National Resilience and Recovery Plan. It is the "bridge" with which it will lead Greece not only after the COVID period, but also for the third decade of the 21st century. This is a major structural change for our country, a road map of seventy specific projects, which through four pillars and many reforms will come to face in the hearts structural diseases and problems that our country had and will bring to Greece the digital transition for the state, business and citizens, the increase in employment, which is so much needed, social cohesion, which we also seek to increase business and the green economy. This is a project that covers all of Greece, each Greek and every Greek and every two thousand new jobs that will be created and seven percentage points in the growth of our country's national product over the next six years. Allow me, this is the big event of the day. At the same time, in this House today the debate on the urgent government bill is taking place, a draft law which has been very critical of the urgency of the matter, particularly on the part of SYRIZA. At this point, I would like to ask a rhetorical question to all sides of this House: first of all, what is this bill for which this most critical criticism is being carried out? Reply: This bill comes under these exceptional circumstances, so that the three ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, contribute with extraordinary legislative intervention and create a network of protection for health structures, support for the jobs of the unemployed and workers and support for enterprises through the "GEFHRA 2" programme. That's the bill. Why is he on the way to emergency? It comes exceptionally because of the pandemic, because of the operation of this House, and why we have been legislating in recent years, especially on these issues, such as health, economics and labour. This is a regular practice. Secondly, is the SYRIZA's attitude real, responsible or hypocritical, Mr Varcemene, who, as a Parliamentary spokesman, you denounced here from a step-by-step House? It is a rhetorical reference to you, since you are a parliamentary representative. The answer is that once again, unfortunately, the irresponsibility of the Officerial Responsibility is confirmed, an irresponsibility that tries to rely on and find political impulses and supports to the weakness of the world, due to this exceptional juncture of the pandemic, to the indignation of the world, because its freedom has been restricted, and to the functioning of the economy by itself with the recession it creates because of the pandemic. Is that healthy? Answer: No. And it is not healthy, because the Civic Opposition with the institutional role and the institutional burden that Parliament has should, instead of supporting its argument on these very weak points that emerge reasonably not only in Greece, but everywhere because of the pandemic, mention proposals and positions. What's he doing? Zero policy. Negatives to everything, denounced reason for everything! Question: This bill that comes today, with the extraordinary intervention of the Ministers for Health, Finance and Labour, to support workers, businesses and health structures, would you vote on it if it were in a normal process? Answer: No. Question: Why, Mr Brutsi, do you say that? I say this because very simply in other bills that came under the normal procedure you said a large 'no'. Example: Because I listened with great interest and with responsibility for labour issues, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, to talk about the issues of work, I would ask: When did we bring the bill on the abolition of HISPIA for the small islands under the normal procedure, did you vote on it? Was it the issue of the emergency legalization? By regular procedure he came! Of course you didn't vote for it! Why didn't you vote for it? Also, when we brought support through the reduction in insurance contributions to the income of two million workers - I was a Minister of Labour at that time - did you vote for it? Oh, no! You have found a pretext that we are reducing insurance contributions and you have put a number of'may','may','may', and you have not voted to increase wages as from 1 January 2021 for two million employees! When we brought this new framework for creating jobs that today has reached forty-five thousand new jobs through the "ERGANI" system of the Ministry of Labour, which finances direct and without OAS intervention, have you voted for it? You didn't vote for it! When we brought the very important European directive, 'Euratom', from the Ministry of Finance, which we had to take for 2021-2027 the so-called 'critical resources' of EUR 72 billion, of which 32 billion is the Recovery Fund, did you vote for it? You didn't vote for it! So there's more hypocrisy, gentlemen of SYRIZA. It is a pretext that the bill is in the form of urgency and that for this reason you are not voting on all these positive - indeed extraordinary - provisions because of the pandemic. However, the day before yesterday you voted for one. You did vote for the Greek bill. And what happened? "Syriza" in SYRIZA, why the half-parliamentary group and the other half-parliamentary group should vote against it. Hey, that's you! Find a political step forward, the one that is relevant to your institutional role as a Qualified Opposition and come here to the House in a serious way, to see at some point your percentages being the ones needed in a Dedicated Opposition. Because you see the image two years later and you are constantly back on all samples of social measure. It's no accident, it's your political behavior and your political function. It's your problem! But we here also want a sound political system in which we also call for a Civic Opposition which, at the end of the day, will also be tabling an essential proposal, especially this difficult period of pandemic. I have listened with interest, as always, to the position of Mr Xanthos, who is essentially the core of your position on health systems and the criticism you are putting to the government on health issues within the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous period throughout the Greek people, but also myself, questions have been raised, following the government's announcement that it is coming with an additional measure, with an additional tool, the self-test, this self-diagnosis test, which will help - that is our view - to tackle pandemic. We're not saying he's going to solve the problem, but he's going to deal with it in part through the self-diagnosis of the test done. The Civic Opposition in any way, from its own Chief to its MPs in and out of the House with tweets, Facebook interventions and announcements, said everywhere that this is a structured competition and that the self-diagnosis test - which he did not assess the benefit or otherwise - comes to a particular company, "SIEMENS". The government, as it should, seriously and responsibly did not respond and let things evolve. Did it take a lot of time? Oh, no. A few days. And when it appeared a few days before the view of the tender, it appeared that thirty-one - not one - companies applied for the tender and ‘SIEMENS’ was nowhere. In his honor only Mr Zachariadis on behalf of SYRIZA had the political courage to acknowledge that it was a failure of SYRIZA. Today, when this self-diagnosis test comes up with this legislative initiative, did someone self-criticism ask for an apology, say 'yes, we were wrong', 'yes, we really tried to lure public opinion into being a firm contest, which proved to be not so', or 'we were also misled'? Did anyone do it? Not even one! That's who you are. But you are judged by the people. And you are judged on a daily basis for your irresponsibility here and here, in this particular case, and for your diligence, since on anguish you are doing anything but you eventually fall yourself into the pit that you open, because all these things are Benghan, which you see how little they work, hours or days. That's reality. But the most impressive thing is, let me tell you, that this self-diagnosis test, which is being introduced today through the extraordinary legislation, was heard by the official lips of Mr Xanthos - I kept the phrases - was 'communication bubble, which would put public health at risk'. That's what Mr. Blonde said. SYRIZA's official voice on health. Communication bubble the self-test and at the same time put public health at risk. Well, you're changing. Where SIEMENS was, today we call it 'communication bubble'. Is that possible? Is this a serious opposition? Appreciate anything else, put forward a proposal. None of this. ‘Communication bubble’. And when, in a week or a few days' time, all Greek citizens get the right to have the self-diagnosis test, cases will be detected, they will be written on this electronic platform, what will you say then? New account. In any case, this is the case, ladies and gentlemen. We are all judged on a daily basis on what we are saying, on what we are doing and on the attitude that we have in and out of Parliament. You have constantly denounced us on matters relating to cases, pandemic and our operation. Well, is that all in Greece? Has the pandemic appeared alone in Greece? Is this the only case we've had? Only here, unfortunately, have we lost lives? All over Europe, does it not exist throughout the world? The comparative data presented by Mr. Bukoros just before and the Minister for Health show that unfortunately and fortunately at the same time in this negative juncture - there goes the "unfortunately" - Greece has the best performance compared to all of Europe. Do you ignore that? And yet we've taken measures, we're taking measures, we care for every man's health. This is unfortunately a negative juncture, which has negative effects. Compared with Greece, however, it is in a better position than the countries of the rest of Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one question: is there no self-criticism element? Six hundred thirty-two gatherings have caused with your official party activity in the last two months. Are these concentrations innocent? Can you medically prove that these did not contribute to increasing pandemic? Mr. Baroness, some elementary self-critic about these issues, won't you? Six hundred thirty two meetings with responsibility and initiative of SYRIZA in the last two months, while it's the third wave of pandemic in front of us and any self-critics? Everything is straight and innocent and only the government is responsible for what is happening? In any case, we, ladies and gentlemen, are here. With the responsibility which goes through the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the beginning of the pandemic until today, we are making every effort to tackle this difficult period for our country, for Europe and for the world as a whole. We're doing great comparatively. It's not all tied up with roses on the road we have before us. There are daily difficulties, there are failures. It makes sense in an environment which is uncharted to have failures and deficits, but in the general direction we are on the right track. And you see that this government does not only move in a one-dimensional way, to tackle pandemic. The Resistibility, Resilience and Development Fund, which I mentioned just now, comes to face and open the paths of the future, because the pandemic is here today, but tomorrow it will not be, we will defeat it, and when we defeat it, we must be ready for the next day of the country that we have before us. I would like to close with the remarks that have been made on employment and work issues by Mrs Papanatsiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u267	As soon as you can, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u268	Yes, Mr. President. Look, it is blamed and the government is indicted that it is against labour, that it undermines labour, that it undermines the labour market, that it brings unemployment. I will read you information, because here we have to speak only with evidence. So I will mention, to bring them back to the House, ELSTAT's data, unless we stopped reading her data, as SYRIZA did before 2015, which only read the INE - GSY. Today, however, he returned to four and a half years. We read only ELSTAT. This is the reliable picture of the record of unemployment and the "ERGANI" for wage earners. There's no other evidence, just these two. I read from ELSTAT: in 2017 unemployment 21.5%, in 2018 unemployment 19.3% - indeed fell - 17.3%, end of December 2020, now within the pandemic, 16.3%. This means that not only are we not against work, but especially within the pandemic, with the measures we have taken, with the support of jobs, with the support of businesses, with the repayable advance, with the 'FYROM', with the suspension of employment contracts, with the 'CONTACT' programme. In only two countries, unemployment has declined, in Greece and Italy. Are you ignoring this fact, or are you questioning it? It's a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u269	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u270	At the same time we have the wage earner's balance according to the figures of "ERGANIS" in 2019. You remember "ERGANI", my creation was in 2013. You challenged it, after you took advantage of it, because it showed positive elements, as it was the only innovative tool throughout Europe. It shows, therefore, in 2019 plus five thousand five hundred seven jobs, in 2020, in the two-month January - February - take note of January - February -, plus seven thousand five hundred forty-nine jobs and in 2021 plus twenty-nine hundred seventy-seven-one jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u271	And this is where you close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u272	These aren't celebrations. It's a record that shows that this government cares about the labour market, cares about the man, cares about the business and does everything it can to deal with the problems within the pandemic. I'm closing, Mr. President. It is the right of counterpopulation to function in the way he wants, to be placed in the way he wants. It is not her right, however, for the good of the country to have this permanent denouncing, zero-minded manner of behaviour. For her own good it would be to become more responsible, more specific, to submit a proposal where and where, so, for the eyes of the world, my child! Otherwise you will be condemned to the conscience of the Greek people, as happened in the recent national elections, to be permanent - perhaps even lower in the future - in the place of the Anti-Population of the Officer today, tomorrow, I do not know where in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. I will now give the floor to Mr Ioannis Loverdos of New Democracy, MP B2' West Athens, and then the parliamentary representative from the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the speeches of the previous speakers, because I am used to hearing and we must all listen to opposition and coalition and not just stay in the cries, the conflicts and the fighting that are taking place here. Only Mr Paulakis spoke today at the sitting of the House, as the sites say. Many Members have spoken. They've said interesting things. I have heard, for example, Mrs Papanatsiou or Mr Kegeroglou from the Change Movement say - and rightly so, in my opinion - that they do not agree with this practice of continuous amendments, the multipliers that come at the last minute in the form of urgency, etc. Let me remind you, of course, that both SYRIZA and KINAL had been followed as PASOK government and, of course, New Democracy. I'd agree with you if the seasons were normal. In normal times, when the pandemic passes, I assure you that I, too, will come and tell the government 'you are misusing this right and you are badly bringing amendments to unrelated bills'. I have written in detail on this. But we're not in normal times. I think that sometimes even MPs have not yet realised where our country and the whole planet are located. We are in the worst pandemic of all time! Of course, someone will tell me that in 1918-1920 fifty million people died. But here too, if we didn't take the measures, and if we didn't have the skills they didn't have a century ago, we would have not fifty, but 100 and 100 million. To be realistic, we spend the most difficult phase in history, at least ours. We've never lived this before, and I hope we never live it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u275	Please, please, just there, the cafeteria! My colleague's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u276	Leave them in here, Mr. President. If it's a café here, you're the café!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u277	Go on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u278	I am very respectful of the victims of the pandemic. I stand with great respect and modesty, with modesty and humility towards our society, which is suffering. You know, by coincidence, I'm succeeding in the Step that all the Magnesia MPs who spoke in turn, I suppose. I remembered when I listened to them, how much I like Pelion and how much I miss Pelion, how much I like Volos and how much I miss her, but I can't go and I won't go until the measures are lifted. I'm terribly sorry to see my son, a first-year law student, taking a class with tele-education and actually not attending from one point to the next. I'm sorry this kid hasn't gone to see what his university looks like and he hasn't been socialized. It's a shame! But he stays at home, and that's what we have to do to get through the pandemic. And that is why we must all be very serious and responsible. The government in this bill actually validates some of the provisions and decisions it has taken to deal with the pandemic in our country. In fact, it has to deal with a very difficult combination. Have you thought of what combination the government should deal with? I'm talking about every government. We are not the lucky ones to be in power at this stage. Anyone who was in power at this stage had to manage an unprecedented situation. It has, on the one hand, the great pressure on the health system, the large number of dead and intrinsic and, on the other, the pressure on society, economic, social, psychological, at all levels. This is a very difficult issue. You can't make it easy. How can you combine them both? So far, even though, as I said, I am very respectful of the victims of the pandemic, it has done relatively better than elsewhere. I say this for those who are shouting and protesting, because I believe that pandemic is not being offered for opposition. We have so many issues to oppose the Left after the pandemic. We can discuss whether Theodoros Kolokotronis was a marxist - a Leninist or what party he belonged to. It's very easy to discuss whatever you want. We can discuss, as we discussed yesterday, the issue of Nikos Pappas. These are offered for opposition. And the economy will come and be offered for opposition. Now, however, the opposition doesn't make any sense. Now it makes sense to get over the canvas, to overcome the great problem that threatens all of us. Look at how many New Democracy MPs have suffered COVID. Luckily everyone's had a good time. Some people went through harder. Look how many of our acquaintances and friends have been through COVID. Look at how many people around us have died alone, intubated into an intensive. It is very unpleasant, and that is why we must all be responsible for society and the victims of this terrible disease. We therefore need to be responsible, serious, measured and to do our job as best as we can as Parliament and as government and follow the example of our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who has shown admirable humility and modesty when approaching these issues. He doesn't move the finger to anyone. Of course, that's not true for everyone. I'm honest, and I'll say it all. I will say that mistakes have also been made from our side, from the government and from the experts of the committee. I've told another speech. The experts are not divas and are not rock star. It's good to keep quiet as possible and speak more responsibly. It's good to be careful what we're talking about. The fact that the next two weeks are critically close to making a joke on "Radio Arvyla". No one can say that anymore. It's a joke. And do not say 'open tomorrow', 'open the day', 'open the day'. I don't know when we're gonna open and what we're gonna open. This is a decision taken by the Prime Minister following the expert suggestion. Everyone else who talks irresponsibly doesn't do well. It's good to be quiet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, a friend told me earlier that in politics no one lost when he didn't say anything. When you say, you lose things that you haven't checked and you don't know well. So responsibility, modesty, humility toward our problems and to our society and we will be the winners of the pandemic. Then we will be able to discuss the opposition, for whatever you want, for the ITHs and for the economy and for Theodoros Kolokotronis and for Nikitaras on what side it belonged to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Katrinis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister a little while ago presented the project "ELLADA 2.0", which relates to the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, a project that we really all agree could change the form and model of the Greek economy and may also be the country's last chance to get away from a vicious cycle of recession and problematic management. Of course the Prime Minister spoke of public consultation of strategic axes. We are still waiting for the dialogue to take place at political parties, professional, social and scientific bodies. He talked about a project that spreads throughout Greece and concerns all Greeks. He spoke of an opportunity which is the project to spread - take note of that, because I will say it later - a wide grid of social protection. Of course, he spoke of a project covering each Greek and it is a real national project, because, as he said, Greece has been established and it concerns Greece and the Greeks. I will only table in the Minutes that there will be a great increase in imports in 2021 due to investments in construction and technology, as part of the implementation of the Recovery Fund. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, when the government itself admits that it will make good imports for the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, the Prime Minister says that this project has been established in Greece and concerns the Greeks. He also spoke of thousands of jobs, spoke of billions of euros that will fall on the market, reminding us of what the ministers said just a year ago, and which were disproved - nonetheless - in domestic production and, of course, tabled the Pissaridis report, with the well-known predictions of labour, tax and insurance issues. Surely this proposal, this draft government, creates two-speed citizens, the few and the strong, who have actually seen them get the largest amount of government aid and support - and the many small and medium-sized, farmers, workers and unemployed, who are suffice to the batters of the government's aid and choices. As far as the procedure is concerned, because it was heard before, I do not understand what the urgency of the bill is, when more than half the provisions are essentially extensions of provisions that have been voted on in the past and were known to end on 30 March. However, the Government finds an opportunity to incorporate other provisions which are not discussed, since there is obviously no room for discussion within the few hours of the procedure in plenary. We, as a Movement of Change, despite the fact that we disagree with the process, despite the fact that we have shown that we want dialogue and we are putting forward proposals, will not hesitate to support any positive provisions, especially when giving solutions and alleviating problems, because we have shown that we are putting back on the country, that we are supporting this difficult situation in society, which is being tested. Of course, we are doing this not because we believe that you are doing this right, but because, obviously, we believe that above all, the national interest is predominant and that is what we are going on here. With regard to the situation of the pandemic - because before the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said to SYRIZA, perhaps quite rightly, on a point and said 'no apologies' - the Government, in truth, has so far apologied for the measures that have failed? Has he been self-criticizing? We understand that it is difficult to admit that it has failed to manage the pandemic. But we also need to stop making this trade of hope by the ministers. You say that on May 14th, tourism will be opened. On the same date you are not sure, while you say it and say it again for tourists, whether Greek citizens will be able to make popular moves. You say that you will open up tourism on 14 May, but not even taxi drivers have been vaccinated by workers in tourism, transport. Is it gonna be on May 14th ready for the green certificate? Are you going to endure again in the blackmailing of the tour operator or are you going to do checks? What about the workers? I see and present in the Minutes a document, yesterday's announcement from the federation, which says that the workers in tourism who have no right to re-entry are free from income from August 2020 and still expect workers to sign up for their sectoral contract, which has been submitted for a long time. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the preparation you are doing for tourism and tourism workers. The citizens are tired, as they see that the restrictive measures, on the one hand, do not render and believe nothing. They're skeptical and reacting because they see that the government is improvising, because you haven't sincerely spoken to the public to this day, you haven't explained to the public why you're taking the measures you're taking, with what data you're taking the decisions. You haven't made one honest account so far. Because it turns out that the final state, ladies and gentlemen, replaces everything. The state finally makes the epidemiologist, the state finally makes the Minister of Health, the state finally decides and appreciates everything. The country we are talking about today has only one institution, and that is the ultimate state, the absolute definition of the failed state in the management of the pandemic. Of course, there is the adversarial - we have heard it before and often hear it - that we are doing better than the other countries in the management of the pandemic. I will not say about the ranking of the "BLOOMBERG" to deal with the pandemic, where all of a sudden Greece fell 20 places in the table. As far as the tests are concerned, we're still low. Cyprus shall carry out a 12-fold test in proportion to the population and Austria shall carry out nine times the number of tests. I submit the relevant table from ourworldindata.org. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The self-tests, with your well-known communication model, are being announced, and now bring the relevant provisions to practice something that you already have 15 days of advertisements. I wish this would lead to better tracking and containment of cases. But, as far as daily deaths are concerned, we are firmly first and 20% above Europe's average. I am also presenting the relevant table. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the vaccination part it is a fact that the situation has improved, at least as far as the functional part is concerned. Of course, the Prime Minister said on 12 January that two million fellow citizens will have been vaccinated at the end of March in both instalments. This number has not been confirmed. With what evidence did Mr. Mitsotakis say? Is it possible to disprove a Prime Minister so loudly? We are also in the number of vaccinations, Minister, 30% below the European Union average in a number of daily doses per 100 people. I'm filing the relevant table. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We must take an initiative at European level to change the European Union's policy from procurement to the production of vaccines. I think that the initiative should be taken immediately and that we should discuss this at the level of political parties. With regard to the ITH beds, our rapporteur, Andreas Poulas, said so. You talk about a thousand three hundred ICU beds, that you constantly create ICU beds, while in practice, beyond the donations of private individuals, who too have been late to exploit and serve, you substantially turn into ICU beds operating rooms, cardiological, heart surgery and neurosurgery units. In fact, we are asked by the provision of Article 56, where, instead of strengthening prevention centres, especially at this juncture of pressure both on children and on their families - and children are addicted to the Internet, and we all know this and other addictive behaviours - what are you doing? You are trying to get resources by offsetting and effectively checking the operation of prevention centres. Instead of urging them to take more action and strengthen them in one direction, both from the OECD and from the Ministry of Health, you 'evaluate' - within introductory terms the word - the fact that because of limitations they have some cash available to deprive them of the necessary funding for actions to be done and to be prioritised in the next period. As far as the economy is concerned, I will not say what has been said many times today, in this Chamber, that there has been this little bit of a statement for three weeks. In fact, today, the news has been overwhelmed by the forecasts of what the Minister will say this afternoon in relation to movements, with the protection measures, if the retail trade is to be opened up. This even overshadows an emblematic, as it could be, regardless of whether it has been done by the Government, a move, such as the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. What's the truth? That you have no money to give. You chose to pay off the International Monetary Fund early with 3.3 billion, depriving it of valuable resources, because the pillow is right to keep it at 30 billion. You're talking about a billion-dollar mess. Of course, the issue for us remains how this money was allocated, because there are professional groups left out of support measures and many complaints from the property owners, who have been waiting for them to be paid and late, according to what the government has said. I am tabling the survey of the Institute of Small Enterprises in GATT, which says that three out of four states that support measures are inadequate and four out of five say pessimistic about the crisis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What message are you sending? Send out the message of the release of the auctions. We know the banks and the services have been pushing you for a long time to give in. You open or plan to open the market next time and at the same time, open the auction door. And of course, in order to keep the pretext, you are bringing a provision by 31 May for those affected by the pandemic, in specific terms. Positive is that there is this provision because some of our fellow citizens will save forced execution, but from 1 June the Halos boasts for enforcement measures, for seizures and for auctions, without exception for everyone without any social and economic criterion. In addition, the implementation of the bankruptcy code, which provides for restrictions to be liquidated. I am tabling the relevant document, which, according to the president of one of the largest companies that have taken red loans over the next five years, two hundred and fifty thousand properties will be auctioned and, according to statements by him, it says that this will give impetus to the market for real estate, noting that it is wrong to measure the suspension of auctions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously you listen to your services and the banks, and that's why you bring this provision. A million properties, today we're talking about, are connected to unserved loans. So we all understand what complete release means from June 1st. One in three business loans is red. In micro-enterprises, this is more than 55% and more than 50% of all of it relates to credit contracts that have already been denounced - note this too - and 64% of the loans denounced have not been denounced, but there is more than one year behind it. I present the relevant report of the Bank of Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is what you bring the "GEOFERA" programme. As you told us this summer, there is no need for protection of first homes, since everyone will regulate their loans, so there will be no need to protect the first home. Evidently every programme of support for borrowers is positive and welcome. However, in order to be honest in this Chamber, we must see what happened with the 'GEOFERA 1' programme. First comment: they made applications for a hundred and sixty thousand loans, covering a total of EUR 14 billion of loans, when all of the loans in the country, served and not served, are EUR 205 billion. So 14 billion were covered by the 205 billion. They were mainly provided for loans, since of the thirty thousand arrangements less than 15% concerned non-performing loans and this was due to the suffocating conditions that the banks wanted to regulate, so that they could be subsidized by GEOYRA. At the same time as we are talking, over 1 million red loans have been transferred to the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u281	Slowly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u282	Yes, Mr. President, in two minutes. Observation 2: The Ministry of Finance, by its Law, of GEOFYRA 1, provided, in the special report I present in the Minutes, that 518 million euros would be used to cover 2020-21. In the 2021 budget, which I also tabled in December, a few months later, 518 million became 388, since the Ministry itself realised that at the end of the day the interest was not as strong as expected and that the rate was much less. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Turning to the relevant press releases of the Ministry of Finance, we see that in the first four months of the programme's implementation the total amount allocated is 72 million, while based on calculations of the average monthly subsidy, which will be paid for nine months, for a hundred 30 000 loans, will be a little more than half of the initial budget, and today the Minister of Finance says that with the 'GEFYRA 2' programme we will cover about 100 000 enterprises, when - I repeat - the non-performing loans are only 1 million and the two 'GEFYRA' programmes will cover the two hundred and forty thousand loan cases. This alone shows that the overall strategy you have adopted as a government does not bring results, does not enable businesses, now that the market will reopen, really have a support. Unfortunately - and I am sorry to say this - you do not have a plan to relaunch the economy and support the market, the workers, the next time, which we all believe with better strategy and better management will be able to open up the retail trade and economic activity. You also leave small, very small businesses and workers to them, literally, at God's mercy, to'regulation' - in introductory terms - through the platform of bankruptcy and extrajudicial and you are actually creating a climate of inequality, which will create terrible tensions and cause great reactions. But despite this, you are and seem to be determined to support the few and powerful - whom for the past nineteen, twenty months have consistently supported - and to allow many to swim, not in the deep waters, but in the depth of the ocean, without support, without aid and without actually mobilising you to take the appropriate measures. We will always support the most vulnerable and will certainly be the main interest in our own intervention. We believe that we should all go through this crisis on the other side of the river. No one should stay helpless. And I think that the debate helps, through the proposals we are putting forward and we call on you to adopt them, because some of them actually heal wounds and provide solutions to the serious problems facing the vast majority of entrepreneurship and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. You wanted Mr. Brutsi from 11 minutes to take him down, eighteen you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u284	Less than Mr. Brutsi I spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u285	Eighteen minutes you spoke. Here, we count it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Brutsis spoke eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u287	No, speak seventeen minutes and twenty-nine seconds, you seventeen minutes and forty-eight seconds, if you want accuracy. Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy, elected in the B3' South Athens Sector, followed by Mr. Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today, in the urgent procedure, a very important bill, with provisions which fall within the competence of at least nine ministries and hundreds of fourteen articles. It is a bill based on the provisions of the Ministry of Health for the Protection of Public Health, for the further strengthening of the National Health System, for social protection, for development, for supporting productive sectors affected by the continuing pandemic and many other issues, particularly urgent, particularly critical. Let me tell you, however, that these are not the hours of the Officerial Opposition, and much more so the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the Chief of Officerial Opposition, from the dangers of going to Scandalology and Scandalology, to go to smiles, speaking just now with the contributors. If you think, Mr SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, that is how we will be able to resolve the problems faced every day by the Greek society, the anguish and the social tension that exists, I think that this logic does not lead anywhere. And for that reason we will be judged and judged by the Greek people, because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because the New Democracy Government, with responsibility, is legislating to deal with the daily problems. Today, with this bill, we are bringing concrete measures, we are taking specific decisions to carry out a COVID test to those who are obliged to enlist with the Armed Forces for the granting of medicines to coronary patients, for the easy procedure for sending medicines to vulnerable groups and to patients in need, for the provision of facilities for qualified doctors, for the recruitment of staff to the EGE, for the extension of contracts by family doctors, for the employment of private doctors in public hospitals to deal with emergencies, for the immediate conversion of beds in beds to combat COVID. Also, for the purpose of ordering special hospital equipment, for the use of aircraft, for the conduct of aerospace patients, we are simplifying by means of provisions that currently come in this bill the procedure and the acceptance of donations. We take care of our most deprived citizens, as well as uninsured chronic renal failure patients. We are also taking special care of patients in the long term with regard to their opinions. And let me refer in particular to Article 38, where we are talking about the functioning of the vaccination centres and about their duties. At this point I would also like to talk about the Mega Vaccine Center of the Greek island, which will have twenty-four vaccination lines and a capacity for a thousand two-two vaccinations a day, which is important to the inhabitants of the southern suburbs and not just to the people of the southern suburbs. So you see that this government is walking with both a project and a vision and a target and we will overcome this pandemic and we will overcome the financial consequences of this pandemic. We solve problems on a daily basis, we resolve issues relating to specific on-the-spot inspections of medical and nursing staff with those provisions that are coming today. With these arrangements, we also set conditions to help open the Greek society safely. We regulate and continue to support and strengthen the economy consistently and seriously so that by gradually lifting the measures and gradually opening up the economic activities the professionals and branches that have been affected do not start at zero. The provisions we introduce to vote mark a gradual return to normality. And let me, because of my previous route, start talking about the provisions of the Ministry of Finance. The "GEFT 2" programme, with the public contribution for the repayment of business loans for borrowers affected by the consequences of the COVID pandemic, is being established. I have listened very carefully to the KINAL Parliamentary spokesman. He did not, however, tell us that this provision concerns over a hundred and fifty thousand natural and legal persons. So many natural and legal persons may enter GEOGRAPHY 2. He did not tell us, too, that the coverage given by the government is for eight months, which means that we cover in 2021. As far as other provisions are concerned - and I will be brief, Mr President - we are bringing arrangements for self-tests, which the SYRIZA party has attempted completely unsuccessfully to find a scandal in the process. And our Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Yiannis Vroutzis, said so, only Kostas Zachariadis had the courage, courage, courage to return and say: "Yes, we were wrong towards the Greek citizens." It's not bad to admit your mistake. However, there are important provisions in this bill concerning the incompatibilities of private doctors who will offer their services to public hospitals. The provision for the operation of the vaccination centres seven days instead of six and the possibility of the establishment of vaccination centres are important possibilities and important provisions adopted by the current bill. The provisions now coming to the Ministry of Justice are important because we have suspended all auctions for natural persons, for households, who have been financially affected by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has shown from the outset that it is a priority for the real protection of first residence, and that is what it is doing in practice, and will continue to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. With regard to the extension of the "cooperative" mechanism of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have the payment of the insurance contributions from the State budget, which is provided for in Articles 95, 96 and 97, for undertakings in the tertiary sector and for tourist accommodation. We also have the prolongation of fixed-term employment contracts for staff employed by professional bodies. We have extended the arrangements for business leases brought by the Ministry of Development and Investment. Ladies and gentlemen, our government, the staff of the ministries are fighting not only today, but for a whole year and we will continue for as long as necessary, with all the support measures, to keep the economy up, Greek businesses open. We are taking appropriate measures, but that will also be reflected in the aftermath of COVID. Today also coincides with the presentation of the national development, recovery and resilience plan, which, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, is the bridge to the post-COVID era, but also to the third decade of the first century. It is a programme of over sixty actions, involving projects, investments, reforms and having the potential to create two hundred thousand new jobs and to mobilise almost EUR 60 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I would like to say that it is a bill and it is a process that is dynamic and continuous. In Greek society, in the Greek economy, we must go ahead with many moves. I will ask the Finance Minister to set up financial information and support centres, because today citizens have choices, but they must be informed about the options, they must be informed and supported. Do you want me to tell you what choice they have? Debt arrangements that were made over 50 months of SYRIZA had no possibility. Following ‘GEFURA 1’, ‘GEFT 2’, support programmes, ESRB adequacy, repayable advances, debt settlements, Recovery Fund targeted, new loans. So you see the social vendals of the New Democracy Government are open. The measures will work. The government will succeed. The Greek society will succeed. We'll move forward. We will give written samples to all European states that we can, as we have done with employment and with support from both small and medium-sized and large enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr Spankee. You're so kind, not like some, we can't spoil you. You should know that. I would like to say my condolences to the family of Panagiotis Nestorides, a fellow journalist, whom most of you knew. He was a member of the boards of CSEM-I, the WTO and recently Vice-Chairman of SESAR. Today she left life. We were 15 years together at the "GENERIA". Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA and the beautiful Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. After the winter and glamorous Mr. Spanakis, I'm softer, more calm, and I'm going to exercise my opposition criticism. We are again called upon to legislate on provisions and, because we are being followed by Greek citizens, I want to make a reference to what today's bill contains. It contains health provisions, economy, justice, internal, education, work, development, digital governance, culture, sport, tourism. It's a regular dozen. So this is the way the National Representation is to legislate, an all-out of provisions and amendments at the last minute, one of which concerns the Ministry of Justice and the ADAP, which was distributed to us ten minutes ago. It is four o'clock and ten minutes ago the last amendment was distributed to us. I shall speak only about the amendments. I won't talk about the substance of the bill. It has developed from our side and will be developed and then. As regards the amendment by the Ministry of Education, which has two articles, I would like to say that it is a tactic that I do not understand why you are constantly following it. It is two articles, one of which we could vote on. However, as they come en bloc and in body, we obviously can't. You are forcing us to vote against it in the body, and we are not in this mood. It's a paradoxical tactic you're following as government. We say it, we say it again, and it's a matter that you have to deal with. The first provision, which the amendment brings, therefore, speaks of the unlimited renewal by the year of the priests at the minority schools in Thrace. The people hired there are imams, or they will teach the Qur'an in minority schools. Of the hundreds of seven are in the mosques, in the mosques, and the others are called to teach the Qur'an, logically consequently should have an AEI, so that they are sufficient teachers. Given that there was no such potential, there was a transitional arrangement for people with lower qualifications to teach. It cannot, however, be renewed and people with reduced formal qualifications continue to teach Muslim children in the Thrace minority. It will be interesting to do research and see how many, in the end, teachers are employed either in the mosques or in the schools and how many are slow-wages. So you realise that in these circumstances we cannot vote for this provision. And because you bring it and en bloc with the second, which concerns strengthening religious institutions in the middle of COVID, it is clear that the second follows the fate of the first. As far as the provisions of the Ministry of Justice are concerned, we must first of all say that the reopening of the courts is being promoted without special provision being made in the law or the announcement of a specific project on the part of the Ministry, or a serious measure to protect those involved in the award of justice. Of course - and I, as a lawyer, understand - that, in fact, because of the sector's failure for a year, there has been a great deal of pressure for Members to work there, even at the risk of health, but very specific measures need to be adopted. I would also like to express a question, which is not the responsibility of anyone here to answer: have judicial associations, for example, been called on to formulate this view, or is the Ministry making progress on this proposal? As far as the provisions are concerned: Article 76(11) and (12) stipulates the arrangements for the reopening of auctions and in general movable property, real estate, ships and aircraft. They are granted, it is the truth, a few short deadlines. We really do not understand in a winter society, will it be possible on 15 July, when the auctions begin, to respond to a citizen from the debtors? Do you not understand that the story of auctioning should leave society as a rocket, bring society up, in order to be able to deal with the problem, or believers of what you have chosen, clear the whole scene of zombies, as you say, you have decided to break small and medium-sized property? In addition, I have to tell you that the provisions of the right-holder article, 79, also have negative consequences for the maintenance of ownership of the auctioned real estate. The Government must promote a serious plan for the protection of debtors against enforcement procedures, particularly as regards their principal residence. On the contrary, it is fully opening up the procedures - and, in fact, immediately - without letting the pandemic itself pass, since the necessary population will not even have been vaccinated in order to achieve the wall of immunity in the summer. In addition, there would be a provision of protection, and for a sufficient period after the end of the pandemic, so that, as I said before, there would be a room for recovery. In any event, the main residence should be protected, not in the way it is done, in quite limited periods and under many conditions described in the public office article, which, in essence, do not itself preclude the protection of the residence. I am referring to Article 76, of course, that someone from the Ministry of Justice should listen to it - and I propose that: In the period of pandemic, precisely because the prefectures were in different status, the heads of the first instance chose to accept or not accept documents, whether or not the deadlines were in operation. In other words, a place-by-place procedure was created. We therefore have to deal with this problem because it produces legal uncertainty. It should be on a plenary site, all these different regulations should be recorded and on the basis of the public declaration that the deadlines should apply, so that colleagues can safely appeal. In addition, in these provisions, which were foreseen, both in criminal matters and in political matters, it was omitted in administrative matters. It is also a failure. With regard to point 15 of Article 76, cases of special status are essentially affected and the auctions can therefore proceed against them. This has to be removed from this arrangement. Finally, the inception, in essence, of the bankruptcy law, of the new provisions - they are bankrupt by natural persons - exacerbates the already intense climate to an exceptional extent. For all these reasons you realise that in our individual criticism we are very well documented and we will vote against these amendments in the individual articles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Mr. Ciara will be here shortly. I will now give the floor to Mr. Zachariadis and then to Mr. Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece, so we will close the circle of speakers in a natural presence. Slowly, then, prepare the web-based colleagues. So Mr. Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA, who is elected to the 2nd North Athens branch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that in the last few days, because of a statement I have made, I have my honour. I was quoted here by Mr. Brutsis, Mr. Spanakis, in four, five statements made by Mrs. Peloni. I made a statement. I did not say what I would like to say, as I would like to say, but, in any case, it remained that way. But I can also go to the House's Step and give a radio interview and say that I was wrong. You, however, rule with the mistakes or the right of the Opposition. You make statements and make a political confrontation with statements that are correct or wrong by the Members of this House. And if the role of the government is to oppose the opposition, the real question is, in this country, who governs the ruler. Because I understand from the facts that either I make right statements or I do not - and I refer to my own - you are not politicians who are governing you are commentators. Unfortunately, Mr Contozamanis, every time we are - and we are a year and a month now, it is not that we were in the pandemic situation yesterday - things are worse. Four thousand three hundred forty cases, seven hundred forty, one intubated, seventy two dead. A year and a month later, you managed to surprise yourself and be unprepared. In the same city, in Athens, who die of incomplete care outside the ITH, there are ITH beds. In the same town, this thing is happening! Leave what SYRIZA says - Progressive Alliance, the other opposition parties. What did Mr. Mosaic say a year ago? It is not SYRIZA, Mr Mosilos, who said: joint surveillance of the ESS, the private sector, the military hospitals. Do you know how different the situation in the country would be if you did this a year ago? Even now, you haven't done what you have to. I see on Twitter you are picking up Tsipras' statements, and Mr Spankis here said so. But we've closed this country with two hundred at the ICU and six hundred cases, and now, you say, let's go open it. Are we looking for a ceiling ceiling to open it? Have we misunderstood? Biology we've studied. And, he says, with the self-tests we can open. Do you, Mr. Kontozamanis, actually have a real picture of the spread of the pandemic in the country? The European Agency, the ECDC, says: A lot of rapid, a lot of molecular and complementary speed test. What are you doing? You say the speed test solves the situation. But it's not like that. Don't you know, Minister, that many of the speed tests give falsely negative asymptomatics? Do you know what that means in practice? It means that people who will be asymptomatic, will be reassured that they are fine, incubate and disperse the disease. Have you really calculated that risk? SYRIZA doesn't say that, the global scientific community says so. Also, these are the great test you want to bring. Take the floor and tell us, will they have European certification, will they have CEs, yes or no? It's a very simple thing to do. Tell me something else, Mr. Contozamani, since you're at the Department of Health. Why does the contest not be made by the Ministry of Health or by a supervised body responsible for pandemic surveillance, and does the Civil Protection and the Ministry of Citizen Protection do so?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u293	Is that what you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u294	Yeah, I mind, and I need you to answer that. I mind having seventy-two dead, four and a half thousand cases and seven hundred pierced. That is what I do mind, and I have been trying to contribute for a year and with positive proposals and with consensus and conflict, so that we do not have this situation. And the question is not what's wrong with me, Mr. Contozamani, but what's going on outside. That's what I've been trying to explain for over a year. And tell me here, Mr. Contozamani, when you came in every week...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u295	You've prejudicialized the results.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u296	I, Mr Contozamanis, and Mr Xanthos and all of us are the ones who came to Parliament and said no political confrontation in the first wave of the pandemic, and we support the government's measures. And when you started making political management, that you are Moses, we started to criticize you. But now, Mr Contozamanis, you have failed, now that you have made a mess of it, now that you are undermining public health, do you think that Accurate Opposition or any kind of Opposition or the scientific community will not react? So, do we not have a democratic responsibility to react to what is happening in the country a year and a month after the pandemic's outbreak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u297	You know the results...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u298	Will you tell us something about the "BLOOMBERG" table? Is the ‘BLOOMBERG’ table indifferent? Is the "BLOOMBERG" painting? And you and Mr. Kikilis and Mr. Brutsis and the Prime Minister have gone up here on the Step by showing Europe cataclysts and Greece green. We used to talk about it when things were like that. So now that 13 months later we're falling apart, why don't you take this paper out and show it to the Greek people and testify to it in the Minutes? I'll tell you why you don't. Because you don't have the political depth to apologize, you can never say you were wrong. This government is only about 'hové' responsibilities it always finds others. Mrs Merkel, in your own political family, apologized twice to the Germans. You never! You're the only ones who relyed on vaccination. How many people today have, Mr. Contozamanis, total immunity? The Prime Minister said at the end of March it would be two million. How many today have full immunity? You're planning badly, so we're in this situation today. What do we have to do, even now? More teleworking, more public transport, more targeted tests, molecular and rapid test and additionally the speed test for the gradual opening. Our tongue's hairy. Listen to us, listen to the scientists, listen to the common sense, stop behaving in arrogant manner, stop "exploiting" stop the communication management of a communal drama. I come to a second point, which I want to make briefly. The day before yesterday, with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Alexiadis we visited the Ministry of Finance on the issue of forty cleaners. Mr. Stagiras said he would investigate it and that he must consult with Mr. Voridis. From this Step I call on Mr. Voridis, Mr. Stavoura, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Gerapitritos to find a solution to the issue of the hundreds of forty cleaners. We cannot applaud health and nurses, we cannot bow to cleaners and in the pandemic of a hundred forty cleaners to lose their jobs. Here we are, with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, with Mr Alexiadis, and we want to find a solution. We're not oppositioning you for the opposition. Finally, the article on the transfer of the casino from Parnitha. We're in favour of transferring the casino from Parnitha. SYRIZA's government took all the steps of the transfer. But it comes in a bill that is urgent, in a bill that is for the pandemic. What urgency does it have to discuss this article? You should normally bring legislation, we should have the time to talk and talk, because it is an issue that needs to be discussed with local bodies, with local society, with the self-government of all shades. I live in Maroussi. I see reactions from both conservatives and progressives and more moderate than anyone else. This procedure of express lawmaking that you have chosen for an unrelated topic for a year, to stick it to the pandemic, is a bad practice. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr Zachariadis. Christos Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece, MP B3' South Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u300	Mr Zachariadis has now seen the reactions of the people in Maroussi. When he decided as a government of SYRIZA to accept the company's proposal to download the casino from Parnitha to Maroussi, then he didn't see any reactions. But I'll see you later. Gentlemen, the Greek people live very critical days and hours. The pandemic scans. More than eight thousand dead so far, more than a hundred thirty tubed yesterday out of intensive care units. We had four thousand three hundred forty cases yesterday. The concern, anxiety and fear of workers and the people are growing. The responsibility lies solely with the government, because it refuses to take those measures that will save lives, which will support adequate workers and bio-populists from the consequences of the pandemic. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the JRC has tabled concrete proposals for immediate measures to defend the health, life and rights of workers and the people. The government made the choice to support the functioning of the capitalist economy, which the consequences are tragic for the majority of our people. Decides a permanent lockdown instead of taking those measures that allow safe operation of activities. As a JRC, it is crucial for people's lives to shield the public health system by direct recruitment of doctors, nurses, with logistics, so that no one can stay without oxygen. You should move here and now on to the requisition of large private hospitals, so that there is no other world that is intubated outside the ICU, so that people do not die that lack the necessary treatments, early diagnosis, medical care for other diseases, since public hospitals have turned into hospitals only COVID. While public hospitals have sealed and incomplete health personnel have exceeded their limits, you buzz health entrepreneurs with money, buying expensive health services. They trim their hands, because those of the people need other health services than COVID resort to private health, selling what they do not have. It is a criminal offence to deny the requisition of large private clinics, without any remuneration. You'll stay in history, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Contozamani. You will remain in history as patrons of modern black and white-rooted, health businessmen, who continue to treasure on life, upon the pain of thousands of people, as others have squandered with the hunger of the people in the Occupation. One hundred and thirty tubed out of the ICU yesterday and how many others in the previous period, which many deaths could have been prevented! It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace! Gentlemen of the government, you have a full responsibility for the situation in the workplace. It is crucial, even now, that protection measures are taken everywhere, particularly in workplaces that are health bombs, with intensive controls to comply with appropriate measures and not those adapted to the objectives of increased profitability. It is characteristic that the debate that is taking place and the requirement that large tourism business groups open up with full flexibility, far behind the 2020 measures, which proved to lead to the second wave of thousands of cases, dead and intact. It is a crucial matter that the densification of public transport routes, which the coronary travels, makes routes and is transported everywhere, since one is on the other. The government is responsible for ensuring access to all available vaccines and for taking steps to accelerate population vaccination. In the struggles that the people do not die, you respond with authoritarianism, terrorism, repression, persecution, persecution of those who question you, those who oppose your policy. The position of the New Democracy MP, Mr Maraveya, reveals the government's vengeance against the health fighters, the avengering dismissal of the doctor at the "Saint Savva". Take the Minutes, Mr. Kontozamanis, to read them, to see that the cause is precisely that, the vengeance! We're warning you. Now stop the persecution, the ESAs and the other tactics that seek to silence. That's never gonna happen. You will not shut down the mouth to health, doctors, as you will not shut down the mouth of all the workers, who are preparing for the conflict with you, if you dare bring about the abolition of the fixed daily time, the eighth hour, if you dare change working relationships, if you overturn insurance, pension rights, if you go ahead with the criminalisation of workers' struggles, the reduction of trade union and democratic freedoms. Moreover, it will not stop workers from food - tourism, commerce, courier, tourist bus drivers, tourist attendants, tour guides and all in all to fight the attack on their income, labour and insurance rights. We welcome the current mobilisation of the deliberates for measures to protect their lives and health. We denounce the Minister for Labour, who once again followed the same practice as the previous Minister, and did not meet the association, to discuss the major problems facing these workers, with several deaths, with many accidents, accidents - crimes of employer and government. They are therefore the major victims of tourism workers and we invite them to participate massively in the rallys organised on 9 April. The luckiest in tourism live at 9 euros a day! The government refused to make workers’ contract mandatory in foodism, resulting in more than 100 thousand workers staying at God’s mercy, unprotected. It refuses to satisfy the demands of workers in tourism, so that the vast majority live in poverty and impoverishment, cannot pay the electricity, water, debts to drown them, be in front of seizures, and auction their homes. These are the measures that you have taken, gentlemen, so far and poverty, impoverishment, uncertainty, insecurity, the stress of the workers on how to get through. We call on you, gentlemen, to clarify whether Article 80 includes the 50 employees in the cleanliness of the Ministry of Finance, who are today unemployed. You have to clarify this here. They're also in Article 80 of the Ministry of Interior, yes or no? You have to say it, because here otherwise people read the article, or they read it. The government has to clarify whether there are indeed 50 workers who have today ended their contract with seventeen to twenty years of work in the Ministry of Finance. Finally, gentlemen, the JRC is placed and is against the transfer of casinos to the social fabric in Maroussi, as is against the casino in Greek. We and then we had, if you like, the reactions of the world and we hear them, but SYRIZA then decided to transfer it. However, the employees at the "Mont Parnes" casino have sent a memorandum that calls for the banning of the unilaterally harmful change in working conditions that will be expressly and unequivocally formulated, as institutionalised - Minister, who are not here - under the explicit provision of the operational collective agreement, namely the agreement between employees and employers, in 2014, that there will be no change in the working conditions of the existing staff, both with regard to skills and other working conditions, other than the place of work. So this is not guaranteed through the contract. The reference to the proposed Article that, in the event that the worker considers the transfer of the undertaking to be a harmful change in the terms of the individual contract of employment and cannot therefore continue to provide his or her work, he or she is entitled to receive legal compensation in order to resolve the contract of employment, he or she must be removed and replaced, as requested by the workers, by the rights of the worker referred to in Article 7 by No 2112/20 Finally, five-year protection, which is now only provided for in the new jobs, must also be extended to existing staff, so that from the date of relocation of the casino for a five-year period there is no complaint of a worker's contract serving on the date on which the transfer took place for up to five years. So we put the record in the Minutes - I imagine that the government has taken it - in order to protect the rights of casino workers, which are more than sure of the fact that Article 74 does not guarantee and you have a very great responsibility. Apart from the transfer of the casino, it is the workers themselves at the mercy of the business.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much. I would like to point out, by disapproving and addressing children in deletion from some recipients, especially in the shortest hours! They were called the other day! The Minister for Justice now has the floor, Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras, and then we are going to have our colleagues followed by Webex. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before the National Representation in order to support the specific articles concerning the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the gradual reopening of the courts. Before that, I would like to share some very brief thoughts with you, in order to make all of us a record of where we are together, and why the concrete steps must slowly be taken, which we propose within the draft legislation under discussion. I imagine we all know what we're living in. We are at the peak of another pandemic wave, a peak in all European countries and, of course, we are already in the fourth month of the suspension of the courts. It is - I think it is very important to stress that the rule of law, even at this difficult time, during which there is a suspension of the overall functioning of the courts, has stood up, protecting the freedoms and rights of citizens. At this time, judicial decisions were issued by the judicial officers granted electronically and free of charge, which, of course, both the parties and the lawyers. An important, of course, is the contribution from the digitisation of justice, which has gone all along with the incorporation of new applications. There are five hundred seventy-seven thousand certificates at the present time, and of course the so-called 'electronic file' also went on. Record that only 10 documents had been submitted in 2018, while that figure in 2019 was one thousand and fifty-seven. In 2020, a total of nine thousand seventeen fourteen books and documents were lodged, with an increase of 739%. And in the first quarter of 2021, a total of five thousand thirty books have been filed, which, of course, you realise is due to come up with a new outbreak of electronic filing of procedural documents for the new year. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, Greek justice has come dynamically into the digital age. Digital applications, of course, are being helped, but they do not replace Greek justice. At the time of the suspension, the legal sector - and I think we all recognise this, we recognised it in many discussions in the Ministry of Justice's recent bills - has really been hit very much by reducing the income of thousands of scientists. And throughout this period we know that a consistent request from lawyers was the reopening of courts to protect the industry, but also of course justice as a pillar of democracy. In this direction, therefore, the Government proposes a reasoned step towards restoring Greek justice, in order to be assessed by the Committee on the Koran. For this reason, and for the orderly reopening of justice, whenever judged by the committee - we have already had some discussions since last week - the Ministry of Justice recommends to the National Representation a grid of new procedural arrangements, which facilitates lawyers and parties, so that deadlines and citizens' rights, both in the highest courts and in the political, criminal and administrative courts of the territory, are not lost. In particular, the provisions of the Ministry of Justice provide, after the expiry of the period of suspension of the legal and judicial deadlines, for 'run' periods as long as they fall short of the deadline provided for in the law and are not to be completed if they do not'run' further than 10 days after their intended expiry, both in criminal and political courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u303	And in the administration to extend it, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u304	I think they're all included together, anyway. We will see this, it is a debate that has taken place. I will reply to you, Mr Xanthopoulou, shortly after what you want, but it was already in some way foreseen. It is a dissatisfaction, we will try to deal with it. With regard to enforcement procedures, all auctions shall be cancelled until 13 May 2021. The first residence of those affected by the economic consequences of the coronary pandemic is fully protected until 31 May 2021 and the deadlines of No 4745/2020 are extended. In particular, all auctions shall be cancelled until 13 May 2021. For the period from the start of until the date of the imposition of the measure temporarily suspending the operation of the courts of the country, no reference interest shall be applicable. In addition, an extension of five days from the date of commencement of the reopening of the application referred to in Article 4d of Law 3869/2010 for the periods expiring on 31-1-2021, 28-2-2021 and 15-3-2021 respectively shall be granted. Also, for the protection of the most vulnerable households affected by the pandemic, all enforcement procedures, such as auctions, evictions, seizures, which, of course, may relate to the first residence, continue to be suspended until 31-5-2021. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, we must look at it through one - if you like -'reasonable pressure' - in introductory terms, which exists in order to reopen the process - I repeat - progressively and reasonedly the area of Greek justice. I would like to say a word about the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Justice. This amendment addresses the issue of the management of the consequences of the lifting of communications confidentiality. In particular, where the lifting measure is necessary for the investigation of serious crimes, it is envisaged that the enforcement of the lifting measure may be notified to the affected persons, but that the purpose for which it was ordered is not compromised, as well as the assent of the Public Prosecutor of the Ice Bay is made to the effect. At the same time, due to the abolition of the provisions of Law 3340/2005 mentioned in that provision, it was considered necessary to update that provision by reference to the new provisions of Law 4443/2016, which replaced Law 3340/2005, as regards the use of the information collected before the administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that we are all aware that we are at a really critical and marginal moment. It is a time when what has happened in the past, as far as the so-called 'individual responsibility' is concerned, must be seen as the only way forward, all of us must overcome this great health crisis. During the gradual resumption of the functioning of the courts, measures have already been announced which include, in fact, the possibility of examination via rapid test, with workshops to assist the EGE in the field of courts and with the presence of a police force, in order to enable the security measures to be complied with, but of course also by providing all the means, all the necessary health material, so that the area of justice remains as they are today. It is an area where the pandemic has not been spread. That's the reality. Even the results of a number of rapid test numbers, which we have been doing in recent years and, of course, concerned judicial officers and judicial officers, have indeed had excellent results. We want the area of justice to remain essentially as clear as possible, by blocking and by putting in a protection shield for the transport and dissemination of the pandemic. We will do so by every possible means, by every means - if you like - an offer of procedure or by any proposal that we will be submitted by the administrations of the courts and by the workers and make sure that this is an effort that we all have to do together. I repeat that this is the time when individual responsibility must emerge as the only one - if you wish - the only reference, through which we will gradually be able to return to a model of life that we were used to until the recent past. With these considerations, I would urge you to vote in favour of these provisions. You realise that they are absolutely necessary. And, of course, through CSR, which will update essential issues, but above all will open up roads for procedures that may be relevant to both the administrative courts and the Council of State, the concrete steps to be taken will be laid down in the next few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u305	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u308	I wanted to ask the Minister something. Minister, on the provision of Article 79, which extends over time until 31 May of this year and provides for the suspension of auctions and enforcement measures for those affected by the pandemic, I would like to ask you directly: I imagine it is no coincidence that the implementation of the new bankruptcy code begins on 1 June, so the protection is extended to certain categories of our fellow citizens by 31 May. So from 1 June, and then everyone - who is wounded or not - will be under the bankruptcy code, which we know very well about. Is this the last provision you bring for housing protection, suspension of enforcement and auction measures or will you review it? The question is clear and it is not about you, it is about the government. It is not a question for you personally, because it is a major issue and we all understand what will follow if with the opening of the market, when and when the consequences, the economic consequences of the crisis, there is no possibility of protecting some of our fellow citizens, even with some social and economic measures. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I would also like to raise a matter with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u310	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Fotini Bakadima has the floor now. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we read Article 76, to which you yourself referred, about the time limits which have been suspended and which, in the preceding subparagraphs, are not completed until 10 days have elapsed. We would like to ask that you re-evaluate the deadlines that will be given and, if possible, with legislative improvement, start from the beginning to 'run' all the deadlines so that there are no fellow citizens who will be out of time because of the pandemic and because they will now start to reopen the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u312	As far as I can see, there is no other colleague who wants to ask the Minister a question. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u313	Mr Katrin, I think you are very well aware of how this case has evolved both on the issue of auctions and, of course, on the protection of first homes. I do not want to go back to a debate that will show who may have decided to lift first home protection and where we have arrived to date, but I will tell you that all this time we have done everything possible to extend the time of first home protection. There are already a number of things - within introductory words - 'to tools' in the hands of every citizen, which were either proposed by the Ministry of Finance - I am talking about the 'Geeffyra' programme and about what is a little well-known - whether by the Ministry of Justice and, if you like, the possibility of redefining the cases of the Katseli Act, through which it will in fact be provided in every way and in every way, the protection of the first residence for all people who have been entitled to it and deserve it. I want to make it clear that it is not a question of combining, but of purely procedural proceedings. And if we want to be honest - at least the legal area can know very well what I will say to you - in fact until summer and in fact after 15 July, since no auctions will take place in August, there will be very few auctions in Greece. That's the reality. In addition, however, we must understand that the process of forced execution, on which we are moving forward, does not only have the part of the auctions, which you know very well. These are issues and issues which have a very great and particular social sensitivity; these are issues and issues which may relate to labour disputes; they are issues and issues which may relate to non-payment of food; they are, unfortunately, issues which, at this time of pandemic and closed courts in particular, since, in any case, there were no specific functions, which have increased to a very large degree of social problems, which need to be addressed as a whole. In other words, forced execution, which actually means auctioning, has too many different versions and you realise that it should be foreseen through a specific procedure of dates and times that leave no room for questioning, while respecting, I repeat, all procedural procedures and safeguarding all the citizens' real constitutional rights. As far as your question is concerned, Mrs Bakadima, I would like to be honest and to tell you that there has indeed been a reflection. However, the whole debate has taken place in one, if you wish, of the possibility of agreeing with all the institutions of justice, because that is exactly how we maintain and preserve all citizens' constitutional rights, so that there is no favor on one side or on the other. There has been concern, but I think that the choice made with respect for the constitutional rights of all citizens in order not to create a procedural issue from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Minister. And now Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to submit to the Minutes some legislative improvements to the urgent draft law of the Ministry of Health. So given that it is enough, I put it in the Minutes to be distributed for an economy of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Minister. And now we're entering the third and final circle of speakers through WEBEX. The aquarium will be opened by Thessalonikios Alexandros Triantafylides from SYRIZA. Mr. Spiritis will follow from New Democracy, and then I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, unless Mrs. Notopoulou does not want to wait. Here, Mr Triantafylides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the hours are critical. It is hoped, directly and necessary life-threatening measures, such as the immediate maintenance of large private clinics, so that they do not stay intacted outside the ICU in the waiting list of the EMCDDA, immediate use of therapy with monoclonal antibodies, mass prescribing molecular PCR tests, mass vaccinations, with access to all available approved vaccines, and the immunisation of the public health system, with permanentisation of all the personnel of the ASH and contractors. At the time the government celebrates everything is going well, the BLOOMBERG assesses it negatively. Twenty positions Greece lost to deal with the pandemic. In particular, Greece is in the forty-five between fifty-three countries and the seventeenth among twenty European countries. SYRIZA and BLOOMBERG? At the time that the New Democracy MPs celebrate everything is going well, the front page of the newspaper "Dimouratia" is typical: "Lies and hypocrisy" writes. On 12 January, the Prime Minister told Mr Hatzinikolaou: 'I want to assure you that four million instalments have been made by the end of March'. SYRIZA and the newspaper “DIMMOCRATIA”? Today, March, Mr Mitsotakis, and the emvolio.gov.gr tell us that there have been a million seven hundred thousands of vaccinations and just six hundred thousand second-dose vaccinations. Reality is avenged, but so much worse for reality. It doesn't burn you! The 'butlers' of misinformation are there and will make sure they do the black white. What can we do? The vaccines didn't come, you say. But instead of playing the project "For everything is the fault of SYRIZA", waiting for the vaccines to come, do it like Cyprus, Israel and Serbia. you, who, on 13 December 2020, met the leaders of the Greek vaccine-producing companies, in addition to public relations, would be well advised to send us vaccines. If your first concern is the health of Greek citizens, listen to your fellow Austrian Prime Minister Kurts declares to "EURONEWS" that it is reasonable not to look where a vaccine comes from, but if it is safe and effective. SYRIZA and Kurts? In Austria, authorities have started discussions with Russia on the purchase of a million doses of Sputnik V, while France, Italy, Spain and Spain have already signed the Russian vaccine production agreements in their countries. Vaccination with access to all authorised vaccines is the road. This is how the Prime Minister who first thinks about his people and his citizens and after the chair of power. Vaccination progresses with turtle rate. I read from the approved 'KATHMERINA' the following: 'In Britain, a record of the administration of vaccines for a second day. It was granted on March 21st, eight hundred, seventy thousand vaccines in one 24/7 recording a record for the second day. The day before, he had granted seven hundred seventy thousand." In other words, within two days, the United Kingdom has vaccinated those of you, the “perfect ones”, in ninety days, in three months! With these speeds and with the vaccinations out of order on the 'below blues', we will be late to see the immunity of the community by vaccination of 60% of the citizens with both doses. However, the economy, focus and tourism are unpopular. You promised them at the end of May a wall of immunity to safely open their operations. What do we have today? We have more than eight thousand deaths of our fellow citizens, seven hundred forty-forty permeable patients in and out of the ICU, four thousand three hundred forty cases. And all this after five months Lockdown in society and the economy. You underestimate the intellect of the people who suffocate. You brought society to the'red', leveling the economy, without at the same time being able to control the dispersion of the coronary. And you, at the same time as you have lost control, take it, triumph, 'all goes well'. masks you can only make balloons. Vaccines you cannot bring, anti-coron virus medicines you cannot enter, IF in private clinics you cannot check. So what can you do? You can model the status quo of the "Ice", the society on the ice and in isolation, the House in repression with fast track bills, through WEBEX involving two hundred fifty MPs from a distance, doctors and nurses in threatening and prosecuting. The silence of the lambs, no disgusting, no redundancies, no redemption! Instead of applause and simulations, instead of getting into heavy and unhealthy, instead of overtime, instead of exceptional allowances, now only persecutions and dismissals of doctors at "Saint Savvas" in Athens, AHEPA in Thessaloniki, withholding 15 days in a qualified doctor in "Evangelism" because he spoke to his sub-government! I have even heard the majority rapporteur call the auxiliary and contractors of the ESS "unskilled staff". Apologise now for the ERC staff! "It is not the area of the ESY of opportunistic action, as you consider it", SYRIZA, that is, "to exhaust it in terms of social employment, with unskilled or other staff", you said, Mr. rapporteur. Will we achieve an upgrade of the health system with unskilled personnel? Well, don't you have a gum? Your Prime Minister on November 26th was committed to permanentising temporary and seasonal and contracted nurses. The same view was expressed by the propathidis Vice President of the Parliament Nikitas Kaklamanis. Members of the New Democracy even yesterday sent letters to the Minister of Health and asked him to turn their contracts into vague ones. And do you characterize them in this House as "inexperienced staff" and are you not ashamed? You laugh at a world that every day plays the life of the crown - letters inside the intensive, face card with the coronary. The ministers themselves say to you: Why should we perpetuate them? After the pandemic, they'll all be gone. If this is the deepest advice of the Mitsotakis Government, you will have committed, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the greatest dishonesty and humanity at the expense of people who pledge their lives to support the NSH and to save human lives. Response to the guardian and cleaner, radiologist, physiotherapist and haematologist, nurse, traumatizer, wardrobe assistants, feeding and pharmacy, who are valuable rings of a life chain called the National Health System. You are aware of the fact that you have not taken into account our proposals for a year. In April 2020, from Thessaloniki, where I speak to you, in and out of the House, we proposed the reopening of the Loimon Hospital and the old "424" as a call COVID center. Did we just suggest it? It was proposed by all the political leaders of counter-population, all health trade unions, including your own, the president of private clinics, Mr. Sarafianos, who even stated on a channel that you had started work within the Lomond and interrupted them and that with EUR 1 million, both hospitals, locomoton and the old "424", they would be ready to help and be an elbow for the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u318	Finish, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u319	I'll be done. Thank you for your understanding, Mr President. For all this, then, there was no money! But 3 million euros directly outsourced to the company that organized the New Democracy election campaign in 2019, you found money. Eighty-six million for "listers" Petsa and Kikilia, you found the money. When “Black” November 2020 came for Thessaloniki, what did you do? You didn't need the lomonon and the old '424'. You set up a military hospital in the parking lot of the new '424'. We're checking you for unforgivable, criminal slander, for unforgivable frugality, without a plan and no plan. The full and exclusive political responsibility of the Government of Mitsotakis and the New Democracy for the Thessaloniki tragedy of November 2020 will always follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u321	I shall conclude with one sentence only, Mr President. You left my city helpless, with the hundreds of deaths that Mr Mitsotakis himself accepted. "In Thessaloniki we fell out," he said, despite repeated reports from August 2020, not from the side of SYRIZA, but from the parties and experts, such as Mr. But, apparently, you haven't learned from the tragedy of Thessaloniki either. You don't mind. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u322	Be well. Now let's go to Mr Spyridon Intellectual, Member of the New Democracy, whom I would like to thank for the facilitation he has made to me. Here, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u324	I know you're always consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u325	Be well, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all witnessing the recent impact of a prolonged state of pandemic on the health system and society as a whole. With the bill, then, this government is attempting to make a change of course, trying to speed up return to normal conditions in our country. In this context, I believe, one cannot question the urgency of the regulations of the Ministry of Health, which we are discussing today, which are necessary to deal with the pandemic and support the system. The situation we are experiencing is unprecedented. No country worldwide has a previous experience in the management of such a pandemic and we hope in the future that this will never happen again. So what we need to realize is that the history of the world has shown us that the only solution to pandemics is the immunity of the herd. In order to do so, we need about 60% of the country's population to have been in contact with the virus and to have developed antibodies. And this can be done either by vaccination or through illness. The government is therefore moving on from the National Vaccine Programme at a very intensive rate and the programme is being implemented outright. We have so far been over one million vaccinated, while immediately opening up new Mega vaccination centres and the vaccination of vulnerable groups has begun. This draft law already provides for seven days of operation of these vaccination centres. Our country is clearly ahead of most European countries in a rate of vaccination, if we compare our population, and that is what we all have to admit and recognise. As regards the immunity acquired by the diseasers, it is important to find out what the real prevalence of the disease in our country is, that is, the number of people who have actually suffered. In addition to the recorded cases, there are asymptomatic patients who in most cases may never have realized that they were ill. The key here is the antibody test in the general population. The second way is to be able to carry out mass tests on the general population. So the government has chosen, in addition to the tests already carried out, the self-tests, so that we can have an immediate assessment of the cases. The antibody tests, together with the self-tests, which will start immediately, as provided for in this bill, will be able to lead us to a coordinate and controlled "opening" so that society can return to normal conditions as soon as possible. There's no doubt the world's tired. This is undeniable and perfectly understandable. The economy has reached its limit, so superhuman efforts are also being made by the country's financial staff to support the economy, as is apparent from this bill. I'll say it again: pandemic is an unprecedented experience. Our aim is to restore society to normal conditions. And first of all, we need to think about our children, which is the future of our country. As a parent and I of a student and a III-year-old student who's given all-Greek exams soon, I see how long-standing lockdown and absence from the educational area have affected children's mentality. Unfortunately, the whole situation that pandemic creates is like a mortgage on our children's future, it's like someone stealing their future. The provisions of the Ministry of Education are therefore designed to carry out a coronary diagnostic check on students, students and students and to prioritise teachers with doses. These moves confirm that the opening up of schools to the benefit of children is a priority. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken timely measures from the start, has taken a step - on the basis of developments and always in cooperation with the scientific community. Let us stress here that the strategy must be decided by the government in cooperation with the Scientific Committee. It manages the crisis as a whole and has at its disposal all the necessary data to announce the next steps. The constant pluralism of various well-beings, both in Greece and abroad, about what needs to be done for the management of the pandemic, ultimately confuses the world, creates stress and often opposite results from the aims pursued. In hunting for temporary publicity, society as a whole cannot be affected. We are therefore close to the end of a test. Everyone's efforts and conditions make us optimistic that today society and the economy will be able to return to normal pace. Until then, we continue to keep up all the measures, social distances, use of a mask, washing hands, which have historically proved to be the only means that have helped the pandemics. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u326	And we thank Mr. Spiritual from New Democracy and beautiful Evia. The Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, is called at Vima. To prepare for Mrs Notopoulou, Mr Papadimitriou and Mrs Likolis. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, I will not deal with the urgency of a multiplier project with provisions of ten, twelve ministries and whether it is urgent or not, because these issues are of secondary importance. Let's get through to the point. The essence is no more than the world dying in waiting for a ITH bed and at the same time the private health sector. That, Minister, is a crime. No other expression can describe it. And the government is responsible for this situation. We cannot silence, put back or even make a moratorium, as SYRIZA asks, just to get over the canvas, that is, the pandemic, as a spokesman of the New Democracy said. And we say this because the government has criminal responsibilities because it has not taken all the measures available and necessary to protect public health, hiding behind the logic of individual responsibility. Of course, there is no Greek peculiarity about how the government handled the pandemic. The same situation occurs in all developed economies. Here too a great 'why' comes in. We say this clearly: The cause of this situation in all the developed capitalist economies is precisely that, over time, governments have sacrificed the protection of public health and the needs of the people on the altar of the needs of the capitalist economy and the profitability of business groups. One example of today's debate, one of the many things that have been said: He wondered and expressed his anxiety about the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman because the government did not take all the protection measures in the light of the new tourist season. In what respect did he criticise the government? He criticised the government from the point of view of the needs of groups active in the tourism sector. We do not subjugate the protection of the health of workers and public health to economic interests. Indeed, this image is presented at a time when it is not exaggerated to say that technologically, scientifically, research could have minimised the effects of pandemic worldwide and in our country. We see that too, because the effects of pandemic on vaccines are not minimized. The competition for which company will advance the vaccine on a larger scale and the geostrategic warfare have huge implications. As soon as the day before, some tens of millions of vaccines were found in warehouses in Rome ready to be exported to countries outside the European Union? There's a trade war about the first vaccine to come out on the market. This is the most recent example of the parasitic character of what you defend. We say it clearly: responsible for this situation is the logic of health trade, which is the result of which is the profits earned by some, taking advantage of human suffering. It is clear that, like you, other countries cannot find the golden breakthrough between measures to protect the pandemic and the needs of the capitalist economy, because the marginal situation in public health systems extends the time of the prohibitions of economic activity and worsens the situation experienced by workers, professionals and self-employed people. Also, the non-use of protection measures in large workplaces, which would undermine the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, turn them into outbreaks of disease over transmission, therefore there are greater consequences. Failure to take measures in public transport has exactly the same print, i.e. the multiplication of pandemic in the community. The result of this whole process is nothing but the vicious circle: restrictions, opening, restrictions, opening. The result of this vicious circle is the enlargement of the problems faced by the people, the anguish of the wider people about how the pandemic is evolving and about the consequences it has, the anguish for today of the workers, the self-employed, and much more about tomorrow, as the problems they have to face increase, take the form of avalanches that live and, of course, accumulate the debts, old and new. The reason why this situation exists is obvious: firstly, there is no primary care for health. And how do you respond to the lack of primary health care? With self-test, you say, which each individual will do, instead of strengthening primary health care. And you say that self-tests will be mandatory for the opening up of schools. If there was a developed primary health care, it would also cover the schools, because within each school complex it could - as part of primary health care - have been a doctor and a nurse. How different it would be! Aren't these possibilities available? Is that a luxury? And there are nurses who could meet these needs. Second element: Public health hospitals are under collapse, with very great shortages in staff, infrastructure, in ICU, with shortages in respirators. And you are making this situation worse. You've turned the hospitals into hospitals of a disease. Refugee stubbornly, Minister, to reopen hospital infrastructures which both your governments and the SYRIZA government have closed down in previous years. I will remind you of a recent timely question that we had developed for the Thorakos Hospital in Patras. What was your answer? That in Patras there is no problem, that everything works 'roloi'. Why don't you go and tell the hospitals in Patras how much "role" work? And the "Agios Andreas" and the University Hospital of Rio have stopped any other activity, because they cannot deal with it, waiting on a waiting list for the ITH. So "rolls" work! But the Thorakos Hospital, which is ready to work, is not working again. You also have a selective attitude to treat vaccines, while you should have sought, had demanded that all licensed vaccines be released on the Greek market and that the licensed vaccines be accelerated. But why not speed up licensing? Because it is clear that it will go against the interests of other pharmaceutical companies, which already carry the vaccines, not that there will be vaccines available to the people. Profits you put above everything. That's what you're thinking and that's what you're fighting for. And of course, the requisition of the public health sector, as the JRC proposes, is a real order. Because it cannot stir up, that is, living at the expense of public health, and undermining the public health sector. The private sector cannot function and live at the expense of people's needs and exploit human suffering. This is its parasitic character and is not only a parasitic character, but it is also confirmed that the character of the private health sector is also harmful. We say this clearly: Reimbursement without compensation, because the JRC, Minister, is in favour of abolishing business activity in the health sector. We are in favour of the abolition, and we are calling 'equalisation'. Of course, order in the current circumstances, without compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u328	Confiscation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u329	Put whatever title you want, Minister. We are in favour of the abolition of the business activity in the health sector as a JRC, for precisely the private health sector is deepening the trade in health, which goes against it, contrary to the fact that health should be a social asset. We are against your logic and the rest of the parties, that health issues are an individual choice, and that everyone should choose where they are going. We say that health is a collective provision, which must be provided throughout the world free of charge, upgraded to all the people, without discrimination. So here's the classicity of your choice and your own government and the previous governments of SYRIZA, PASOK and the others on health issues. That is why we say that the socialised health sector highlights the enormous excellence it can have against this regime which you are defending and which leads to hundreds of deaths. From this point of view, the second element of the bill is the effects on the economy in terms of pandemic. What do you give? For the people, for the workers, for some categories of unemployed, for some categories of self-employed, and at the same time you are suspending, he says, the burdens they have on their backs. And you're inhibiting them for when? For the next time, to pay for these burdens in multiple times and at the same time, the large packages are directed to the large monopolistic groups, not only the financial packages but also the measures taken to the detriment of the workers, by breaking labour rights: rotating work, preparing for the release of working hours - ten hours - to the detriment of the self-employed, who lead them to a violent out-of-market concentration of economic activity in less and less and less hands. This is how you serve the major business groups. Thus, the provisions on GEOGRAPHY 2 are provisions which serve banks, which support the liquidity of the banks. Why? In order not to have new red loans and to finance them with employees' money, and at the same time to become hostages of banks and their loan servicing borrowers, because if they are unable in the next period, when state support stops, they must also pay up all the contributions that the state has made to them in the past period retrospectively. Should you respond to the loans from professionals, traders and the self-employed on the proposal from the JRC, which says what? That for incomes up to 12,000 haircuts, interest rates, high interest rates, but also 30% of the debt they have. That's how they could breathe. But that's not what you're doing. What are you talking about? The situation with the cleaners at the Ministry of Finance is obvious, and these legislative improvements you have now tabled, Mr Minister, are actually being thrown out of the way because you are taking off the cleaning sector from what we have seen. We want you to respond specifically to this. You fly out of the cleaning sector from the Ministry of Finance and you say only guarding and disinfection rather than cleaning. Is this the case, Minister? Do you throw them on the streets once and for all? From this point of view, workers are at mercy, the long-term unemployed without an allowance. The provisions you brought for the casino and which are a complement to the previous government are typical. What do you want? You want to make it easier for the business group not to implement the collective labour agreement and, at the same time, to make redundancies for workers who are abundant to hire young people, with lower wages and worse working conditions. So we have the two casinos in Athens, OPAP gamblers in every neighborhood of Athens, online casinos in every house in Athens. Here, then, is the parasitic nature of the development that you, SYRIZA and others are defending. This is where the repression, authoritarianism, terrorism come from. We call it clear. The workers will not sneeze, Minister. I am still waiting for the answers to the two questions I raised before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u330	And hang up with this, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Karthanasopou, because the emergency has no dentistry as long as you can be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u333	Are you adopting the unacceptable and deplorable statements and statements made by the New Democracy MP to the President of the "Saint Savva" Hospital of workers? Also, will you stop his dismissal? Will you stop the persecution that you have initiated with employees' trade unions in the field of health, with the SADs that you have started? Mr President, to say two, three issues for the National Recovery Plan 'ELLADA 2.0'. In substance, it is a national project that incorporates the designs of the European Union, the designs of the ruling class. It is not a neutral tool, and that is why we as a JRC do not agree. The KINAAL Parliamentary Representative said we all agree with the Recovery Fund. He's wrong. Let him talk about himself, about SYRIZA, the New Democracy that agrees with the Recovery Fund. We say that the new investments, which will be made, are made to ensure profitability and are based on a very cheap labour force. This regime of very cheap labour force crushes the Prime Minister's record of quality jobs. Why? Because there are already all the memorial, anti-government laws that are in place, but the following ones, and they will come in the next period, such as rotating work, liberalisation of working hours. And if these do not exist, there is the European Union's error, the generalised error where the disbursement of each instalment of the fund is linked to new anti-grass-demands. So the JRC named the new Recovery and Resilience Fund as the Pan-European Monument, or if you wish, "ELLADA 2.0", we add a Memorandum 5.0". Thus, it provides new incentives, new tax exemptions for business groups and carries tax burdens on the people's backs, in the name of budgetary discipline and bleeding primary surpluses. Who's gonna pay for this package is clean. The people will pay for it from their taxation, because 'free money does not exist', as the Prime Minister said. And, of course, it will be a growth at the expense of the people, at the expense of the environment, and it is at the foot of the particular social and people's needs. To satisfy the current needs of the people and young people really require a break first and foremost with the strategy of the European Union, the bourgeois order and the other parties serving it. The interest of the Greek people lies in the struggle for the other path of development, focusing on their own goals for life, modern rights and their satisfaction. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u334	Thank you. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, once again you bring this bill to Parliament at dawn, you pass it through the relevant committees of order, and we come to a plenary with a summary procedure. You obviously think that the fewer people perceive the carelessness and carelessness with which you choose to deal with the third wave of pandemic, the better for you. The mess, however, in which you have chosen to drag the country is not hidden. Yesterday's information about the country's epidemiological situation was to seal the failure of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to deal with the pandemic. We count five months after hard Lockdown, the hardest in Europe, the most failed and the longest. Once again, human losses are so heavy that they throw the whole country into severe mourning. The whole country, except for Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government. They don't miss an opportunity to photograph or make pompous statements in front of the cameras. I am surprised to hear Mr Brutsis once again about his success stories, which you only understand, experience and enjoy. This is the definition of disfellowshipping from the real world, literally depositing the absence of any trace of empathy, is the personalization of cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are persistently refusing to ask yourself why they do not give rise to such tough measures that have been imposed on our country. We were criticised earlier by Mr Brutsis on whether we were serious opposition. Are you serious government? Is a government that is proud of its success when the country is experiencing such a tragedy? A government that literally plays with the pillar of our national economy, tourism? A government that, in order to hide the mess in which the country is being drawn, is persecuting its political opponents, even on the grounds that they have protected the public interest? Instead of assuming its responsibilities, it is literally trying to turn the House into a washing machine and still - the worst of all - to claim in the midst of a pandemic, with so many deaths every day, that IGCs are thrown money. So you are talking today about urgent arrangements and we are still wondering - the rapporteurs and all our speakers have said so - why you are still refusing to take measures to improve the situation in public transport. Flembe has become the buses in Thessaloniki, self-contained after each other. Why do you still not take steps to improve in the heavy workplaces, to radically improve the ESS? Why don't you move on to a long-term design? And I am immediately going through the arrangements that you are bringing today concerning the Ministry of Tourism. We are not surprised that the short-term duration of these measures is not surprising. What really surprises us is that you repeat last year's mistakes. You have learned nothing of your mistakes and you are not in the end facing the problem. We are all saying and agree that sustainable and safe health restarting tourist activity is a national case. Good. Why do you reopen tourism without a plan? You are experimenting literally at the expense of public health, you are charming to experiment from the Netherlands in Crete, etc. And that's how you undermine our tourist product. I have heard Mrs Zacharakis, first if I am not mistaken, announcing the official opening of tourism. Then Mr. Theocharis followed, wanting to prevent, who spoke of pilot openings. Within the weekend, the first tourists have already arrived and we expect the famous experiment in the Netherlands. Finally, the country's most powerful economic activity, will be developed with experiments? What's the world of tourism? Experimental animals? What is the world that lives in this country and what are travelers? Paleokrassas, last-minute changes, lack of strategy, lack of credibility. You have not yet brought any protocols, revised this year, nor bilateral agreements on which you are applauding. There is no health shield, and again you say that you are opening with the failed EVA algorithm. When will the tourism workers be vaccinated, something that should be done first? How will business and workers be supported and what is the plan? You are not answering, and the Minister refuses to answer the timely question we have tabled. Your plan is exhausted in the provision of Article 110, in which you admit that the provision of the ‘Health first’ mark by the Ministry of Tourism does not meet the real needs. So on your own, this year you are calling into question last year's certification procedure, so your own credibility. Let us not talk about the provision of Article 111, about quarantine hotels. You invite hoteliers, masters and non-mainland tourist accommodations to put their backs on once again and they will put them on, because this is Greek tourism. He always puts back on every need of the country. You call on them to put back, to place their accommodation, ready for operation, even though they are in a bad financial situation, without - and this is a great shame! - you've still paid them back. A year has passed and the payments of invoices issued have not been repaid. It is obviously indifferent to you that, because of the invoices issued by these operators and because of the operating costs of the accommodations, they were deprived of the minimum financial liquidity they had. You obviously do not think that these are the people who risk staying outside of financial instruments. The majority of them have already been left. And I'm closing up with this. You continue injustice for a very critical sector for the country's economy and the tourist economy. I am referring to the tourist offices. Excludes both workers and enterprises from all Employers', Insurance Contributory Measures under Article 97. With this completely unjustified exception, you are actually attempting to break up the tourist businesses that operate throughout the year in hotel and non-hotel, judging the first, no matter what the second ones are. But do you not really know that this is one of the most important sectors of tourism, that it is moving about 85% of organised tourism in the country, that it employs over 30 000 workers, that it is falling by more than 90% compared with 2019 and that is why it is necessary and necessary to join the relevant regulations? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, please - we are finally calling on you to move - directly to substantial liquidity movements of all the tourist businesses and, at the same time, to make a generous adjustment of their debts accumulated during the pandemic. We got into a lockdown inside the lockdown with a thousand three hundred cases and today you're reopening, without a plan, with four thousand three hundred forty. This is the result of your policy. No plan, painful tragic results. You can't rule this country. The country is walking to the cliff, and even today, apart from the fact that you have lost it, you must consider the size of your responsibility, because you have plunged the country into an insurmountable tragedy, health and economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mrs Notopoulou, and thank you for keeping time. Madam as always! Mr. Papadimitriou speaks for seven minutes from the B3' Athens Sector of New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must say - and I imagine that we will all agree on this and forget it at some point - that we owe a very large 'thank you'. This bill comes to confirm this need for "thank you" to taxpayers, who support the state, so that the state supports the people who need the most in this tragedy that we live in, we and, of course, the whole world. I have to say that 'thank you' should also be addressed to children, because children, younger generations, will be invited to pay the debts that are currently created, together with the debts that we have created in the previous period, even though they are the younger of us who are facing the biggest problems in this period of pandemic. Why should we at all forget that, apart from ensuring life, which is the major, we need to understand how great the trauma is and how now scientists themselves now include it in measuring the consequences of pandemic and how it should be addressed. So a great 'thank you' is not bad to hear and I would like to say it on behalf of - I am sure - all of my colleagues. What I cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, is the insistence on opposition on certain things. I take, for example, what you mentioned. You did so about two months ago, when Greece again had lost positions in the indicator that compiled one of the largest news agencies of capitalism. Periodically you love it or hate it. It does not matter, but you do so without reading what 'BLOOMBERG' says. BLOOMBERG has put us in many positions for two reasons. One, the most important reason is that we have had a very big increase in cases in the last month. I think that every man, by hand in conscience, would have wondered about this. ‘I must so often refer to this indicator ‘BLOOMBERG’, the ‘BLOOMBERG’ table, without recognising my great responsibilities as to how things have happened in the last month’. Because you know very well that, without perhaps pursuing it, without perhaps saying it openly, you have contributed a great deal to the spread of the disease, and that is exactly what we have been dealing with in the last month. Fortunately, we have done so, now, I think that the proposals of the bill are coming back where they need and bring new aid - after the law that we voted on how those who left them tied backwards to their debts and creditors - to the people who now, by tens of thousands, regulate loans both from summer onwards - God! - they will be able to regulate and forget that the laws, like you did to them, were not for the many, they were for the few. One example I will tell you until you remember it and inspire it, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. A man who had 60,000 income a year was "locked" and didn't have to pay more than 50 euros a month. He was fine, all his property protected. Instead, people in need could not be protected from the laws as you left them behind, when of course in February 2019 you abolished the last protection, to give thought, hoping that we will not be able to find a solution. There's a solution and you'll see it now that it works. I also want to say that there is an obsession. I note that there are some of the Vice-Presidents. They say every once in a while 'why we don't take Sputnik V'. Sputnik V or V for the Victory, depending on how one reads Russian propaganda, must first of all meet the needs of the Russian people. It's way behind, unfortunately. It is under half of where we are, although we have some delays, because of Europe, but we are going very well compared to all the other European countries in this regard. Let them help their country. Let them get permission from the European Agency, let them find factories to produce it, and here we are to use it. And in the end - you all know it and everyone - it's no different from the scientists who say it's 'ASTRAZENCA', it's an evil coincidence. I would also say that we should be a little more polite and, if not congratulating, say a good word about the people who are being watched, about the people who want to open up with measures like what we know, with strict measures and strict observance of them. That's what the Opposition played and lost. I am not saying that we do not, on the majority side, have the damage, which of course the state affairs manager will suffer. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Evidently, the majority suffers damage and we take it on us. Because everything was done so that we could deal with the pandemic and the big mistake was one and only, that it is not possible to put the people in quarantine just like that and lock him in a house. Because the measures were implemented with generosity and attention, I would say that there were also the problems. You've unfortunately made your rock get worse. That is exactly what I accept, and I understand that, despite all the self-criticism some of my fellow Members are doing in this House - welcome - you must see that, with a million six hundred thousand vaccines that we are now doing, with a million seven hundred thousands that we have already done and with these people who have acquired immunity, because unfortunately they have suffered, we will go near the four million covered citizens. So we're going out with courage the next day, we're going out courageously to face the pandemic, with the same courage that we took all the measures. He put the state over 30 billion in order to be able to deal with the pandemic. We're fine and we're on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u338	The honourable Member now has the floor of the Movement of Change, Evangelia Lykoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, under conditions of pandemic, we now meet with the relevant Ministry, a treaty, unfortunately, which brings with it a huge anxiety, an anguish for today, an anguish for tomorrow, numbers that scare, with a number of horrors of terror every afternoon: How many are the couples who are intact, how many are new cases, how many have they managed to stay in life, how many other families have they been fighting a great deal. As always, today, Mr President, and with us I think we should address all the people who give the battle and this day to be a day of joy at the end, not to have any victims at all, to have the opportunity to recover. My previous colleague, my fellow Member of Parliament, wanted to give a signal of optimism, which I would very much like to share, but that the situation that has been formed in our country, but also the mental situation of all of us, does not allow me, unfortunately, to adopt. Mr. Ministers, pandemic is a pretext and a vehicle for bad lawmaking now. It's over and over! I am very sorry that as a legal person, first of all, I am obliged to complete a procedure that comes in secret and which goes in derogation - and we are talking about appointments again, we are talking about commissions, we are talking about extensions - in a pandemic process, which, together with the dry one, is also a green one. And I'll explain what I mean by that. First, though, I would like to say that in this phase where we are, we must get out of public, loud and clear, without speaking behind the teeth and without wanting to interpret it behind the words and tell us how the vaccination course goes, who are promoted in vaccination, who have been vaccinated until now, if the complaints that are heard right and left that have been vaccinated separately and secretly, are valid if the special groups are joining the vulnerable population for which the platforms are opened, what are you doing with the people on the front line, as they are in the special schools? In my region, Larissa, we already buried in a special school the other day and had no underlying illness. And don't start that. We should now decide to be serious about dealing with the murder virus against people exposed every day. It's over! You should tell us that responsibly and seriously. We are constantly told that the platforms are being opened, that we are constantly being told that the number of vaccinated people is increasing, that there is no problem with the vaccine that so much has been heard and heard. You are obliged as government, with the institutional role, responsibility and weight, to go out into the world and speak true and firm. It's a pandemic, it's not even "Greek statisticals" to cook them, it's none of them. It has to do with human life, with the existence of man, the highest, the most respected good in democracy, which should be respected on the other hand, as I say. Many times we're toasted by the pandemic soro. This is another chapter. He's not here, we'll talk about it later. We are here today to discuss a dozen Ministries of Ministries a hundred and fourteen provisions, which you are once again bringing in the usual way, suddenly, emblematicly, fragmentedly, a hat of a legislative process of parliamentism, which is now in grey zone. There's nothing else to it. We will only say that at least by law we are 'with the back on the wall'. We tolerate procedures and situations, we often adopt practices only to facilitate people and citizens by putting back on the first, second, third wave of pandemic. We do not forget, however, how you bring all this, but also the image of the government's readiness that you do not have... (it wasn't heard because of a bad connection), as you said you would. Questions are now relentless, because they have spent a lot of time without having prepared a series of production of executives, people who will be serving at the ICMs, without having finally acquired all the number of doctors and the staff you told us that you would have acquired, without having equipped with thousands of beds and thousands of staff the ICMs, as you told us in the previous two months, since your last intake of the two hundred six, did not have to be done if you had done all this. Simple common sense. Do not go beyond common sense, Minister. In any case, we are in a vortex right now, in which the country needs consent. They need proposals like the Change Movement every day. We need to say - and I repeat - the truth and give the world the good thing that it deserves for its patience and for its persuasiveness and not to put the citizens to us, that they are responsible for everything that they have failed and for the hard lockdown that they have not done. If it were not hard - I heard it today from a number of members of the Coupling Committee - and if the measures were observed or were not respected, the state's control mechanism is responsible. So don't say that, because boomerang is back to you. I would like to say two words about the green, Minister, which you are burning up with today. You are bringing with Article 56 a provision concerning seventy-five prevention centres throughout the country. I have had the honor as a volunteer to serve them by the institution of local government for years. So I know from the inside what's going on. What did you guys do now? Where stocks are available in prevention centres, the OECD Board of Directors, appointed by you, has the right to offset these bank balances and thus not to grant grants to OECD Prevention Centres. What you do don't think we don't understand. Swallow winds, I tell you, and you will reap storms. There is no other institution in Greece, such as the prevention centres, to serve the prevention of scientifically and in such a way, giving examples of writing, such as the Larissa Prevention Centre, which lifted the gold prize from Stavanger, Norway, the Pompidou Prize. He then brought it to Greece, and it was the President of the Republic himself who welcomed the Greek delegation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Such samples of Greek science production at the level of prevention are also available with a monoconon, with a hidden article among other provisions, you come to deceive them in reality and become the home of this particular article, so that you also disappear this institution that has been left due to the honorableness of some working scientists, but above all of the presence volunteers, people of local government, without even asking for local self-government. As the Head of the Movement of Change in the Internal Market, I ask you: How is it possible to make such a decision without asking the institutions of self-government, who have been supporting prevention centres for so many years? How is it possible without any consultation? I tried to find out in the explanatory statement what the hell you say about that. That's not what you're talking about. What can you say, anyway? You're doing a booklet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u340	Mrs. Liikali, you've been over time. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u341	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. You didn't ask anyone. Immediately you decided and ordered. It is an unacceptable regulation and I will tell you how unacceptable it is. Instead of recruiting seventy-five living organisations with scientific staff and self-government and throwing them into battle for mental health and the consequences of the pandemic, what are you doing? You put them on the shelf, closing the eye wickedly to all the private bodies who are waiting outside, and even from abroad. Do you think we're not seeing them? Do you think we don't understand? Our position and our request is only one and it is clear. Take it back right now! Take this arrangement back, because I honestly tell you that the storms you reap will be very great. It's one of the few left to be proud of. Well, at least don't deprive us of this pride, for which the people of local communities have worked very hard, without being appointed by you and every government, just for their homeland and country, as just volunteers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u342	We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Mario Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very briefly wanted to make a few comments on this draft law, but first of all, I will not avoid being tempted to make one comment. The observation is that it is a draft law with a hundred and fourteen articles, which has too many issues of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, which concern one to one of society. All the criticism I have heard from the Opposition, although it is not my job to judge what others say, that it was not focused on the articles, so that I can imagine the government to correct, if it considers that it should correct certain provisions or amend and improve issues relating to the wider social group. It's easy to criticize. The health sector has always been offered and is now being offered to make its criticisms, because both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole handle a large number of issues affecting the COVID pandemic -19. The circumstances are unprecedented. I appreciate and put my view on the basis of this draft law that overall management has been properly managed, it has been satisfactorily done, that the objectives have been achieved. No one's perfect. Everyone could always suggest something that could improve efficiency and decisions, since of course the enemy is well known in advance. The enemy in this particular case was not known. He was a stranger. Even today we don't know how much immunity from vaccines is. So those of us who were vaccinated do not know when they will need to be vaccinated again, whether it is October, November or December 2021, and therefore whether we will have to design the first immunity wall again before we finish the first immunity wall in the autumn of the next vaccination period. And as long as there's no cure for this fibrosis case, I think we'll live with what's called COVID-19. So, because we are not done and we have a road ahead of us on the basis of the remark I have just mentioned to you, to make a criticism, I imagine that it must first of all have the measurable result of the decisions taken by a government in relation to the anticipated, ideal and, secondly, to make a comparison with successful other countries that are easier to do. That is, if France, England, France, Germany, Spain, the United States of America, Canada, Sweden, Belgium, where the latter are countries with a population as much as Greece, they did better, obviously the complaints and criticisms of the Civilian Staff would concern us and would cause us all to be troubled. On the basis of the second criterion, external relations with other countries, I think our country has done quite well. Obviously, we're not done, because Italy, which had already opened up. People are tired. We meet every day, we know, but this is not our conversation today. Today we have a draft law before us which has too many remarks. And I close here, so that I can be useful, adding a touch of remarks to even one provision, since the Civic Opposition did not do so, with the exception of the previous colleague of KINAL, who made an observation on Article 56. To be honest, I did not understand why he objected to the cash being offset by the subsidy, because I do not know how much cash is available. I guess she doesn't know either. Because, if it is enough, it may obviously be within the economic context that there is no need for a grant. So "take it back" didn't give me to understand. But to be useful, because I must not make the same mistake as the Opposition, which is always the same, I wanted, Minister, to make this observation. In Article 55 you have a provision for clawback of medicines. With this device you are excluded from clawback the low molecular weight heparins. So here, I have an objection. I do not see why you should exclude this class from clawback, since, despite the fact that in December 2019 you were right to make a paragraph that there were no increases in the first price bulletin, you prevented the very bad law - the Ministerial Decision of Xanthos, who had said that with its provisions there would be a thousand ninth drugs. For those of SYRIZA who do not know where he said so, he told the Committee on Social Affairs on the day that the appointment of the chairman of the National Medicines Agency was passed by the committee. In the Minutes you will find that Mr. Blonde, then said: "With my provisions, there will be an increase of nine hundred drugs." This was prevented by the Government, as I told you, in December 2019. But there, with a repetitive bulletin you made in March 2020, you increased the prices of low molecular weight heparins. They're very common drugs, all postoperative patients get them. And because you raised prices, in a category, for example at the ATC - B01AB10, I tell you specifically, prices increased up to 20% and 30%. Therefore, this was not something that was good for patients, and neither is the explanation that the guinea piglets due to the pandemic are afflicted and limited production, because this is not your concern as the Ministry of Health. You guys didn't come here to judge production. Deficiencies do not exist on the market either on Clexane or Innohep, or on Flaxiparine or on low molecular weight heparins. I checked it again today before I was placed. Therefore, since you do not have any shortcomings, but any shortcomings have been due to parallel exports, where you could intervene, I do not think you should insist on this provision. Exclude from the clawback this category, because something doesn't seem clear. At least, if you do not accept my reason to get this back, you need to explain why the exception of clawback of this category has to happen. In fact, you are saying in the provision that clawback can be covered and sought by social security institutions from European resources. I still don't understand that. So could the clawback that the pharmaceutical industry owes, which you have poorly set in a hundred instalments for a sector that is profitable, with great profits, seek the clawback of pharmaceutical companies, what do they have to pay from European funds? I didn't understand that. I'd like you to explain it. And that's what I'm closing down and thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u344	We are also grateful for Mr Salma's time consistency. The Parliamentary spokesperson of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakada, has the floor now, and then we will continue with Mr Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you really have no idea what to say about a hundred-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four plan, from different ministries, and they are also extremely different from one another. Like also, we really do deprive you of words, because, anyway, you are not listening to anything we say when we have to comment on the way you have managed the pandemic so far, when we have to comment on the fact that you are denying up to now that you have not strengthened the National Health System. And that's not what we tell you, it's not the Opposition, but the doctors tell you themselves, it's the people who are on the front line of battle every day with the pandemic. Indeed, one cannot find easy words to repeat - it must be the millennium at least - that you have left a huge number of workers outside of any support. They are workers in culture, foodism, tourism, retail trade, workers who are struggling all this time to survive and be able to support their family and bring a dish of food to the table. You haven't even found the least you can do to strengthen public transport, which is really health bombs and the focal point of the pandemic. Nevertheless, you have found too much money to give the media lists, which are of course coming to cover and not let them show the size of your failure. From you, too, from New Democracy, we have seen the full targeting of citizens. You're swinging the finger on young people, on the working people on the street, because they see their rights being trampled daily. But you are making sure that every day and a little more so that all the demands of the parasitic oligarchy are met and that you do so by legislating a step-by-step. We had the Squirrels. We had the shipyards in Syros and Elefsina. We had the Greek. Now, you bring an article that I really wonder. And other colleagues have expressed this before me. What position does Article 74 have in today's multi-project that we are discussing? This is an article about the transfer of Parnitha's casino to Maroussi. We expect, Minister, from you at last to tell us today in your speech, until the meeting is closed, what is the usefulness and what is the purpose of such a provision in this bill, which - in theory alone - is not practically the case - reports articles on pandemic. Of course, I cannot comment on the comment made by my colleague, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, earlier in his speech asking you to withdraw the order. To hear it from our group's office, I was really wondering whether I had listened well or not to hear something from the circuit. Well, I heard. Thank you for confirming it to me. In addition, you could not agree because in 2018 the transfer, with the Ministry of the Environment and the then Minister, Mr Stathakis, was launched in June 2019 and in the middle of the election period, at the end of the government of SYRIZA, was decided to approve the transfer of the casino to Dilaveris Estate. It is worth reminding - you know, this is a bad thing that I have from my studies having finished Philosophy, I am dealing with history, it is the issues that are left to each of his profession - that, in January 2019, the Coke and Laskaridis groups completed the acquisition of 48% of the "REGENCY ENTERTAINMENT", with 24% of each. REGENCY ENTERTAINMENT does not own the casino and Hyatt Hotel in Thessaloniki and 70% of Athens Resort Casino, with the remaining 30% controlled by a Cypriot company of Mr Laskaridis. "Athens Resort Casino" controls 51% of Parnitha's casino, with the remaining 49% being on the list of supranational immunizations. The acquisition of 48% is worth noting that it was done as part of the restructuring of the company's debt to its creditors. The bank’s main creditor was Eurobank and its bonded lenders, with the Kokkali and Laskaridis groups among the latter. If we go a little further back, in January 2018, we will see how the joint feminine - Laskaride began: the acquisition of the Red Group via the "INTRALOT" of 50% of the Cypriot offshore company that owns 30% of the "Athens Resort Casino". So, at the moment we're talking, 51% of Parnitha's casino stock package belongs to the two specific groups. And - I do not think I will tell you anything new - the Red Group through the 'INTRALOT' is a pioneer world in technology and production of VLTs, our well-known gaming machines, the 'fruits', which we say in the gambler. Why am I saying all this and doing all this backwards? During the same period, in January 2018, we had from the then government of Mr.Tsipras, Mr. Drasakis, Mr. Tsakalotou, a specific multi-brand plan that was passed under the Financial Adjustment Programme, where among other atrocities it included, such as electronic auctions, was the "casing" of our country. If we look at articles 357 and 358 of Law 4512/2018, which came out in FEK one day just before the start of co-operation Kokkalis - Laskaridis, we will see something that is very interesting. First of all, we will see the term of the NCAs, the casino companies, which will operate in the institutional framework of the U.S... and they will enjoy inversely a progressive tax framework, that is, the increase in profits, the reduction in the tax rate. This is article 374 of Law 4512. So to be more specific, then, we have the government's legitimacy of reducing the public's share of casino profits by about 35% in the mid-term, as was the case until then, with the 2018 Act falling to 20%, and that is the 'tank', the higher factor. For gross profits from 100 million to 200 million we go to 15%, from 200 million to 500 million to 12%, from 500 million to over 8%. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the country's 'casing' comes not with the multi-billion plan that we are discussing today, but has a long history and bears the signature of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras at the time. Why am I saying that? You will allow me to make a reference to Article 358 of this legislation, where it lays down, as the primary aim of the EAEC, the operation of a casino business, the organization, the conduct of games and the provision of services in the cultural and tourism sectors. We read a little further in the same article that the NCAs may carry out other activities if their exercise does not jeopardise their functioning, social and public interests. We see in this paragraph the whole description and delimitation of the road towards the country's complete "fuelling" as casinos as recreational, entertainment and cultures come to take a huge, most important place in the lives and daily lives of visitors. A stop on this route is - and it can't be - the transfer of the casino from Parnitha to Maroussi. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can say the opposite about the fact that the objectives of the New Democracy are clear from the outset. The objectives, namely, of fully serving the oligarchic interests against the citizens have been transparent not only in these two years, but whenever the New Democracy has managed power. To stand by for almost two years, what to begin? “HRAKLE”, “ELDORADO”, “Greek”; Next episode on this is the transfer of the casino from Parnitha to Maroussi. You are interested in the transfer and you have legislated for the transfer. But you haven't even dealt with the employees in the casino. As you have not dealt with in-depth workers, and as you should, in general terms, in the field of food and tourism. But what we must not forget is that the Mitsotakis Government is coming to complete what SYRIZA had left in the middle. As in the Memorandums, as in the country's complete "casing" you are making sure you go hand in hand. You are really New Democracy and SYRIZA the two sides of the same currency. Of course we can and must say that the New Democracy, having managed much more years of power in our country, is keeping the sceptres. But SYRIZA, even though fewer years in the government, did something, and he put it in his bite. He took it from where you guys left it, built a little longer, so that you could go on and finish it. I will close, ladies and gentlemen, with two points. First of all, I cannot refer to Mr. Curse's avengement. If you want to say 'non-renewal of the contract', say it. It's dismissal. I will certainly not dwell on the comments and words I have heard from a Member of the Governing Party. I believe that we are all judged by our actions and by our words by the citizens, who are also our final judge. I shall, however, dwell on the political attitude of the New Democracy, that of prosecuting health by a government that has not hesitated to fall so low in order to try to hide its criminal responsibilities for not strengthening the ERC for a year. I ask you, Minister, not to continue the vengeance of a doctor who is fighting every day on the frontline of the pandemic who has paid his reaction to the persecutions decided by the Commander of "Saint Savva" when he started SADs at the expense of healthal diseases. He paid it by transferring it to the Salvation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a minute of your tolerance, Mr. President. I would ask you to stop punishing and prosecuting people who give their battle to the frontline of the pandemic, they must not be punished. They must only be supported and fully respected, the respect you wanted to show that you had to them when you came out and applaud them. However, when these same people were found outside the Ministry of Health yesterday, workers from "Sava", from "Geneva", from "Thriasio" and other doctors who were outside the Ministry to protest the dismissal of Mr.Savos, what they encountered were the MATs against them, wood, pushing, chemical use. He did not accept a representative of the Ministry's leadership to see them. You must take a seat, Mr. Contozamani. These people who one day applaud them cannot the next day throw them chemicals. And I close in a minute, asking you all to bend up - other colleagues have said so before me - over the huge problem of the hundreds of forty cleaners of the Ministry of Finance. These women, although they cover all these years of constant and constant needs, are today being driven on the road. Today their contract ends and the majority of these women are close to retirement. They are women who will not be able to find work elsewhere, especially with the situation and the unemployment that prevails. That is why Merra25 has tabled an amendment to this effect, which provides for the change in the status of their contracts and for their conversion into an indefinite one. Please accept and support everyone, because we are really talking about women who have to help them, we should support them. When I was in 2015 at the Ministry of Finance, I saw them every day, until the issue was resolved, with scenes outside the Ministry. We must not look at images of this kind, because then the first step had been taken to resolve the problem. It is now time for us to legislate and allow their contracts to be turned into indefinite time, because we are talking about hundreds of forty people, whose families and their own struggles each day and fighting for tomorrow. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr Consola, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which is right to come under the urgency procedure since it is facing critical, real and pressing issues relating to the consequences of pandemics on the economic, social and health fields. And that has been described very much by many colleagues from all sides, from all sides. Arrangements are therefore introduced which are necessary for the process of gradually relaunching economic and social life. They are arrangements that are necessary, since the process of re-launching must be carried out safely and without deductions for public health. That was also stressed by the rapporteur today in this important bill that we are discussing. Yesterday we had an increased number of cases, like today, with the contagious index not to be increased, but to stabilising trends. Mr President, I do not claim laurels as an epidemiology scientist, but many are the ones who speak as experts and epidemiologists as if they were not required. They are confusing, cultivating expectations, threatening the confidence of citizens and society in the scientific community, but also in the adequacy of the state to protect citizens and public health. And we see this not only within Parliament but also outside the walls, on television, on radios, on newspapers, on society itself, on social life. The opening up of economic and social life must not be made because of the fatigue of citizens, as has been said today by some colleagues. I understand fatigue as a feeling, but I cannot see it as a tool for a discount against the most valuable and essential gift that health and human life are. The opening up of economic and social life, the start of efforts to return to normality must be made since, firstly, operational safety rules are ensured by increasing tests, traceability, containment of cases and, secondly, by ensuring that the provisions for accelerating the vaccination programme are ensured, that priorities are prioritised, such as, for example, that transport, tourism, possible tourist destinations and, of course, that which the Ministry of Health has planned for health and other vulnerable groups. However, those who raise objections to the provision that the submission of students and students to self-test is a prerequisite for participation in the educational process should realise that under these conditions it is the only, I repeat, the only condition for the opening of schools. Criticism of criticism and the position of "no to everything" is not a positive contribution at this critical juncture. The condition is that self-tests are available and operational before the opening of schools and that there are no problems at their disposal which, as the Government and the relevant ministers have already said, will be free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of vaccination is the major issue, I would say, today. From this course, a return to normality will be determined from the course of the vaccination movement. It is necessary as never before for the provision of the bill providing for the operation of vaccination centres and on Saturdays and Sundays, but also for holidays from seven in the morning to 10 in the evening. From there on, however, we must see and face the uncertainty that exists. I absolutely believe, Mr President, in the European idea. But that doesn't stop me from seeing reality. And the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the management of the European Union for vaccines cannot leave us satisfied. And we all know that. We read it, we see it, we experience it. Israel has vaccinated 52% of its population, the United States 15% of its population, corresponding to forty-eight million people, has already vaccinated 45% of its population, having built a first protection wall and Greece - which is doing far better than the other European Union countries - has fully vaccinated 4.7% of its population, corresponding to five hundred thousand fellow citizens, while the first dose has already made a thirty-five thousand, six hundred and fifty-nine citizens with elements of last week - let me correct it if we make a mistake - which corresponds to 9.7% of its population. In vaccination, there must be the main burden of effort. The Prime Minister has taken and taken positive initiatives at European level, such as the vaccination certificate. I am sure he is aware of the importance of speeding up the vaccination programme, especially at this juncture. Evidently, initiatives are needed to change Europe's speed, and that is why I am making the debate and the previous reference in relation to Europe, on the subject of vaccinations, of course, that is what it is all about. These initiatives are linked to increasing the production of vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the contents of the bill are concerned, I consider the provisions of the Business Loan Scheme to be very important for up to 90% over eight months in the 'GFYRA 2' programme to be up to 90%. It is a very important breath and development, since the instalments of free-traded professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, who support the Greek economy, will be subsidised. At this critical juncture of relaunching their activities, the measure is very important. As is also a substantial support measure, the suspension of the payments of the cheques from 1 to 30 April for the undertakings affected by the pandemic. Such measures, however, shall also be taken for the bearers of the cheques, for which the deadlines for payment of certified VAT and VAT debts are extended until 31 July. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no economy can survive and function for a long time in the context of restrictive measures on economic activity. To date, the government has allocated EUR 2 billion for 2020 and is going to allocate another EUR 14 billion to 2021, a figure that may be increased. We must speak to the citizens in the language of the truth. The path of populism is easy. The resources available, however, are not inexhaustible. The economy needs to be relaunched in terms of security. It is not an easy equation, but it requires an increased index of responsibility from all of us. The government has responsibility, but it also has the whole political system, and there is individual responsibility. We must not forget that. On the other hand, recognition of this assumption should guide us the behaviour of choices, for which we are all responsible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Efstathios Constantinidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is being discussed today in the form of the urgent draft law with regulations in the fields of health, the economy, public administration, work, justice, tourism and sport, namely, the whole range of socio-economic activity. They are self-evidently urgent because of the pandemic, which is still present, it and its consequences, and they leave no citizen unaffected. Many of the arrangements refer to extensions of measures that are already in force, but which end their reference period and require their continuation. Some are related to the new data, the vaccination, the tests to be carried out in the community and the gradual re-opening of operations. These are regulations that are coming to respond to the needs of society, which are aimed at supporting our fellow citizens and which are trying to organise the resumption of activities, in the most orderly way possible, following the many months of the restrictions imposed on measures to protect public health. It is not possible, of course, to give a detailed account of the individual provisions, but it is appropriate, even where indicative, for each citizen to be aware of the difficulty in meeting the entire range of needs and the complexity of the relaunching operation. Let me have a shape. A car is stopped for some time and you have to do a lot of things and lots of checks to put it back into circulation. The same, of course, applies not only to the state machine, but to all the activities for all natural persons but also to professionals. Of course, the state is aware of this, and that is why it is committed to providing all possible help in this direction. The indicative reference is undeniable and the urgency of the draft law is urgent. Thus, from the health sector we can refer to extensions of contracts for nurses providing home-based services, the procedure for sending medicinal products to vulnerable groups, the possibility of hiring ancillary personnel, the recruitment of personnel to the EGE and travel to cover emergencies, the extension of family doctors' contracts, the possibility of employing individuals in public hospitals, the conversion of beds to private clinics, the possibility of undertaking aircraft for the use of aeronautical patients, the delegation of services by the EGE for the examination of samples to private providers, the inclusion of uninsured and uninsured patients with chronic renal insufficiency in private hospitals and in many other procedures relating to the more direct supply of materials for health establishments, the facilitation of prescriptions and visas for referrals. The aim is for all these measures to be aimed at facilitating and eventually making the work of health workers more flexible and effective, who give titanic struggle to protect our fellow citizens. Very important are also the arrangements for the operation of vaccination centres for the seven days of the week and for the disposal of self-tests to carry out a molecular coron detection check to those responsible for classification in the Armed Forces. Both self-test and molecular control will help to protect our fellow citizens. The provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance provide for measures to be taken to assist and facilitate the further support of enterprises still affected by the pandemic. The public contribution framework for repayment of loans to enterprises, legal and natural persons affected by the coronary is broadened. It is planned to extend the repayment of securities to enterprises which also suffer these consequences. The provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Justice regulate the reopening of the courts so as to ensure the rights of our fellow citizens and, of course, to avoid assembling and suspending the payment of fees, offences and contributions required for the issue of certificates, attestations and judgments. Furthermore, it is also very important to suspend confiscation, auctioning and enforcement operations at the main residence of natural persons affected by the coronary. The arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior extend the cleaning and storage contracts of the headquarters of the ministries, hospitals, EGEI, the Independent Public Revenue Authority to meet the central needs. The possibility of holding meetings and archiving of the collective bodies of legal persons by digital means shall be allowed. The term of office of the councils and the statutes of the cultural, sporting, charitable and other associations that have not been able to carry out the antiquities has been extended, while the deadlines for calculating taxes, fees and contributions to TA I degrees have been extended. The provisions in the field of education prolong the validity of regulations relating to emergency supplies of means of hygiene, as well as administrative matters relating to the reopening of educational structures and to the facilitation of distance learning. In addition, it is envisaged that the prerequisite for the participation of students, students and students and trained in the educational process, where this is done physically, is defined as a prerequisite for the participation of pupils, students and students. The provisions of the terms of reference of the Ministry of Labour are extended by the Programme ‘COMPANY’. The possibility of extending staff contracts to prosecuting entities shall be allowed. This provision is also important. Finally, with the provisions on tourism, the Minister of Tourism is given the opportunity to appoint a competent body for the certification of tourist enterprises in compliance with the specific protocols. In this way, Greek tourism will gain a comparative advantage on the international market. The draft law to be adopted is part of the overall plan to exit the multi-level crisis that caused the consequences of the pandemic, which is essentially developed at three levels. The first and second concerns supporting and restarting economic activity and protecting social cohesion, at this time, and includes all support measures implemented throughout the health crisis. It is estimated that more than EUR 14 billion will be the cost of measures to address the consequences of the pandemic for this year alone. Support for 2020 and 2021 totalled EUR 38 billion. Only in April 1 billion euros. We hope that we are - and so the figures show - in the end, in the last cycle of this great effort and the great difficulties. Finally, we are ready to implement this whole reform programme that we have legislated in the past and with the help of the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we hope in a good future with the exit from the health crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. A legal improvement in the draft law in addition. I'm filing it in the Minutes for a year, so it can be distributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. Please take a photo and be distributed. The last speaker, Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou, from the Greek Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with fast track procedures in the face of one - in essence - a multi-project, which is beginning with the famous self-diagnostic test of coronary coronary disease COVID -19. How safe is this procedure, however, when they are not involved in health? Who guarantees that there will be no mistakes? We also see in this bill a number of extensions, which proves that there is no concrete and structured planning. "Seeing and doing." Especially with regard to medical and nursing staff, that is at least unacceptable. Of course, extensions are also seen in something else very dear to you, in ensuring the adequacy of personal hygiene equipment with direct assignments. When it comes to specific interests, that's where you're first. Of course, we have clear reservations about the amount of compensation and its use of hospital equipment. Wherever you want, you leave them in general and vaguely. We have said so, we say it, and we still say that there are no surges in health. Filled with the ICUs and you still play with the health of Greek citizens. But you are not playing with the media payments for the national vaccination campaign, which you are putting into absolute priority, since you are integrating them into the present. That's how you show us your priorities. The same applies to the legalisation of the costs of the Ministry of Health's central service, which, by way of derogation from the provisions governing commitments and payments. And you call it unrefractory. In many of the articles in this House, we do not see the urgency being present. It is one of these that concerns the licenses of doctors who are involved in voluntary activities, which is, in fact, reasonable, but timely. Furthermore, you say that all private clinics with a maternity service department, irrespective of the time they issue their licence to establish and operate, must have at least one portable thermostat. Is that just one condition? On what criteria was it chosen? The article on the organisational aspects of the EEAS is also a timely one. You are interested in the issues of the special advisers - collaborators of the EEA Commander and not in the important health-critical issues, and this is eloquently unacceptable. In order to regulate the EEAS’ dues to service providers, we express our reservations as to whether and whether this is a possible attempt to cover irregularities. Incomprehensible is also the netting of cash available to dependency prevention and the promotion of psychosocial health, which are offset by the grant for the operation of each prevention centre by the State budget. As regards the public contribution to the repayment of business loans to borrowers affected by COVID, it is necessary to provide clarification as to whether only business or business loans or all loans are covered. The 20% reduction in the turnover of the calendar year 2019 should not exist. The possibility of a reduction does not in any way mean that today the operator or free trader in question can live. At such a difficult time, when pandemic reaps human lives and hurts thousands of people, you are coming - you are telling us - to suspend auctions up to 31-5-2021 for the financially affected by the pandemic. Do you realize how close this date is? Is it possible for these people to be orthopaedic in such a short time? Because, if you believe it, you are completely out of Greek reality and what happens to the daily lives of these people. It is not reasonable to regulate the exercise of municipal police responsibilities in municipalities in which it does not exist or has an inadequate staffing, since it allows administrative staff to be appointed to exercise the municipal police's powers. Is it possible for administrative officials to carry out the municipal police service to cover the gaps? So, the patches, they don't end? You refer to the provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for an extension of its competence arrangements on matters of temporary supply of personal hygiene or collective protection and provide for the extension of until 31 July, inter alia, of distance learning at the HEIs, secondly, the supply of all appropriate means of individual hygiene or collective protection from the dispersion of the coronary and thirdly, the supply of all kinds of sanitary material, etc. In other words, you're telling us that the entire academic year is missing. A year for which thousands of students paid rent, especially if they studied outside their base, without living their homework. If anything, these students’ families must be supported. It is also provided for as a prerequisite for the participation of students, students, students and trainees in the educational process, where this is carried out by living, their prior screening of illness from the CVID -19. We can't force students and students to run tests to participate in the educational process. Didn't you say it wasn't transmitted by the kids? As regards the transfer of teachers to a lower-class sector, in essence, the teacher transferring to a lower-class sector is degraded in terms of degrees and economics. The teacher's consent is, of course, required, in which case this arrangement may serve some photographically. We in the Greek Solution have said and will continue to say it until we have heard that it is impossible for the health space to be treated with carefreeness and haste. The serious problems of public health are not solved so and they are at your disposal our targeted proposals for the management of the pandemic. Finally, we must mention at every opportunity the need to motivate our six hundred thousand Greek fellow citizens who left our country in the previous years of the memoranda in order to return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, too. It has been asked by a colleague, in particular Mr Blucho, to take the floor for two minutes. There is no provision, because it was said in the morning and voted in the morning. And I saw that, if I give the floor, I have to be fair and give the floor everywhere. That is why I shall propose - as long as the two minutes are not four, only on this condition - that I give everyone from two minutes to be fair. Only on this condition will I be able to give the floor. Mr. Blucho, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, thank you. I wouldn't have to, but I want to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u356	A small tolerance up to three minutes. Two, I'll charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u357	I'll be very brief. We must in general but also prevent people from being assembled and disassociated by extreme and foggy populism. What do I mean? This hypothesis, addressed by my colleague earlier, is a servant of the National Health System for twenty years. And if anything distinguishes him, it is the absolute respect for his patient and the public health system and, therefore, respect for the workers of this system who are fighting, the real fighters. You probably didn't realize any of the terms I used. You are talking about aid with thousands of recruitments, as though it is an unqualified staff! That's absolutely specific, and that's in a shortage. I'd like to specialize in this. Thousands of ICUs and thousands of recruits. What's more unreal? Either way, many IF beds have also been opened and have been allowed to develop IF beds and under differentiated conditions to ensure the possibility of intubations. But it's clear. A sufficient number of qualified personnel are required for each IF bed. But how does this staff turn out? For doctors? A further two-year specialisation. For nurses? Serious attention to the subject, in order to obtain the relevant adequacy, since our system has never created substantial conditions of organic specialisation and since a large proportion of the nursing staff belong to the PPC category. And these ICUs first, I respect them in my clinical practice. It is reasonable to ask whether existing and qualified people are serving the already existing needs of the system. On the free market there is a minimum number, either outside the system or in private employment, not a large number. Well, populism at this level doesn't fit and it's not allowed. That's the shame. Thank you, Mr President, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Bored has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, I would like to say that the New Democracy MEP from Magnesia, whose name he is missing, has not been as well known as Herostratos, who had burned the temple, to be known - what he has achieved is to make it clear that, for the first time in recent years, we have dismissals for political revenge. This is not a political disapproval or political criticism. Mr. Kontozamanis who now reads 'the Graphas' knows that the government has been put into dangerous shame by moving on to such redundancies with political motives. From there on, the various speakers of the New Democracy have tried to say how well the government has done in managing the pandemic. He did so well, people don't want to talk about it. He does everything, from the dispersal of toxicity to the division, to turn the conversation elsewhere. So well he did, he doesn't want to be discussed in the world. And not just that. The government is serving through an unprecedented propaganda in the attempt to cultivate a false conscience to the Greek people. He wants to convince the Greek people that it's not what he lives for, but it's a parallel universe. This is a communication capsule, in which he thinks the Greek people are closed and that the Greek people cannot escape from there. He'll escape from this capsule! At some point it will be over - I do not know after how many extensions you will have to make in various ways - and the pandemic and then the Greek people will decide soberly about each other's things. And it goes too far for the New Democracy to talk about a lack of responsibility in opposition. Apparently, he judges the odds himself. Apparently, he wants to talk about rope in the hanger's house. We haven't even imitated her to the minimum in the toxic opposition she had, in death. I don't want to remind you of certain adventures in which he was engaged in this sport. Finally, Mr President, I would like to speak on the subject of the amendments. There are many times, to say the first article and the second one, in the amendment. You may agree with one article and disagree with the other. Why should you choose what you don't want to choose? That is what Mrs Kerameau is doing with the amendment she has tabled and we do not have the opportunity to say 'yes' to what we agree and 'no' to what we disagree. And finally, for the casino, I want to say that we do not deny that we are in favour of transport. We are simply saying no in this urgent procedure. And that is not even urgent here. We need to discover a new term that characterises this process. We also say that this should be done after consultation and in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm not going to get into the confrontation procedure between Officership and Coupling. I just wanted to point out four things. Firstly, with regard to Article 1, which concerns the rapid test. With the legislation you have submitted, it seems that you are removing the control and recording of the results from pharmacists. One is that. Secondly, as far as Article 2 is concerned, the norms of Article 2 are concerned, and something has been wrong with you. It seems that the changes you bring are probably not clear and I would like clarification on this particular article. For self-tests I mean. Because self-tests from now on will enter our lives and there will have to be specifications and there will have to be a credibility on how the competitions are to be conducted. Because now you may have taken a lot of five to ten million self-tests. Tomorrow you're going to open another competition and there's gotta be clear terms. A third point I would like to raise is how vaccination centres are formed. In Article 38, if I'm not mistaken, along with the TE nurses, you are now putting TE, but you also put midwives, to go to the vaccination centres and, apparently, react. There is a question, because they are closing down all centres, whether they are pregnancies or pregnancies that monitor pregnant women. You should see this again. And one last thing, and I'll close, so I won't get far. For MS, it appears that nephrologists are decreasing by one doctor in each chronic dialysis unit. Where there should be three, there's two. One is that. And the second thing I want to point out to you, because the Greek Nephrologic Society is not in line with this, it is after what you are proposing, after one month, since there is no interest, the doctor, the cardiologist, who will be taking over to the chronic dialysis unit, should be trained, as proposed by the Greek Nephrologers Association for six months. That's what you're looking at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, too. I see that the other rapporteurs do not want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u364	Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I would not have taken the floor if this morning what was said by the Step of the House by Mr Blucho was not really completely insulting to the medical world. And I would like the Minister, who I imagine will speak today, because we have not heard him, to tell us whether he agrees with the following phrase. I remind you, Minister. Mr. Bluchos said: "The imperial philosopher Diocritos had emphatically noted that there are two kinds of knowledge, Mr. Xanthi," addressing Mr. Xanthos, the former minister, "one genuine and the other, the dark one. Evidently, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Great, and also of the Eleonian Response, have not escaped, Mr President, 'You have chosen the path of the second, the illegitimate and the dark. You probably don't want to recognize the real problem. For example, it's important here, "it's not the field of opportunityal action, as you think, to be exhausted in terms of social employment, with unskilled or other staff. Where did you see these?’ And I ask the assistants are unskilled? What my colleague has said about the medical world!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u366	I didn't say that. You misinterpreted what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u367	That's exactly what you said. There's in the Minutes, I read it to you. So instead of bowing to the greatness of the first liners, what are you doing? You avenge them and mark your stand with Mr. Curse's vengeance. You were asked before by my colleague from the JRC, Minister, are you insisting? And it is true that today in the courts the Minister of Health from the Chamber was outside, and what does that mean? Was he an adversary? So that's a vengeful attitude, isn't it? What else is it? The applause, what was it? The TVs? Was it another hypocrisy? Was it another communal portrayal of what you've flaming on us? Substantial, Minister! Substances and commitments! How many do you want patients, cases, casualties to get serious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u368	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, may I ask Mr. Kontozamanis a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u370	Sure, you can. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Contozamani, why are you sending them to vacate the Archangel of Rhodes to stimulate domestic tourism? It had also been done in Aetolocarnania, a hundred thousand from Agrinio you sent them to Aitolikos and Thermos. Why? Have tourists started coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u372	Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that, in order for there to be an elementary consensus and to be able to reach agreement, I should like to remind all of us of some basic things based on the rules of common sense and experience. We're experiencing, the whole planet is experiencing, a pandemic. What does pandemic mean? "Pan" and "mum" are an epidemic that spreads rapidly on a global scale and threatens almost all of the planet. How do you treat a pandemic? It has been fully and from the outset made clear that it is a combination of forces to deal with pandemic and it must be assimilated by everyone. First of all, pandemic is treated with respect to minimum personal protection measures, and these are the measures we have taken, the simple measures that have been made to us in the first wave of the pandemic. It was a matter of conduct, particularly the successful management of the pandemic, namely public health, distances, masking and washing of hands. And we learned to make these automateds and become a habit, as an inviolable and self - inviolable part of our daily lives. The pandemic is also dealt with by a design and organisational health system, which comes to deal with cases where personal protective measures for whatever reason have not been able in some cases to avoid infection with the virus. This was mainly done in the second - and now is the wave of pandemic. And there was planning, we said it from the outset that we planned on the basis of the most extreme scenario, and we did it. We all realise that worldwide no health system can deal with a pandemic alone. Do you know, for example, buildings that can withstand an earthquake of 15 Richter? There is no health system that can face a pandemic. And we saw what happened in the other states. More rich states, more modern states with more organized health systems have collapsed, which has not happened here, in Greece. We saw patients crossing from one country to another. I would like to repeat once again that the National Health System has endured thanks to the design that has been, thanks to the over-representation of health workers, doctors, all staff and, of course, the actions taken before the beginning of the pandemic, because we saw that it was coming and prepared properly, in actions that were taken to strengthen it, in financial resources, in human resources and equipment. He's on his limit, we've said it. We have exceeded our powers, but it is up and provides health services to all citizens. In no case can I accept anyone's claim that the health system is exclusively for the purposes of coronary management at this time alone. All incidents are handled. In hospital emergency departments, 50% to 55% of the attractions concern cases, which are not COVID and treated. Specialized hospitals, such as oncology, pediatrics, psychiatrics, are facing these incidents. Unfortunately, what has been said today is confirmed: the opposition and especially the Civic Opposition act as if the pandemic were not to end. Cultivates a climate of toxicity and hostility and undermines the only goal we have at the moment: to finish an hour before the pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u374	With what you're saying, you're insulting us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u375	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u376	You undermine this national effort and insist on destruction. I will say it again, I said it yesterday in committee. You are trying not to show your sadness because we have done so far. Fortunately, society is fully aware of what would have happened if SYRIZA and those who are screaming and singing today were at the wheel of the country. I said and insist that by false and populism you undermine this national effort. You referred to the self-test, and today, since you have not received this funnyness - I would describe it as 'SIEMENS', you have come to tell us that these tests are not CE markings. Do you not know that the ‘SIEMENS’ test is marked CE? How did we make the specifications? Without CE marking? Let's forget that. The self-diagnostic specifications are provided for in European legislation and specific conditions are met in order to characterise these tests as self-diagnostic and to allow them to be released. What did we do in order to bring them to the Greek market soon? In the standards we have made such a licence in another European Member State, and in particular in Germany, which has a specific list of licensed products. And I come to answer your second question, Mr Poula. You referred to the layout for the circulation of the tests. We have made a legislative improvement and added the EOF to enable the EOF as the competent authority of the European Union to be able, if one comes and filed with the National Medicines Agency, to be granted a self-test marketing authorisation. What else did you do today? Since you did not get that funnyness that I told you about the tests, you come and tell us that it bothered you that a competent public authority, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, did the contest. So everyone's problem was who did the contest? Let me tell you something. The contract of competition was approved by the Court of Auditors today. The self-test - you said it too, we say it, but you don't want to believe it - come as an additional action in the strategy we have for testing in Greece. They're coming to complete the fast tests and molecular tests, which are over fifty thousand a day. So we have the possibility of having a clear picture of the epidemiological situation in the country. Again Greece is taking the lead, because we are one of the first countries to use, people will use it. That's why they're called self-test, individual, self-diagnostic. There are procedures to see what happens with the results of these tests. There is also international experience, a study by Yale - to which Mr Lippes referred and we have said so - which shows that these tests can limit the spread of the virus. This is therefore a complementary action in our strategy. Mr Poulas raised a question with regard to Article 1 of the Pharmacopoeia Act. The pharmacies will make self-test available to citizens, as we have said, free of charge. To date the fast tests, the rapid test could not be sold from the pharmacy counter. This article allows the sale of rapid test to pharmacy. We have made this legislative improvement, which is about the possibility of pharmacists registering data, because it is a professional right and cannot be regulated by a ministerial decision. It will sell rapid test separately in the pharmacies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u377	Buy them who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u378	The world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u379	And do it on his own?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u380	No, Mr. Poula. You're a doctor. When someone does a quick test or a molecular doesn't pay for it? He can take it from the pharmacy this time and do it to his doctor. I'm saying that to clarify your question. Secondly, it has been heard many times in the Chamber today that we are unprepared. Let me also disagree with that. Does the more doubling of intensive care units show a lack of preparation? We received five hundred fifty-seven intensive beds in July 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u381	Are you bringing an amendment now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u382	Don't interrupt! Please! [[Noise in the Chamber]] You do not want anything to be solved, that is, in this crisis! Don't interrupt! Please, everybody! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. We received five hundred fifty-seven intensive beds in July 2019. A hundred and fifty beds, which did not work, either because there was no staff or because there was no equipment, worked too, and we developed other beds and we continue and have more than doubled the availability of intensive care units. What else did we do? We didn't cut ribbons for communication reasons. When the intensive care units operated, the new units were fully staffed by medical, nursing and other personnel needed for their operation. Four hundred more doctors are currently serving in intensive care units. And because you talked about the anticipation, I have here newspaper cuts showing what was going on with the anticipation at the SYRIZA intensive care units, which we only had one simple flu to deal with. The numbers were multiple from today's. These are anticipations we are managing successfully. Until someone enters the intensive care unit, the necessary respiratory support is provided. Thirdly, reference was made to the fact that the government did not carry out the necessary recruitments. Our tongue has haired to talk about these recruitments. I would remind you: two thousand five hundred seventy-four four authorisations of permanent medical staff during the twenty-month governing of the New Democracy, two thousand seven hundred fifty-four and four-and-a-half years of SYRIZA permanent staff. As far as the rest of the staff are concerned, the numbers are well known. We said at the beginning of the pandemic about two thousand ancillary personnel. We have exceeded eight thousand recruits to ancillary staff and serve more than ten thousand auxiliarys to the health system of various specialties, because we have extended their contracts for 2021 to cover the needs and shortcomings of the past, which we all recognise has the health system. Of course, these also come to add the recruitments from the AACC notices. Allow me to take down another myth, the one that Civic Opposition uses, that New Democracy does not believe in the public health system. I really think it disturbs you that we have strengthened the public health system, which the public health system has endured in the pandemic, which the National Health System is trusted by the Greek people now, according to measurements that have been made recently, by increasing the public's confidence in what we have demonstrated every day that we are strengthening the National Health System and supporting it. And you keep talking about PPPs and privatisations. Because it says the word PPP contains the letter 'yes' for 'private'. We have explained thousands of times that PPPs are financial instruments. Instead of getting a loan, we are making PPPs in order to improve infrastructure in the health system, in order to improve the provision of services. And at this point, your distress is not hidden, because the health system, the public health system has responded adequately and fully at this time. It has also been said that the measures have failed. I would ask you one question: Can you imagine what would have happened if we hadn't taken these measures? Is there any awareness of what would happen in the country? Do you see what is happening in the rest of Europe? The measures have therefore succeeded. And of course, at the moment, we are managing a wave, which is mainly due to the mutations of the virus, which is very hard in our country, as is in the rest of the countries. There were also a number of things that were heard about the vaccination of the population. Our country has fortunately participated in the common European procurement. We were aware that there were problems with vaccine delivery, but the planning of the vaccinations, and according to the traditions we are waiting for, enables us to say that in the summer we will have achieved the immunity wall and have managed to inoculate this critical proportion of the population and the vulnerable groups that it needs so that our economy returns to normality. And I would remind you that today our country is the sixth country in Europe with a fully vaccinated population, in other words both of them. And I would also remind you that last November the Chief of Officerial Representation said: 'Soonly the vaccine will not come at the end of December. Do at least in the world the influenza vaccine, which exists.’ There has also been mention - and I shall end, Mr President - of the Russian vaccines and the others and that approved vaccines must be released. But, of course, we bring the approved vaccines into the country and they are circulating and of course the vaccines that have been approved by the competent European Regulatory Authority, the European Medicines Agency, come. Cooperation with the private sector. We were accused of prepaying the private sector in order to have intensive treatment units at our disposal. What's to pay for? Intensive therapy beds in the private sector, we have taken, fill at the same time. We've got more of our original programming. In Attica, only two hundred and thirty three available intensive treatment beds in the private sector have a hundred and seventy-four as a state and the rest are occupied by the private sector. Everything that's empty fills right away. The private sector is currently managing beds, non-COVID incidents, so that we have more available beds in the public sector to deal with the pandemic and because of the public sector's experience. Of course, at the moment the health system is uniform. Public sector, private sector, the structures of the Armed Forces have joined forces to tackle the pandemic successfully. And finally a reference to drugs. We've said it again. From the first moment no medication was lacked that needed coronary patients. I would like to say this once again that our country is taking part in the common European procurement for monoclonal antibodies. We have the positive opinion of the European Medicines Agency on one of them. We will also take this, and we will take the rest that the European Medicines Agency will deliver, and we will have them available at the same time, as the rest of Europe, as was the case with vaccines. And allow me one final comment, because Mr Salmas referred to excluding heparins from clawback. This is done in order to ensure that these products are suited to the Greek market. These are products which are not easy. Those who are doctors know that the raw material of heparin comes from pork mucus and global production depends on China and because of African swine fever - it is worth mentioning - the majority of pigs have been killed in China and there is a global shortage. And we do so in order to ensure the necessary quantities that our country needs. There's no challenging demand for heparins. They're specifically the people who take heparins. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all fighting a great deal together in the National Health System in order to defeat this pandemic. We need seriousness and let me say that old-fashioned micro-policy in the field of public health does not have room. I will call on all opposition parties at the moment to impose a little on them as serious and responsible as society expects from opposition. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u386	Do you want anything procedural, Mr. Lambroulis? Because I'll settle the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u387	That is not a point of order, Mr President. The Minister reminded me that he was committed to answering, when we specifically asked him two questions in relation to what was said by a colleague from Magnesia for the doctor of "Saint Savva". We have asked whether the Minister agrees with what was said by the Member, Mr Maraveya in particular, and whether the doctor in question, who is today - is being fired, will be hired. He said he'd answer the end, and we didn't get an answer. We're waiting for him to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u389	It's understood. He'll talk again. Mr. Skourlet, what exactly do you want? Only if it's a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u390	It's a procedure. The process is over, if I understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u391	It will be completed when I say 'the debate has been concluded'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u392	Wait a minute, Mr. President. At the time the Minister was finishing, an amendment is coming. It's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u393	Are you particularly surprised?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u394	I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u395	Haven't you seen this House again where you ruled?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u396	I'm very surprised, and I'm asking that she withdraws...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u397	I'm sorry, but everyone sees us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u398	...as the government's last intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u399	...they hear us, they judge us, they compare us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u400	Of course, they compare us. Withdrawal, this thing can't be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u401	And you know what else, Mr. Skourlet? I am now a Greek citizen, and this morning I saw some of you defending what is happening with this amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u402	First of all, it is not right what you are doing, do not let me finish. That is not what you are honoured, Mr President. You won't let me finish. I'd be done. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u403	Listen to something. Before and above all, I am a Greek citizen, and I worry about my children, about those next to me, and I look at issues that all of you in the morning shows are defending.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u404	You are President, you are not a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. You're President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u405	Yes, I'm president. Of course I am!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u406	Right now, the process is over. There's no one else. Neither will Mr Georgiadis obviously, who came in retrospectively, take the floor, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u407	Let me know her much better than I do. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u408	I call for this amendment to be withdrawn at the moment. It can't be done. The expedited...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u409	Now I won't judge. I will give the floor, as I have the right, to the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, in order to place it on the amendment under a general number 827 and a special 146, in particular for Article 7. Then the Deputy Minister for Health will take the floor in order to place himself on the whole of the amendments, which he accepts, who he does not accept and who he wants to answer anything. If you want the floor after the Minister, I will give you the floor for clarification, Mr Skourletis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, thank you very much. With regard to the comment made by Mr Skourlets on the amendment, I should like to say that we are in an urgent procedure to deal with urgent issues. As you will see from this amendment, all seven articles - I will talk to you about Article 7, for the other six, my colleague - are not just urgent but urgent. I really would like you, Mr Skourletis - I do not know if you or Mr Bored Members of Parliament - are to tell us if you disagree with any of them, and if SYRIZA wants to withdraw any of them. Because everything in here is immediate things that we now need, immediately. for the pandemic. And if this is not understood in a House with what we are living for, I beg your pardon, but we have lost all sense of parliamentary dialogue. If, however, you say that this article is not or is something else, you can tell us and the Greek public will listen if you do not want to take doctors if you do not want to make a cheque, if you do not want to pay the hospitals for the extra ICUs. Now we go to Article 7, which concerns the Ministry of Development. On 1 March, a few days ago, the SETE was sent by a very urgent letter to me, to Mr Papathanassis, to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Finance, the request - which we considered perfectly reasonable, which is why we are bringing it in - for the immediate extension by two years of the leases of tourist accommodation, since of course the leasers are consistent with their obligations to pay rents. Why is this amendment needed? Because of the nine and a half thousand hotels we have in Greece, more than a thousand are rented. And when a hotel is rented, the one who rents it and makes its renovation and builds the hotel to rent it - usually twelve years is the duration of these leases - and pays serious costs and receives serious loans, it is impossible to budget for virtually two of the twelve years. Because now, as we all understand, in 2020 Greek tourism fell short of the year 2021, even if we achieve a much better performance than 2020, which we want and we are working to achieve, we will certainly be far below 2019 and from a normal year, for the reasons that we all understand. Therefore, in some leases of this kind, the loss of more than two years for investments in the size of tourist accommodation is extremely serious damage. That is why we are continuing to extend by two years. That is, for the two years that have been lost, without being to blame, because of the pandemic of those who had made their business plan in a hotel, but in 2020 and 2021, things went wrong, because of force majeure, we come and say that if you are consistent with your obligations and, therefore, you are not bankrupt, to say it very simply, we automatically give you these two years that you lost, so that you can fill your investment, serve your loans, keep your jobs. This is Article 7. To conclude, too, we have two articles of the Ministry of Development, Articles 101 and 102 within the bill. One is the automatic extension of professional leases. In what way? For all those enterprises that have been closed with a government mandate, again in the same sense as I said before about tourism - there the damage is much greater and the sizes - but for the current business leases that were closed with a government mandate, one month, three months, seven months, eight months, such as focus enterprises, for example, for these enterprises, since they are consistent with their rent payments to owners, will have an automatic extension over these months. In other words, for the months which are closed, the corresponding lease is automatically extended in the forward time so that these undertakings do not appear to have lost because of the State's mandate to deal with the pandemic a part of the planned revenues they had budgeted. I repeat, because POMIDA, Mr Paradias and I thank him for this, because it was fair to point it out: we have predicted that this applies to those who are consistent with their obligations and therefore we are also trying to protect the right of owners to their property, which we do not want to violate. The other article that we have, for which I also do not believe there will be any disagreement, is the extension of the irreversible and duty-free of the money of the NRP that we are giving to companies for the purchase of heating bodies, as the programme concerned has been extended, due to great demand, and therefore we are giving an extension of the possibility for businesses to take this money without confiscating it, by the tax authorities, by EFKA or banks against old debts. I do not believe that there is even one colleague who objects to these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, too. I shall now give the rapporteurs the floor in order to put them on the articles of this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u412	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u413	Would you like to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u414	Yeah. The rapporteurs will obviously be placed, but I am asking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u415	I'd love to, Mr. Skourlet. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u416	Honestly, irresponsibility is incomprehensible. Not on the basis of content, but, if these amendments are so serious, is it possible to underestimate them so much and to come to five? And do you have the requirement of an amendment with seven articles to place the parties and take responsibility for them? Who are you kidding? How do you deceive the parliamentary procedure? Tomorrow, he has a bill from the Ministry of Sports. Deposit tomorrow and check us if we are serious and responsible for placing ourselves. We refuse to place ourselves on the contents of this provision. Because irresponsibility is ultimately not only reflected in the way of legislating, it is reflected in the results of the pandemic when we have reached the eight thousand dead. I would expect Mr Kontozamanis to make his brief speech briefly not to say things which have nothing to do with reality. Mr. Kontozamani, when 80% of surgery has been deferred, which is not about other cases, then yes, the main hospitals have become a disease for COVID. You know that better. Well, confess! People want to be honest. Don't move your hand in deceptively. People in these circumstances want truthfulness so they can stand it. When his confidence in those who govern is shaken, they embroider opinions that may be scary. And you really look multiplely irresponsible in this case. What can we do? That's right! That's where your strategy led. And instead of taking responsibility, you say that responsibility is self-test, self-responsibility. Move it once again. Attack on one hand against the opposition, on the other hand against the citizens. Take responsibility! What can we do? You failed! At least now ask for the assistance of all the political forces and change the question! Because this failure translates into human lives! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u417	The bill we're discussing is urgent. The arrangements that are coming are urgent too. And this morning I listened to them in the channels by many.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u418	Like the casino? Is the casino urgent?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u419	So if you do not have time to study them, I suggest that we interrupt the meeting until 20: 00, to complete your study.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u420	For tomorrow! For tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u421	Listen, Mr. Skourlet. As we have learned from this House for many years, I must tell you that, under the Rules of Procedure, the emergency sittings are at a maximum of ten and are completed. So these things, while suggesting a different vote, will go next week and 'the times are not refreshed'. People are waiting, they're nervous, they're calling for solutions. Do you accept the proposal to interrupt until 20: 00?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u422	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u423	You do not accept the proposal to study better. Here you have the floor for three minutes, Mr Vartenne, to put yourself on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u424	Sure. Excuse me, I don't understand your irritation. You're presiding. What's your excitement to?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u425	You have the floor. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u426	I'm asking. What's your frustration about, Mr. President? First of all, we ask for your assistance...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u427	You have my subscription and as much as you can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u428	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I don't see it. I can't see it, honestly. Where they owed us, they also ask for the ox, that is. You're pissed at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u429	Do you want the floor, Mr. Barbert?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u430	I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u431	So you have the floor to say and judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u432	Listen to me. I really can't understand your attitude today. In other words, at the end of the Minister's speech, these amendments come here and you are asking us to speak. If that's possible! The Minister of Development came, spoke, left. And what did he say? He said two articles. Yes, sir. He did well and we'll vote for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u433	The Deputy Minister is here. The Minister had a teleconferencing, and Mr. Papathanassis is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u434	Okay, that's Mr. Papathanasis. So I say: He has brought the articles that the Minister has described to us and we will vote on them. What you're bringing today, at five and no time to read and the President comes here and suggests new solutions, what prevented you from bringing them in properly? What do you want to do with that? You want to expose us? Unless your inability has exceeded the ceiling, you've overcome excellence, i.e., and go for a ton. If we assume you're not capable of bringing it, we don't assume, because it's elementary. The Minister described to us a need of which he was fully aware even when he brought the articles. We have accepted this procedure, Mr President, which is not even urgent, and this is something that the current government has invented. We accepted it with our protests. And now it comes in this process and you are not helping us, Mr President? At least don't ask us why. We had to be upset. They took us out of our clothes in this process, to listen to the end of Mr Contozamani's speech, who has already afflicted us, rather than giving any elementary answers. You have no, Mr Contozamanis, either the stature or the right to speak in this way to the Civic Opposition! You don't have it and you won't even have it, move our fingers and tell us that we'll be unhappy if the pandemic is over! The shame after you said, as to your abhorrence, also blushed. And I repeat, you do not stand by to address Civicism in this way! Choose another way! We opposed you in the most responsible way, and you come and you overthrow. You don't respect the Opposition. At least respect the victims of the pandemic and the pain caused by the pandemic, if you cannot do the other, and if you cannot silence yourself in front of the drama of the Greek people and express insults.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u435	Are you talking about a drama that you're calling them at gatherings?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u436	Do not interrupt, Minister. You'll take the floor when needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u437	I answered you about this part of your speech, about this abhorrence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u438	Half of you responded!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u439	Mr Baroness, continue on the subject I gave you the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u440	The world wasn't lost to come tomorrow. And don't tell me it's irrelevant. Why, are the other articles related to health articles? He'll come tomorrow! Is the world gone by tomorrow? Let us stick to an elementary procedure. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u441	Thank you. Mr Poulas has the floor, then Mr Lambroulis, Mrs Bakadima and the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. There will be a possibility for everyone. Only if you want, please, hold on to the three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just say two words. First of all, when this amendment comes to nothing but five, it shows that there is no serious government. Unfortunately, in the way you legislate, you are showing us now that there is a matter in the government. These are problems that you know about. You've known all these days. And you're coming over for the last minute to bring them in? It means the government doesn't work, it doesn't work. You have issues. It is not possible to bring things into the last minute for compulsory vaccination, for mandatory coronary control. This is where democracy is concerned. These are serious things. You have also brought the fine regulation on private clinics, which you are committed to paying, and you say that it will also be irresponsible and tax-free. We in this process will not participate in this amendment. We will not participate in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u443	Thank you. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u444	Mr President, I think that as long as the time goes, we are in danger of having an even more urgent amendment of a ministerial or ministerial nature, as you would like to say. We denounce the procedure with regard to the amendment, Mr President. It's unacceptable. And we say that this amendment will abstain from the vote. The amendment has already been included in the list that has been shared for the vote that will begin shortly. So we will abstain from this and express our strong protest. And, of course, this will also be said in the Conference of Presidents. The second thing I would like to say and which I will repeat is that I expect the Minister to answer the questions that we have asked him and promised that he will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis, too. Mrs Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, we too cannot say that we are dissatisfied with this whole situation which is constantly repeated and, at the last minute, to bring us amendments. Minister, we have seen that you want the test to be compulsory. But it's just that we want to make a trace of the virus, and we need to put the tests on it. I do not think that is a matter of the last minute. As a Greek solution, we are opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, too. Mrs Bakadima has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u448	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is not the first time you've done this. You did so in the multi-brush plan, when you last brought in - and we were here waiting for the last minute - the amendment with a piece of the vaccination plan. You are now doing so at the last minute, without having time to see the amendment and to put it as it should be, a similarly important amendment. I'm trying to figure out why you're doing this, and I'm honestly telling you that I'm not. You could've been nice to bring her tomorrow. It was not the first time, after all, that you would bring an amendment which was irrelevant to the bill that we were discussing. We as a PARTA25, as we had said and denounced last time, will do so today and abstain from voting on this amendment. Now stop stepping through the principle of good legislation in the final state that you yourself have legislated. You legislate yourself, you yourself are being destroyed. It won't make the Mera25 accomplice and will not participate in this game.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Blucho, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. In a clearly justified urgency procedure, I think we are all judged by the overreactivity that we are experiencing. But it is now permanent in this space and forever noisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, too. Parliament's representative of the Change Movement has also called for the floor, Mr Katrinis. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. I endorse what Mrs Bakadima said. We, anyway, as a Change Movement we left the process when it came again, half an hour before the session, the package of articles on the vaccination strategy. My colleague, Andreas Poulas, said so. I would like to say, however, Mr President, that it is insulting for the National Representation to come five minutes, literally, before such amendments are concluded. I accept, Minister, that the commander of the Ophthalmiteri resigned on Tuesday morning that you tabled the bill and brought it as an emergency. However, I cannot understand this: today, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, the President of the Republic, went and was toured by Mr Chardalia at the Embolism Center of the Greek Republic. Three days ago, Mr. Mitsotakis went to the Great Peristerio Vegetable Center. Do you claim that you have a vaccination strategy in the country when you bring in with Article 4, in this way, an amendment to establish 10-position vaccination centres? Do you want to convince us and the Greek people that you have a vaccination strategy that you even commemorate with these kinds of visits? I think it is not a serious process and you cannot convince anyone that you really have a specific strategy that will lead to the greatest possible outcome. Mr President, I do not think it is a question of waiting for the amendment to be considered for one hour. It is a question of whether the Government respects the National Representation and the procedure or the altar of the U.S. and the U.S. government feels that it can even bring in provisions that actually reveal its own gaps.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. I don't see anyone else who wants to take the floor. The Minister, Mr Kontozamanis, has the floor in order to place himself on the amendments - and I quote them on the Minutes - with a general number of 819 and a specific number of 138, with a general number of 826 and a specific number of 145, with a general number of 827 and a specific number of 146. The Minister will close today's sitting, according to the way he thinks, in reply to a number of questions raised by colleagues. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform you that we accept ministerial amendments number 819 and number 138, number 826 and number 145 and number 827 and number 146. As far as certain questions have been raised, Mr Lambroulis, thankfully we are, we are living in rule of law. I believe that anyone who thinks that his rights are being violated can appeal to justice in order to find their point of view. Mr Baroness, I have used words that have been said by you, by the party of Officerial Vice-Population, such as: 'You have brought the disaster'. I have not accused you of more than that, apart from what you have said, of bringing disaster and having collapsed, etc. I have said so many times, but I will say it again, because the repetition is a mother of learning: Mrs Constantopoulou has said what would have happened in the country if SYRIZA ruled and had the pandemic. Mr. Skourletis, as far as the surgery and other things we've done to the health system are concerned, we haven't found the wheel. They happen in other countries of the world. See, make a navigation online and you'll see that it's not the first time we've done what we've done. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u455	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Urgent arrangements for the protection of public health against the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19, development, social protection and the reopening of courts and other matters" is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u456	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u457	Following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Urgent arrangements for the protection of public health against the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19, the development, social protection and the reopening of the courts and other matters’, was accepted by a majority, in the first place, of the articles and as a whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u458	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u459	The requested authorisation was granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-31-S1-commons.u460	With the consent of the House at 19.50' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 1 April 2021, at 10.00' on the subject of the work of the House, legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the revised, with effect from 1 January 2021, the Antidantong World Organisation Code".
