ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering today's agenda, let me first inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 29 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 970-23-2021 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The society of Boeotia requires clear answers about what is to come with the General Hospital of Thebe". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Immediate need to protect citizens from noise pollution in the municipalities of western Athens". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 977/24-7-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Government promotes as a strategic investment wind stations in Karysia, Evia, for which it has received a letter from the European Commission." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilias Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The anti-corrosion and flood protection projects have not yet been launched after the fire in Gerenia Ores". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 7208/11-6-2021 asked by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government must publish the mortality rates in all the intensive treatment units of the country." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 2615/404/13-12-2020 was asked and an application for the filing of documents by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Western Athens will also breathe the burning of the waste of the Centre from the new Waste Processing Unit (MEA). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "The upgrading of the school, the strengthening of educational and other provisions". I would like to inform you of this: we have calculated the times by taking account of the interruption we will make to waive immunity from Mr Velopoulos. As long as we're relatively disciplined, I think we'll be done with it shortly before 19.00. In brief, I tell you that they have been tabled by SYRIZA and by the Communist Party of Greece with roll-call requests, one on the one hand, the other on both articles, 56 and 185. These are SYRIZA's colleagues. So in a relatively reasonable time we will have closed on the third day of the meeting. We will now begin with an pending we had from yesterday, my friend Giannis Amanatidis from SYRIZA. Then we will normally continue with Mr. Ioannis Pappas. The State Secretary, Mr Zetta Makri, will take the floor and we will continue the list. Mr. Amanatidis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Another landslide on the foundations of our country's educational system. The aim is to categorise schools and to weaken teachers and teachers' associations. Democracy, dialogue and pedagogical freedom are going, partitionism, insecurity and authoritarianism are coming. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two options in education policy. One option is that of the major democratic educational reforms in Europe and the tradition of Greek educational municipalism, the one which serves the universal unified educational system, accessible to everyone, that is, quality public education, education of the uinary values in which everyone has access, inclusive of income, race, sex, religion and special needs, and which is an effective counterweight to social inequality. The other option is the neoliberal, the one serving your bill. Education is offered as a service and is subject to market laws. The havers can buy it. Unexpected people are enough in a low-standard school. This policy leads to the private education premium for public education. Public school and university are not abolished, but they are abandoned in their luck. In this way, it seeks to attach the quality of education to the income position of families. As a consequence, school and education are easier to become instruments for the reproduction of inequalities, social separation tools. The vision for education that is currently being promoted by the main international organisations is the organization of a elementary teaching until the age of 15 or 16, focusing on basic skills and individual learning. This makes it possible to go hand in hand with the achievement of the minimum educational objectives required by all citizens, workers and consumers, with a desire to reduce costs. The following years of study will be devoted to segregation in clear hierarchical directions. This "vision" - and put it in introductory form - is often justified in the name of infamous modernisation and the stipulation of a sense of law, and in your bill, of course, as an upgrade and strengthening. In the context of neoliberalism, an educational policy is planned and implemented that seeks to give the school the basic characteristics of a competitive business. It is characteristic that the International Trade Standard ISO 9000 is used as a certificate of quality to satisfy pupils and parents, who are treated as consumers - customers. After all, it was clear a few years ago that Mr. Mitsotakis, when from the step of the 10th Conference of New Democracy on how he meant his own reform in the field of education, said: "A education based on healthy competition between multiple options, always on the basis of the quality of the services provided, thinking first of all of the students, the real clients of education." Of course, it concerns this government that, in a climate of subjectivity and compliance with the requirements of customers, parents and guardians and school directors, in a climate of anxiety and tension, in freedom and competition, without cooperation and communication, without collectiveness and solidarity, teachers are very difficult to form free, democratic and critically thinking citizens, with values and ideals, citizens who respect diversity and cooperate, seeking not only the staff but also the collective benefit. The Government of New Democracy has worked on pandemic to take reactive measures both to the detriment of education and society. There are two surveys, one is the "Tradeing and Privatization of Education in the context of COVID -19", the World Trade in Education "EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL", which clearly shows that the government's efforts are to renounce their responsibilities for funding education, and the other is from the University of London for secret privatisation in public education. So educational reform becomes a vehicle to reflect more on the competitive and consumer orientation of our societies. In both cases, the trend towards privatization of public education is secret, camouflage from the language of educational reform or is smuggled as modernisation. Ladies and gentlemen, for the implementation of a substantial, Minister, a genuine educational reform requires long-term strategic planning. It is no coincidence that over the last few years more than ten legislations have failed and failed because there has been no long-term strategic planning with dialogue and consensus. There is a need for systematic and long-term research by experts to evaluate and highlight the weaknesses of the educational system. Do you have such studies? The outcome should be based on a wide-ranging social dialogue with representatives of all educational actors, organisations, parents, teachers, students, universities, so that the final choices and measures decided to obtain the broadest possible social consensus. I would say to you that there must be a trial application to a limited number of schools, to be evaluated following a scientific check on effectiveness, to be improved, and then to expand their generalisation. What you are missing from the bill at the moment, and that is why I call it mortal, is that, even if we are planning, and in this way, an excellent educational reform, which you have not done, is doomed to failure, if the teachers who will be invited to implement their guidelines have not understood them, have not embraced them and have certainly not had the necessary education, educational, educational and professional competence. Here you have the exact opposite: all educational organizations and parents together, who don't call them, are across the street. It is characteristic that since 20 April the AACC has invited you to withdraw this bill. There is a need for state support for the educational, upgrading of prestige and recognition of the important project. The participation of teachers in school administration is considered the most important factor in decapitating schools from the centralised model of administration, the first aim being to self-government the school unit and the final aim being to improve school efficiency. Instead, you are doing exactly the opposite, and this is not strengthening either the teachers or the internal functioning. Therefore, postmenstrual perceptions of education converge on the idea that school reforms need to respond to the labour market and thus converge in the practical sidelines of neoliberal thinking on education, and the government is trying to build the new post-modern market school on the ruins of public, mass, free school. Your bill is mortal and will be added to the body of legislation, about ten, for all the reasons mentioned earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, education is a right, not a privilege or a grace. Children's rights are collective responsibility. Public education is a key element in democratic public policy. Education is the responsibility of the state. One of the tasks of the State is to identify the objectives and objectives of the educational systems and to ensure full funding. Only you here because there are many evaluation models, you have adopted an evaluation model that has only a hierarchical structure to check the reactions to the new school landscape you want to make. So in the democratic reform of the SYRIZA, we in education - commodity, we oppose education - public good - in the education of atomicism - of benefiting from the education of uinary values, with the aim of critical awareness of the individual, which leads to his emancipation. Finally, what Theodoros Eleftherakis said in 2006: "The interaction of a truly democratic society and a corresponding democratic school, in which everyone will have the opportunity to receive the education they need, progressively, two-way and inevitably lead to better quality of school and society." That is why we are fighting school, and that is why youth, teachers and parents will impose the political, progressive, governmental change in our country, which is more necessary than ever. I want to give you two more indicators, in addition to what we said yesterday, that the trend in the European Union is twenty-five to thirty-four years old to be 50%, I will also present you with EUROSTAT's indicators, which say that the risk of poverty by level of education, when you have a university degree, we since 2014 which was for Greece 8.7%, went to 7.7%. If you have the high school diploma, from 27.2% in 2004 we took it to 22.7% and when you have a postgraduate school from 22.6% the risk of poverty took him to 18%. In these indicators, Minister, you will also be represented as a government, because EUROSTAT will regain evidence, and I hope that you will have similar results with us. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Papa from the Dodecanese, the New Democracy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a necessary definition, which we must all know, although some are familiar and especially familiar with experience. Pluralism as a political ideology and practice invokes the interests of ordinary people and uses the flattery of the people to lure it into choices that appear to be in favor of it, in fact being against it. Perhaps you have never heard of the definition of populism before, but the practice of populism, ladies and gentlemen, you know it very well, I would say perfectly well. It is what our wise people say "my old-fashioned art." The sad and unpleasant is that you choose to plunder with the major issue of education, you choose to plunder with the future of our young people, with the future of our children, consciously choose to plunder and exploit their dreams. The dreams of our country's youth are not exploited by any of us. It should be the subject of serious reflection on the whole political system. I would like to ask you all why Greece is a pig in most of the indicators relating to education and where it is at the top is for negative reasons, unfortunately. During the debate on the bill and on your public interventions, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you repeat the same criticism of the minimum import base. You obviously do not want universities to have the floor for how many and on what criteria they will be introduced into higher education. You obviously do not treat university introduction to the beginning of a long journey. You face entry to a school by the end of a journey. That is why you are opposed to the '10' base as a minimum import base. For the same reason you have no problem with the phenomenon of eternal students, a Greek patent, which is a global originality. Studying at a university had arrived to be a component of a customer logic in an informal competition for which party would put more students in schools. Let me remind you of the amendments you tabled at the time to open schools in various cities or towns to satisfy what we were saying before, your populism. You degrade with your rhetoric the alternative educational routes, such as the selection of a public IEK providing vocational training. These are solutions that have been promoted with parallel computerization, which you are undermining. It's all these situations that don't honor us as a country, but they're changing. Look, not wanting to change something and staying the same is not bad, but it is enough to say it clearly. It's your choice, it's a political choice. As long as you do not wear the cloak of progression, because that is precisely populism and bad quality populism. Let us now go to the essence of the draft law of the Ministry of Education on the upgrading of the school and the strengthening of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, with a reading of what the draft law provides for, one can easily understand its basic philosophy and the reasons why it causes you anaphylaxis. It includes concepts and values that are inconsistent with your polarity. Means such as evaluation, trust, autonomy, upgrading and freedom. Evaluation is one of the main features of the law. In our own lives, we have seen - and we all know - that anything that is not evaluated, at the end of the day is deceiving and analogizing. Assessment of teachers, therefore, at four levels within two and four years. Evaluation that promotes the creativity and good functioning of the school. Exclusion. The exclusive objective of improving knowledge, the knowledge that reaches pupils. And because many have spoken about a punishing nature of the evaluation, which, of course, is not the case, negative assessment will lead to further training and support for our teachers. The evaluation is common practice in 90% of European countries, with the exception of Iceland, Malta, our neighbour Turkey and, of course, Greece. The new school year, which will begin with this law being the law of the Greek state, will find our schools with eleven thousand seventeen hundred new permanent teachers in education. They are the first assignments after twelve years. A significant pillar of the law is the establishment of training structures and positions of officials with a purely pedagogical character. A gap that has been observed for years in schools is finally covered. This is the professional orientation, as advisory and guidance offices are set up by groups of schools. The most important point, in my opinion, concerns the autonomy of each school unit. We have to trust our excellent teachers. To invest in their skills and at their disposal to share knowledge with students. Let them do their job well at last. We are creating the right institutional framework so that there is greater freedom in the organisation of teaching, ensuring greater degrees of autonomy in our schools. The training model we've known so far is changing. At the center no longer will be the book, but the knowledge will be. That's what we achieve with the free choice of the book. At the same time, the standard form of confession is changed and the classic test ceases. Students will now be able to do individual or group work. Finally, the role of the school director is restored and strengthened. We know very well that since the 1980s and the advent of PASOK, the directors and their role have been strongly targeted and critically degraded. With the new law, among other things, the Director is responsible for organising annual intra-school training, teaching and off-teaching work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, one more minute, thank you very much. It may exercise disciplinary control and reproach. He is an evaluator of his educational staff and all of this will be done within a framework of transparency and accountability. Our aim is to continuously improve education. At this point I would like to raise a serious issue for the Dodecanese and all the smaller Aegean islands. The heroic island of Kassos, in which an unsubstantiated municipal school operates, must be an example and remain for all the small islands. In the small islands, therefore, the population, dear Minister and State Secretary, must not be allowed to do so and to be exceeded. We must motivate and practically support the new families who live and create on the remote islands. To be overcome, to keep education up and reward their heroes who built their lives there, against many difficulties. Feeling their own children have the same rights. Finishing: quality, upgrading, innovation, autonomy, decentralisation. These concepts are the core of the bill and at the same time are the red cloth for SYRIZA colleagues. For all these reasons, one can understand why the opposition will not vote for a law that moves in the right direction, which brings changes, which the Greek society itself demands. Your catapult has no limits. But do make thanks to Greek society not to promise that you will dismantle it and that it will apply a form of retrospective rating for the admission to university. It's the worst form of populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not ask me to speak any more, because we will be coming to the afternoon and not all Members will have spoken. I would remind you that the vote will take place at 7 p.m. Undersecretary, Mr. Makary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a modern educational system, the main theme for each country's development, production and scientific history, is an obligation and at the same time a great responsibility and challenge for the government and our ministry. Public education needs to become a national priority once again, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said yesterday from this step. The reflections, searches, thoughts and discussions on the organisation of education, the hierarchy of requirements, and the need for reforms have never been missed in the last twenty-four months that New Democracy is Government. As a result of these many, substantial, important and innovative educational initiatives, which are telegraphically the following: the restructuring of the National Higher Education Authority, the upgrading of public education, which covers all levels of infantry and primary and secondary education, the modernisation of private education and private school - a year ago we discussed this in this Chamber - the upgrading of initial vocational education and lifelong learning, the strengthening of the autonomy of higher education, the safeguarding of the implementation of educational programmes and the unobstructed research and promotion of innovation. At the same time, with the initiatives taken by the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and its systematic interventions, in order to meet the challenges and unprecedented conditions of the global health crisis, we are building methodically and synchronised modern school, with renewed content and philosophy, introducing a hundred and twenty new curriculum, including skills workshops in the compulsory timetable and English in kindergarten. We invest in our human resources, our teachers, training them horizontally and doing an act of eleven thousand seven hundred appointments, more than twice as many as we had committed, appointments of permanent staff, in the first twelve years following the four and a half thousand permanent appointments made in our special schools last year. We progress dynamically, transforming and equiping education in digital terms, but also by exploiting and expanding the alternatives of our young people in terms of their vocational training. We give all children, regardless of economic potential and regardless of origin, equal opportunities, to face up to the competitive side of modern life by strengthening and strengthening the institution of pilot and experimental schools. Ladies and gentlemen, today with maturity and fully aware of the need to change the course of education, knowing the problems and requirements of modern life, but also loyal to the New Democracy programme and the commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we are laying the foundations for the revision of our educational system in the present situation. It is a bill discussed in detail, thoroughly and with comfort in the Standing Committee on Educational Affairs and which regulates many issues of which have deteriorated during the period of governance of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, such as the production and implementation of school autonomy, the strengthening of support structures for educational work, the evaluation and improvement of educational staff and the modernisation and restructuring of church education. Unfortunately, over the past twenty years, rapid developments in science and technology have shown the grim image of the Greek education system, which seems outdated and ineffective. A system which cannot continue to move on to the general coordinates of the school's traditional character of cognitive memorization and fragmentation, fragmentation of knowledge and passive acquisition. A system that may remain more institutionalised and highly centralised, with a very small degree of administrative decentralisation in relation to the other education systems in Europe, in line with the findings of the 'EURYDIC' network. A system, finally, whose stereotype form, content and targeting are inconsistent with the requirements of the armouring of our children in a coherent, methodical and mature way to survive in the multi-dimensional knowledge society, information, to survive in an extremely dynamic and globalised environment, in a labour market that is not static, but incredibly competitive and unpredictable, with continuous and perpetual interconnection with what is happening on the planet twenty-four hours a day, three hundred and sixty-five days a year. The real crisis that school has been experiencing over recent years has not emerged or occurred today suddenly. The initial thoughts of modern school are varied. The efforts and practices followed are enough. The concerns are strong, the difficulties are serious. Unfortunately, however, the result was very satisfactory. It has also been demonstrated with the unpleasant and unpleasant results and the performance of students and students in the PISA research. Today Mr Lakasas in "Catherine" has an analysis and a report, which is not flattering for our country. With the results of students and pupils in the PISA research, the answer and the imperative solution to the current challenges is nothing more than coordinated planning and implementation of the educational process strategy, which reshapes a multidimensional creative personality of pupils with a vehicle with school autonomy. The quality of teaching, the use of the experience of teachers and the strengthening of support structures for the educational project should be issues in which schools themselves will be able to take decisions. School must be primarily experiential and also an attractive space, a place of cultivation, encouragement, a promotion of the creativity of our students, a place with more levels of freedom and autonomy, but also with greater transparency and accountability. Our children should learn to combine with excellent success, mathematics and synthetic ability the supply of classical education, but at the same time rapidly and with particular synthetic intelligence, imagination and crisis to create the conditions for their implementation of modern science and technology. They should develop and successfully correlate with emotional intelligence and empathy to skills, which are not other than interpersonal relationships and skills, indicatively, communication, personality, taking initiatives, collaboration and grouping, understanding a wide range of concepts, the ability to cooperate with people with different cultural features, the ability to solve problems, the management of tensions, the mobilisation of groups in a positive way. And our teachers - whose adequacy, competence and zeal we very much trust, whose anxieties and daily efforts for the best possible level of educational work produced and, of course, we warmly thank for their great devotion and their enthusiasm to embrace the challenges of telematics in recent years - should be transformed with their own initiatives, not above all coordinated and directed, school at a school in the future, a school liberated from bureaucratic inclinations and commitments, with a greater degree of autonomy and freedom, adapted to their own specificities and needs, a school that will give potential and a step to their own teachers to develop creative initiatives so that the lesson can be made more interesting, with the assignment of synthetic or transient work, the presentation or use of the inverted class. They should also breathe from obsolete limitations of the past, translate school units with good practice, choose through approved school manuals what is best for teaching their students, encourage the creation and operation of intra-school and inter-university groups, select the number, criteria, frequency and duration of evaluation of their students, strengthen the better organisation and cooperation of educational staff, and establish school class and course coordinators, with mentors, taking advantage of their experience, studies and specific competences. They should be - with one word - escorts of our students on learning journeys. On the other hand, can the school function uncontrollablely? The answer is certainly not, neither uncontrolled nor unsupported. This is why, for example, we are restructured in support structures, abolishing a completely inefficient institution, completely remote from the school units of PPCs and educational project coordinators, and restoring with an improved institutional framework the institution of the School Counsellor set up in 1982 and having as its responsibility the effective scientific and pedagogical support of educational and school units. We reintroduce this institution by improving and correcting imperfections, while systematically organising the institution of scientific and pedagogical guidance with the creation of Quality Assurance Supervisors and bringing the consultant closer to the school unit so that he can effectively support it. We are not simply confined to changing the name of the KEDO, the KEDERY and the KEDERY, but we are taking care to rationalise the thousands of hundreds of twenty positions of different specialties, and we are establishing and organising the school teams, with the aim of working together together together with the school teams, synergy and the exchange of good practice. We modernise and restructure our children's education on sustainability and the environment, transforming environmental education centres into centres for sustainability and the environment. At the same time, we consider that concepts such as evaluation of educational work, self-assessment, evaluation of the school unit, quality indicators of education, which, due to historical overthrows and deliberately consolidated beliefs were considered to be the new conceptual arsenal of modernised inspection, should finally take their true dimension and value into the educational process. Evaluation is a means of strengthening our teachers in a multicultural environment. It is self-evident and imposed by things. It has an improved and not a punishing character and appears in every area of human activity, linking the valuation of any individual or collective activity to its outcome. The evaluation records the current situation. They shall identify the strengths and weaknesses of the teachers' work and shall provide pedagogical support where necessary. It is a feedback mechanism and ensure that the quality of education is continuously improved. The evaluation reveals our teachers themselves and rewards their work. Alongside the new arrangements, the map of secondary, postgraduate and higher church education is remodeled, with the main aim of creating a coherent framework that meets the modern requirements and the overall upgrade of church staff, so that the management of important issues from the clergy, and the daily life of the believers, is extremely effective. Ladies and gentlemen, in his position yesterday, the Prime Minister asked all of us with sober and low tones to approach the issues of education. Obviously this invitation and proposal did not only address the opposition. Mostly and above all, he was addressing us, his own members. That is why, with double attention, I will address a point which I would like to raise, and I shall refer to the position taken by Mr Philadelphia in the Committee on Education and Youth, and to the incompetent attack he has made on the Minister. With Mr. Friends, we're almost peers. We studied at the same university institution. Mr. Friends has a lot of experience in amphitheatres, journalism and parliament. I am absolutely certain that, when he spoke out the words he said, he understood at the same time that this attack was unacceptable and that he committed a slip. From the friend I know from the former Minister, from the parliamentary, journalist, the leftist ideologist, I expected him to say a simple and disarmamental apology at that time, an apology that would end this issue and would not cause any problem. Mr. Philie, you know better than me that in the years of our youth, but now in our maturity, there were issues that were always out of political transaction, to paraphrase a legal term, and these were family and young children. The Minister didn't answer you. I think I expected to tell you the truth - even in plenary that you would ask for this apology. You didn't just owe her to the Minister, Mr. Philie. You owe it to your story, because you are a politician who may be rigid, can be strict, sometimes unjust, but he has always been honest and serious. You owed this apology to your own seriousness. And I want to tell you with complete honesty - I tell all my fellow Members - that I felt very uncomfortable when two SYRIZA's female colleagues felt the need - I do not know if they did this because they were on an orderly service - to defend you, ladies and gentlemen, who also had government positions. They defended you in this immoral attack on a politician, which honors the position that you, Mr Philie, once had. With regard to the question of the commitment of the Chief of Staff Responsibility to retroactively abolish the minimum import base, I understood at first that this was an inalienable right. Yesterday, in his position, he realized that this is a right which has an annual amortization deadline. So anthrax is any treasure, even for those who will believe it, and I think that no further political comment is needed. I shall finish, Mr President, with a reference to three children who were separated from the examination this year. Mrs. Pipilis mentioned a large number of children who were distinguished. He also mentioned their names. I'll praise three of them. The first child I will praise is the child who described himself as a "successful loser" and I will praise him because he is indeed excellent. He's a kid who manages and passes, if I'm not mistaken, in three of the five schools he could pass. So he is excellent and his performance and the room he has to study in these schools makes him excellent. He poorly describes himself and commits himself as a loser, because he's not. And I would like to tell him as a mother with a lot of love and attention and respect, of course, in trying to be a child who had the luck of studying at a model school. Many of his peers or fellow candidates did not have it. Besides, there were no standards and experimental schools throughout Greece. Now, with the effort of our Ministry, they exist in every region. So he studied at a standard school and managed to succeed in school. If he wants to, of course, he has the molecules and the possibilities, while other children, while being equally capable, did not seem as lucky.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u7	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u8	I will not be late, Mr President. I will also congratulate the child of the multitude family, who, although losing both his parents, succeeded, succeeded, distinguished with extremely high performance and prevented his personal adventure from becoming a popular reading. Finally, I will congratulate the child of biopalestors, who raised nineteen thousand molecules and his choice is to come and study and become a teacher. With these teachers, these kids, these teachers, we'll build the new school. They will implement our educational reform. These are the teachers we want to trust and help our children. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u9	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u10	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u11	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u12	What do you want, Mr. Skourlet? What do you want, Mr. Philly? You normally don't have the right. Only if it is personal or procedural. Neither is the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u13	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u14	It's personal to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u15	Personal. Anyway, I didn't understand. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I have heard the State Secretary, Mrs Makrere, and what she said about a matter that concerns me. To thank her for how she described my personality. He referred to an issue which emerged in the Committee on Morphic Affairs and which has been discussed and I think has been resolved. The necessary clarifications were given on both sides, and I thought the matter had been resolved. As I made clear at the time - I say it now - I have no intention of attacking anyone. I personally made a critical policy to the Minister. I didn't mean to involve any of her family. After all, what I said is something that also concerns me - I stressed it - as a parent and not as a Minister of Education. When the Education Ministers legislate, we always have in our minds in the middle of the class two eyees of our children who see us. What will they say when they grow up for the policy that we legislate and follow? What would they say, for example, if Philis were to pursue a policy of slaughtering twenty thousand children from universities with his policy or other issues? That's everyone's thing. The Minister arrested it as a personal attack and as an attack on her family.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u17	Okay. But these have been solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u18	There's no such matter. I'm clear. I'd like to say something, though. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u19	But hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u20	I'm closing, Mr. President. I do not like the personalisation of political controversy and, if that is the case, no objection to re-establishing it. However, what kind of political controversy is when the Minister has heard from me a lot of response to the committee and here, she insists that the signature of a friend is the one that brought the grades of colleges with university degrees and has unfortunately also led the Prime Minister to this view. I said and stress that it's the signature of Arvanitopoulos, Government Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u21	You said it in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u22	We abolished when we got out of the memoirs before the competition that law. Mr President, I shall conclude. I don't like personal confrontation. We have many political and ideological disagreements. I don't like the self-immunification either, showing myself as a politician that I'm a victim. I'm not a politician. Usually politicians are perpetrators and not victims. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u23	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u24	And I do not like to take advantage of or exploit my other qualities to circumvent the necessary political controversy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u25	The explanations were given. Acute was the attack. I, of course, as an old politician, do not accept what you have said. We're usually victims. We're also perpetrators, but we're victims. Let us not completely deceive the role of the politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u27	We proceed with Mr. Evangelos Apostleou. Then there's Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis. Then there is Mr Konstantinos Kontogiorgos, Mr Christos Giannoulis, if he is in the Chamber, because he is rapporteur in committee - he will not be deleted, he will be held - and then Mr Iasonas Fotilis. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. The bill we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, follows the same practice as the government's legislative initiatives. You are creating, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and in the field of education, conditions for the formation of a state framework - feud and you are talking about upgrading and modernisation. Who do you think you're going to be misleading? The so-called autonomous operation of the school, the changes in the structures of education, the selection of managers and the specific evaluation of teachers are the steps for a customer system and the educational community. With the alleged upgrading of the school climate will change in a negative direction, it will become completely different. It will be a school not only dependants, but also dominating the sense of insecurity. And all this in everyday life will result in the dissolution of the educational climate, of the fellowship, of the cooperation and of the solidarity of the school. It is this school that the government is actually dealing with as a company and teachers simply as order handlers. The educational community, please, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will stand up to you. The abuse of the concepts of 'autonomy', 'enhancement of the role of teachers' and 'decentralisation' is obvious. You can't have autonomy and decentralisation without democracy. The narrowing of the competences of the teachers' association and its limitation on important things together with the appointment of the school board in fact are not decentralisation or strengthening the role of teachers. We're returning not only to the old inspector, but we also have the Chief Inspector now. The strengthening of the school's so-called autonomy refers to the increasing discharge of the State from its obligations to finance, staffing, training and other functions of the school. Moreover, among the criteria of the so-called self-assessment of the school unit, which was rejected at overwhelming rates by teachers, was the management of financial resources and staff at the level of a school unit. Autonomy based on this experience means greater dependence of schools on parental pockets and market needs. It means greater involvement with various bodies, such as institutions, non-governmental organisations, companies that are given a say, even in what will be taught, with class barriers growing up more and more. The consequence of this will be the even greater categorization of schools, which will be even more intensified by the multiple book. In essence the writing of books under the responsibility of the State is transferred to private individuals. The State is not guaranteed free of charge. As for the so-called selection opportunity, this undermines the need for a single, modern and scientifically and pedagogically documented curriculum, while intensifying the categorisation of schools. The schools, unfortunately, are categorised by a neighborhood per neighborhood and municipality. Instead of excellent schools for all children, schools will be divided into good and bad schools, a measure that is the first step to impose punishment in the form of deprivation of resources, as has already happened with universities. The inequality of schools depending on the social, living level of each neighborhood becomes a competitive advantage or disadvantage for thousands of pupils and families. As for the so-called "individual evaluation" of teachers, this has nothing to do with upgrading the teaching and content of education. He'll be undernourished at the same time. It is, in fact, about suffocating control so that the reactionary directions can be implemented literally, as they will be specified by the government every time. We are not opposed to evaluation. But we are opposed to this assessment. The main issue is to create the proper conditions within school that will develop love for knowledge, conditions that will cultivate the perception of the truth, a truth that will interpret and change the world, and these schools must be free, same and uniform and for all children. Of course you know, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that no reform can succeed in education unless it is supported and accepted by the educational community, teachers, pupils and parents. Minister, whether they "arrest" you or resign, you should know that eventually you will be left alone on this anti-educational path that you follow with this bill. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u29	The flow of colleagues, as I said, will be interrupted, because he has come - and did not speak yesterday - and he has asked for the floor and the President of Mera25 Mr Varoufakis will take him. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Now, I'm sorry, yesterday why didn't anyone protest with the other five? So what can I say to Mr. Varoufakis, that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure? That's what the Rules of Procedure say. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, have you ever wondered why any of your fellow Ministers for Education in the countries to which you are sending your children to study, none of them has ever introduced a minimum import base? And don't protest, don't say again that's not true! Don't repeat the mistake you made when we talked about university police and insisted that there is police in Oxford! I recognize the right to humiliation, but restrain yourselves! In the countries you are admiring - to say it simply, to be clear - there is no priori minimum import base. It's over and over! Neither in the United States nor in Britain nor anywhere! What happens is that the basis, i.e. the 'cut off point' that they say, is diminished according to performance. Whether we're talking about GCE in England, about the SAT in America, about the HSC in Australia, the IB, the International Baccalaureate worldwide, there's an distribution of grades on the body of students and students. They say, for example, it's predetermined - for example, these numbers are not these numbers, they're changing these numbers - that 5% of those who will give tests will get "First", 15% will get "Lean Good", 35% will get "good", 45% will be cut. So they have this distribution, they impose it on the body of the examiners, and that determines which student or student will be the marginal student, that is, who is the last person to pass. The next one or the next one is cut. That, of course, they do in Estonia does not necessarily mean that it is right, that there is no injustice. There are injustices. For example, in a period of time, in a year where you may have very good students, imposing a certain percentage of "First", 5%, may mean that some excellent people don't get "First". But, when the sample, the number of persons tested is large, it is tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, the possibility of this injustice is depleted, nullified, unlike your own system, where injustice is guaranteed, not to say designed. Contrary to you, in the countries you admire their educational systems, the Ministers for Education are wise enough to know that no an objective minimum basis is laid down for admission for any lessons and it is certainly not defined by the Ministry of Education, by the Minister or the Minister, however well-trained they are, how much of you, Mrs Kerameos. So in the countries that you admire first, they choose how many people will be introduced and then they allow the minimum import base to decline endogenously in order to introduce the number they have chosen. Good and honest! Contrary to you, who, in a puppet way and aim to "saving" tens of thousands of imported people, decide on a preamble, a priori, what this minimum import base will be, so, of course, that tens of thousands of children remain outside, not to pay places that you, your ministry, have described as being places for filling. The world out there, Mrs. Kerameau, is messing with you. They all know that imposing this minimum import base from you, from the Ministry, best proves your inadequacy, at worst your tolerance. Yesterday morning out here, in Syntagma Square, the youth of Mera25 posted a banner in which he wrote: "The minimum import base to put it in the colleges of your friends!" With their slogan, these children give us the opportunity to continue our confrontation where you and I left it a few months ago. You will remember when you told me, when I had proposed, "we do not want a minimum import base anywhere", because I explained to you that in any serious country the Ministry did not decide what it is, but if I had told you, if you were to put it, at least prove that you are not working for the colleges of calamity, that you really believe in the correctness of the minimum import base, by imposing it on private colleges. And what did you come back and tell me then? At that time you replied: "But is it possible for us to impose criteria for the selection of students at foreign universities operating in Greece?" Not only is this possible, not only is it appropriate, but it also results from the election programme of the New Democracy, which I read yesterday - yes, I did this to myself - and I have seen that it expressly mentions your commitment to the operation of private universities, foreign and Greek, in Greece, which - you say this - will work, says, in strict terms and conditions, with an assessment by the Greek Ministry of Education, by the Ministry of Education, by the ADI and by accountability, I imagine, in the Greek state. So you in your election program say you will impose strict terms and conditions on these colleges. So, yes, it is a glorious opportunity to act on your election commitments, to gather the colleges of misfortune that are working here sympathetic to the Americans, some Americans, and several British universities. Is there a more reasonable application of the promise to make them operate on strict terms and conditions by applying the minimum import base to them now? Look, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I will once again say that the position of Mera25 is that we are vertically against any minimum import base. We do not propose, we will fight, we consider it foolish - and I have explained the reasons - as they regard as foolish in the United States, France, Britain and Australia. What must happen is that the Ministry of Education chooses clearly, honestly, with political criteria, on the basis of social criteria, on the basis of educational criteria, how many people should be introduced every year into our universities and allow the minimum bases to be determined, as is the case in IB, by the examination system, without intervention by the Ministry. But if you want to convince the citizens out there that your obsession with the exclusion of tens of thousands of young people through the minimum import base is not intended to turn all these children to your "friends" of private colleges, at least to impose it on colleges. But you won't! You would destroy the business model of these calamity colleges! Ma'am, you have the bad luck of knowing from within what I'm telling you. Over the past few decades I had served in the admission committees of students to British and Australian universities. In particular, I will mention two, which have examples here: East Anglia and Exeter. To speak with names! So I say to you that in the committee where we were the teachers and planned the introduction of students to these universities, in particular, in these two instances, he appears to be a reflector who clearly told us that the university needs money and that we should do something about the introduction of students into third world countries. That's how he told us! They included Greece. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And he told us how to do it. We're going to do a deal with a college chief in Malaysia, South Korea, Singapore, Greece, Portugal. Of course, there's all the students will need to know to get in there and be accepted to sign the check. Today they need codes at Web Banking. They don't even have to know how to sign a check, no checks. Later, when I was teaching at the University of Sydney, the University of Sydney, namely the School of Economics, along with a contractor in the city of Penang, Malaysia, built the "Penang University College", in which the atheophobics were designed to make money - in fact, the university won a lot - the university? They offered the first year of the courses of the Department of Economics, to which I was teaching, i.e. I had the same manuals and others, of course not the same teachers, they took anyone who, once again, only with the ability to sign the check, and gave the right to those who ended the first year at that college - of course entirely different from those who entered Sydney - to enter the second year of the University of Sydney. Why did they do that? To overcome the limitations of the Australian Ministry of Education, he said that to enter the University of Sydney, a few points are needed. This is the field in which the private colleges of calamity operate! Their business model is based on franchise in third world countries, in countries where people, like Greece, are thirsty for an Anglo-Saxon University degree, especially when you throw children out of the Greek AEI, as you do with the import degree. And the Third-World Ministers of Education, like you, Mrs.Kerameos, are working friendlyly to maximize the clientele of their partnerships with the Anglo-Saxon universities, who actually sell their stamp as much as they do. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And they don't mind. And you know why they don't mind? Because when an employer in London, Lancaster, in Cardiff, comes the paper that says on 'University of Exeter', he will ask: 'Where did you do the degree?' If you tell him you did it at a college in Athens, he doesn't hire you. The English know very well how to undisturbed atypically those who want to undisturbed! That's why Mera25's youth banner was so adept, that he was calling on you to put the minimum import base where you know, in the colleges of your friends! Because it is not your nature to get away from the model of the Third-World Minister for Education, of course you will not! Mrs. Kerame, you're about the education of this place like the GOD on public property: tombstone! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And it is a pity, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you have this Mrs. Minister for Education, because the truth is that our universities are being mobilized. It is a pity, because we really need as a society to talk seriously about the problems of higher education institutions in that country. It is a pity, for decades now all governments have brought about a dispersal of endlessly peaceful university departments on the ground, which was wrong. You know that, as we all know. It was a mistake, which today has been converted into a headache, into a migraine. And it is a pity, because your political response to this headache, in this migraine, is Mrs Kerameau's "head hurts, cuts off." Because that is the minimum basis for introduction! They will actually devastate these parts, which we have poorly sowed throughout the territory, and they will be closed down. You create an alibi to yourself to close them. It is a pity, because, instead of this House two years now, we are talking about the necessary reconstruction of the schools, the institutions, the curriculum, the research programmes, which is slowing down without resources, two years now, Mrs Kerameus, you have entangled us in an endless, sterile confrontation over asylum, the police in amphitheatres, now the import bases, tomorrow for an assessment designed to destroy values. But if something upsets me as a university, that's the feeling - and to be fair with Mrs Keramea - that the problem goes far beyond faces. Friends of SYRIZA, what does my good colleague Costas Gavroglou have to do with Mrs. Kerameos? None! And yet what makes me sad - and I speak to you and look to you in the eyes sincerely and friendlyly - is that, despite the chaotic differences between persons, the ironic logic of levelling is ultimately what prevails. Take an example of the so-called universityization of Mr. Gavroglou's TEIs. What did he do? He took TEI, some of which were very well run as TEI, as technological educational institutions, and he conceded them. And how did he university them? With what personal? By allowing them to take teachers from secondary school and put them at the TEIs in the departments that did them. So they created so-called university departments. From where many of them were very important and useful to society, technological educational establishments created so-called university departments, which do not actually stand in the light of criticism as university departments and are vulnerable to the current "access" of Mrs Kerameos. Take SYRIZA's friends, the de facto media privatization, which is always the biggest problem of public higher education in any country, be it Britain or Australia. The privatization of public higher education institutions did not take place as the privatisation of the OSE took place. It's done from inside. Guys are still public, but basically started a privatisation process that starts with the introduction of tuition fees and the graduation of tuition fees depending on who the student is, if he is a stranger, whether he is ours, if he is in category (a) or in category (b). This is how privatisation starts in Britain and Australia, the first students of the de facto privatization of public universities. With what soul, friends of SYRIZA, will you resist the creation of new curriculum programs with ever higher tuition when on your day you validated the operation of most postgraduate programs with tuition fees that the country has ever known? Now, Minister, let's go to the big evaluation. I heard Mr Mitsotakis say - you might have said it yourself, anyway by the same carbon, you copy each other - that no worthwhile teacher should be afraid of evaluation. That's what he says. It shows his complete ignorance - which I'm sure is your ignorance too - about how darkness is reproduced in schools and universities. The greatest nightmare of the good teacher of biology is an evaluator - inspector who questions Darwin or scientific data on vaccines. The greatest nightmare of the good teacher of history, Mrs. Kerameos, is an evaluator who considers that the driving force of history is the great men. The greatest nightmare of the good teacher of Mathematics is an inspector-evaluator who prefers the students' ability to snatch proofs of hundreds of theories without understanding their importance. The greatest nightmare of the good teacher of the ancient Greek secretariat is an evaluator with obsessed in the Constitution, who does not care about the interpretation of the texts or their philosophical dimension. The greatest nightmare of the good English teacher, do you know who he is? It is an evaluator that measures the teacher's performance in line with the students' performance in Lower and Proficiency and does not give a damn about the students' ability to communicate effectively in English. To say it in the language of well-intentioned liberalism, such as the big question in every society is who will protect us from protectors, in the field of education the big question in terms of evaluation is who will assess the assessors. It's a question beyond you, Mrs. Kerameau. If it passes through your mind, you'll faint like Ran Tan Plan. There's no doubt about that. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Minister, as a teacher I have been for decades, I have had to be appraised. In three continental universities I was evaluated every year for decades and evaluated. I know, Mrs Kerameau, what evaluation means and I tell you that what you bring here has nothing to do with evaluation. You flew into the articles of your bill and an evaluation to exist. You've got the managers to assess. How? Without a programme, without criteria, without resources, and of course without answering the big question 'and who will assess them'? We need an evaluation. As a teacher - and I say this again - I demanded to be evaluated by my colleagues, but in an expensive way, not cheap as the ones you make up for. What did I want? I wanted Members to come in a draw, as was the case in countries that I have taught, and to follow my lesson and score me on the basis of what I said. I wanted colleagues to read my research articles and score me on the basis of what I wrote, not on the basis of cheap questionnaires and quantification that kills quality. This is an expensive system. We as a PART25 are clear: No body of inspectors or raters, managers or anything else. Every permanent teacher of mid-education - and I would say that for universities - every eight years each professor will be able to spend six months by being an evaluator of his or his or her colleagues, at another corner of the earth, the territory, so that everyone knows that for one semester every eight years they will evaluate others as the others evaluate them. That's an expensive system. He wants work, but he creates an educational community where we learn from each other. How do you think an article in ‘NATURE’ or ‘SCIENCE’ is published, which you may have heard as important magazines of sciences, or ‘ECONOMETRICA’ in the field of finances? How do you think the three of the thousands submitted are chosen for publication? All those who submit articles for evaluation at some point are evaluators. You send articles to a magazine, you come back his evaluation, which is usually convicted. That's how the university space works, and that's how it should be. The criteria must be very hard. But at some point a letter comes to you from the editor of the same magazine who cut you and says, "We're sending you the article to evaluate it." That means an academic community. That's what he wants money, that's what he wants. That's what the Minister wants that has nothing to do with any lady... Lightning. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] These are fine letters for you, Mrs. Kerameau. Here every time you come, evaluate with exactly zero (0). If there were negative numbers, you'd be rated with negative numbers. I shall conclude, Mr President, by not addressing Mrs Kerameau, but to you, the Members of the New Democracy. I would like to ask you for a moment to put aside all our controversy because we are divided - there is no doubt about that - but I refuse to accept that we and we are not sharing, and I would say all of Parliament, our admiration for the students and the students who life has brought them into the difficult position to work for eight and ten hours a day and to spend the evening at an evening in the middle of a school. I think you're hurting them, just like we're hurting them. I'm sure of that. The state, precisely because it is universal for these children - all the governments so far - when recognizing their struggle had predicted for every 100 places in the university in any section that there is a place for one of these children, for one of the graduates of these summer comments. That one-and-a-half-three-a-half-three-and-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-and-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. You know that? He abolished it. The Merra25 is being filed again and again - I don't know how many times we've testified, four times, five times? - the amendment to cancel this abolition and reintroduce 1% for graduates in summer schools. In our explanatory statement we highlight three important aspects: firstly, that combining the minimum degree of introduction and the abolition of 1% is the charismatic shot for these children, they will never enter the university. Secondly, in advanced countries such as Britain and the United States, which know the system very well and in Australia - they are systems that I know like my palm - children who are in summer schools, who work, are even more generous in the course of the introductory process. Thirdly, according to the statistics of at least the University of Athens, which I know well, by the children who entered this 1% of the Spanish schools, their graduation rate and their excellence at the university was the highest percentage of all other student groups. Mrs Kyrame too rejects our amendment again and again! Only a deep hate can explain that. That is why I am not addressing Mrs Keramea. I am addressing you directly. At least that's what you're imposing. Require that our amendment be accepted. Repeat 1% for the children of the citrus. Whether you will collect Mrs. Keramos or she will make you her accomplices. It's your choice. Make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u32	What do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u33	A lot of people are invaded. We've arrived at 11:30 and no Member has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u34	First, three have spoken. Irrespective of this, however, what do you want, since the Rules of Procedure say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u35	To speak to a number of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u36	You'll all talk by 1900. Is this the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u37	Apply some tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u38	The tactic is what the Rules of Procedure say, Mr Colleague, which stipulates that the political leader is asking for the floor and takes it as soon as the speaker comes down, as are the former Members of Parliament. I would like to explain to you now why Mrs Papayannakis will shortly be taking the step in the same way as Mrs Papayannakis. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a phrase with which, in my opinion, we can all agree between ourselves and the perfection of this phrase, namely that social development, long-term and modernism objectively require the continuous expansion of knowledge, cognitive growth. So far I think we'll all agree. There's no one who's gonna say that knowledge doesn't matter. And if you want to add something else: this need arises for the continuous development of changes in work. Look at the whole history and evolution of mankind. That's the way it was. And, precisely, changes in work require continuous changes in the educational system, revision of teaching programmes, scientific fields may disappear and appear new, coordination of new technologies with knowledge and their integration into the knowledge process. They require new training programmes, continuing training, coordination between different scientific fields, etc. I don't think there's anyone in this Chamber who disagrees. From there, however, the Communist Party of Greece makes it clear that the development of knowledge which many of it passes through the education of all levels, either in the form of research at universities or in the form of education and training, in the conditions of capitalism is, in any case, classic. To reach agreement on this matter. A bill comes up, and if I'm not mistaken, because in the end I may be confused, it's about upgrading the school and strengthening the teachers, and it's mostly about the 12-year-old school, high school, high school and primary school, it's not about higher education institutions. And, of course, it is a bill that, as Mr Mitsotakis said, cynically and raw brings changes that need to be made because we need to take account of the needs of the market. He cynically said it and he couldn't help it. And don't forget that when we started fermenting and a first publication of the bill there was an article that said that classes should be created in school based on children's learning skills. It has been said - and I am sorry for the expression - that this article, even by friends and followers of the New Democracy, who either have a different scientific - educational view or because they do not want to have a purely open and raw way out of New Democracy and cause. He tells you: You have a series of articles in the bill, building new class barriers, that bring completely classic categorization of schools. What do you want us to do now and say it openly? If it becomes the deepest class categorization of schools, fate will have schools that satisfy alpha learning skills, beta or gamma, you say and children are born with the stigma or the advantage, that they are within their DNA, that some children will have very developed and promoted learning skills, but they are doomed to have moderate, less or less. I am, of course, exempted from certain specific cases where genetically certain things are defined, which are very few cases. I was amazed - of course I should not be surprised - that it was dominated by Mr Mitsotakis' debate - particularly in the abbreviations - of Mr Tsipras, Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Varoufakis that they all start with the minimum import base at universities. It's a matter of course. We took a stand against this choice. In the final analysis, however, how do the introductory examinations go in and what are the introductory examinations at the university, is it what determines the class character of education? It's one. But if you want, it's not the primary one. Travel education means that even if you abolish the exam and say that children enter universities freely, the class dimension will also be categorized because the universities have already been categorized. With the supremacy of Mr.Gavroglou and the previous Dimantopoulou law, etc., which was passed by the majority of the House, we have de facto and official categorisation of universities, because there are schools that enter with "10", which you enter with "2", with "3", with "9" and schools that must have nineteen thousand molecules upward. Isn't that a categorization? Has any research ever been done by the Ministry of Education or by a government, whether it was neo-democratic, either pascal or sysmic, to study the social composition of universities, why is it more covert so far? We are, of course, going through a phase of eloquence of the New Democracy Act, but also of general standards, European and global, where schools will now be officially categorised. Have you checked on the social composition of universities, whether they concern urban centres or a region or a school to see what the social origin of children is? And you'll see it's class stuff, specified. It is therefore obvious that controversy, controversy and controversy are not actually being built here, that new class barriers - not only in schools, class barriers begin from the cognitive subject - but that of the minimum import base, a problem which, in itself, is not what will solve the issue of equality between children of the working-people's family and children of the bourgeoisie in the class society. And so there was a debate - in my opinion - yesterday and today with the eyes on the next poll, whether someone predicts that it will be in one year or in two years' time, there is at least no point in the timing of the polling. It is a debate that aims - and I shall say it clearly - at the vote and, most importantly, at the fermentation of the next government cooperation. It is no coincidence that the Prime Minister recently chooses to answer Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennamas. That's no accident at all. As if there are no other parties in the House that say alpha, beta, gamma or there is no party that expresses itself radically different perception. It doesn't matter if Mr. Mitsotakis embraces her. It is important that this perception also exists. So, as far as what we are talking now is concerned, I believe that especially since September, the confrontation within specific electoral criteria, which they say to the people, 'Look at seeing, can't change anything. This system that we live in is eternal. You will choose which party will best manage the needs of the system." However, I should like to go further on the basis of this bill. We understand very well what we are saying about the importance of expanded knowledge and strive for class barriers to be reduced - in capitalism we live, they are not abolished, there are no socialist islands - and the content of knowledge. The Prime Minister told you that he clearly said what the market needs for knowledge. I mean, learning in a little time and fast to get a chance to find a job, and when the employer wants something else, learning quickly and quickly... to go to work, not to learn to think, to learn the need to win the objective truth, to realize the need to change this rotten world, not really to learn the laws of social evolution. Of course, the parrot tends to be abolished and in its place fragmentation, opacity, irrationalism, latex boxes. But there's another side. The New Democracy has been denounced - and it is the complaint that has been made, we too adopt it - that it favours private education. Of course, it favours her. Excuse me, but how do you answer the other parties? The single 12-year compulsory school was never introduced in Greece by any government or the PASOK government, which was talking about the third road to socialism or by the SYRIZA government. It's a tool. It will not completely abolish the class barriers, but all children finish the single 12-year-old school. Was there a class differentiation when you ever had the professional high school in the single school and you ever get it out? What you are all adopting at the moment, but you do not confess - the New Democracy does not admit it - is that we are going to go for a school education system where nine years of compulsory education and the children at fifteen years of age will go to the opportunityal cheap apprenticeship and actually go to the 16th of their work. In other words, we're going back to the work of the 15-year-olds and sixteen-year-olds. That is what is happening in all the countries of Europe, and I like to say that you are talking about best European practices. Mr Varoufakis, in fact, has brought some strange examples for some countries with a regime in private education and something like that. Let us make this clear: are you in favour or not of the 12-year-old compulsory school? That's the one. In other words, in the eighteen years, children will decide whether to go to a post-training level or to a university, on the basis of whether or not they need a scientific object. Secondly, you say the government favors some of her college friends. We are not concerned, we cannot make a file about who the government's friends are and who they are not. It's not possible. We can't look for these things. We are against the private education of any form, any grade. Of course, it is a request that cannot be practically possible in the conditions of capitalism, but it is part of the struggle that we have and, as far as possible, direct conquests and to prevent new class barriers. It is a struggle linked to the change in fact and the overthrow of capitalist society. We have said that and you know that. We're against the generals. Of course, there are also private schools and private schools that can produce good work. However, they do not cease to be private education. So you all found the easy solution. The government, of course, tells you: 'This is capitalism, we will also have publicity, we will have private'. There is no peaceful coexistence in the public and private sectors. The private sector needs space. There can't be any. Neither you have taken, as SYRIZA, or other parties measures against private education restriction or the upgrading of public education, so that spontaneously children with the help of their parents can go only to public education. And if some of them close privately, they are the ones where they are not the largest shareholders, the smallest, small and medium-sized private schools, who have closed down, because they cannot withstand the large - or because they are also created - large chains. From the moment you're in favour of private education, let's not do what separates you chaos with New Democracy, because then we'll find out which shareholders are in a private school or college, etc., are friends of the New Democracy - so we'll make the policy of the bedroom that you do - or be from the start and you'll call a single public education system once a child is born and go to the nursery. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one last. In the last few days, perhaps a month ago, there has been a fermentation by the government of bringing a bill on pre-school education from zero to four years old. At some point I heard for up to six years, depending. Mrs. Kerameos has also been placed, and Mrs. Domna Michailidou, if I'm not mistaken. Honestly, I'm telling you, although we're not so sensitive, we're "expressed" in the conditions of capitalism, that I'm scared. I heard it on the radio in an interview. What was the central issue? Mrs Kerameo said so too, Mrs Michailidou said so. That the child from zero to four years old is a sponge." So we will lead it to acquire skills from zero to four years old. Skills are not knowledge, gentlemen. They are part of the cognitive process - yes - and they are developing, but it is not knowledgeable. So you're going to manipulate your head and choices with class criteria for the children from zero to four years old? I shall conclude, Mr President. I told a mother. I was asking some mothers I met lately how they understand this thing, how their children see it, what talents they show in both three and four years. One says to me: 'My child, when I ask 'what kind of work do you want to do and what do you want to do?', he says, 'I want to be a buttman'. Can the children from zero to four years old develop skills? There are children who, at three years of age, paint all six and seven years can't make a single circle! You understand, in other words, that you are going to manipulate, the New Democracy - and it does not speak of any other party, because it actually knows that this is the general choice - their children and parents and the educational staff from zero to four years old. This bill must raise everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u40	We will proceed as follows. They will speak Mr. Ligolis, Mr. Kontogeorgios, if Mr. Giannoulis has returned from committee, otherwise Mr. Fotilis, then Mr. Scandalidis. I would remind you that Mr. Scandalides was invited to Step and I sat him down, because they were two political leaders in and Mr. Koutsubas took the floor. This has resulted in his own Chief speaking. As a result, half the time is wasted. He'll have some tolerance. I say it in advance, so it won't be commented on. Three colleagues will be speaking again, and Mr Skourletis, who had asked me for the floor on his second-guess, as a parliamentary representative. Mrs. Liikali, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I asked for the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u42	Excuse me, Mrs. Liikali. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I take the floor at the end of the post of Head of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, and I have to do so, because it is well known that the acuity with which it has been placed is well known and that sometimes characterises its position as a person, such as for the Minister of Keramea, as it has been placed. Acidity against the New Democracy and the Members of the New Democracy is also known. It is also well known that the ambiguity and the complaining reason which distinguishes its positions, but above all the absence of any proposal. Generalizations and vagueness. That's his right, gentlemen of Merra25. Appreciate it. What is not his right to do is to alter the truth. He dedicated half of his position, moving the finger to New Democracy for the absence, supposedly, of social sensitivity, that we abolished 1% for the Spanish schools. And indeed, he tabled the 25th amendment to bring it back. I therefore say to my fellow Members that it will be good to protect your Chief, because this 1% rate has never been abolished. And when he comes here, the party leader and places himself on things he doesn't know, I think we're losing our seriousness here. Well, let's get serious. The New Democracy is socially sensitive. The Minister has proved this, the Prime Minister himself. 1%, Mr President, has not been abolished. It is therefore in the air that the amendment to Mera25 is and it would be good to be more careful when they come and are placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Gregoriadis, I've called Mrs. Lykouley. Then you'll take the floor. We will not have ping - Pong Parliamentary Representatives and I will hear from my fellow Members, in part rightly, that they do not speak. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really do not know whether your Government and you, what you are doing in the field of education, really do consider them a high policy, as you do. But it is clear to you that your high policy in our eyes is experimentally hairdressing. In Cassidy's head - so you have transformed the new generation - to the next, those who will keep the fate of the country in hands and embody the hope for the eternal world that the generation of people is striving to build, the generation that we must train from us, to be inspired by the ideas that we will inherit the vision that we will inspire to young people and the ethos that we will cultivate in them, so you have done and said all that you have said in the last days and with your bill. Where all this is in your course, I wonder. You are talking about reforms, about large-scale projects of radical change. What young people and the whole society are supposed to expect and you appear with an unprecedented magnificence, which arrives until you're up on your step and crowned with the laurels on your own. You're sorry about each other. There's noise, noise, trouble, discomfort. In simple terms, the public disapproves you and you are not at all concerned. Really, should these be the big changes that everyone expected? Anger and anger? Don't you see anything? Don't you hear anything? Didn't you realize what's going on in the real world? So I'll tell you what's going on, Minister. Little teenage heroes you have produced and produced them every day, bold young men who grabbed the pen and made a gun fight. There is no day not to dawn and there is no Dionysisis, a Stavrouula, an Eleni, a George, a Mary, a Dimitri and so many other young children who will not write you an open letter. They are letters - tricks about injustice with the minimum basis for introduction, for lost excellence, lost effort, injustice to drown them, the dream that they lose. Who armed these teenagers' hands with this pen, starring the emotion and the mind? What do children do with their letters to you, Minister? They let the feeling talk, tell you everything that makes them sad. All the "I want to talk to you"s been placed on a glue and sent to the recipient, i.e. to you. What did you do? Instead of listening, sharing, feeling, you responded publicly to children. You said it wasn't your fault at the import base, it was the universities. You said that. But you said, "So, you guys, you wouldn't have gone through last year, and you must finally understand that the school must be better and that it will be done with us." In simple words, then, you ripped the papers together with the children, and you threw them in the can of the useless. And while one would expect - and you hear - that they will be silent, and yet those children of hope again with their pen resisted and disproved everything you said, even your calculations of their molecules and whether they were past last year, since you did not even do that you were wrong. One more mistake, you'll tell me. So what? In the middle of a lot, in the middle of a lot and in fatality. After you were so close to drowning the children in the tentacles - masks, so advertised at the beginning of your career, saying that the state finally provides for everything and is here, you are still not responsible for the millions of euros that have been wasted on parachutes - masks, neither you nor the Ministry of Interior. We're looking to find the ticks. Nobody. Are the schools - accordions, opening and closing in the pandemic with any logic and any structured plan? Didn't you, the leadership of your ministry, announce that the students will be arrested, even on the school benches and pay fines? Didn't you maintain all of SYRIZA's unacceptable laws on teachers? Where are you going with the college story? The counter-democratic treatment of teachers, which operate on the boards without the presence of elected representatives? Say a word about it. They don't deserve it? The private teachers you've thrown them off? The "decorative conduct" please the perfect ones in the sanitariums? The party you guys had in social media? Where are you going with this? And, of course, the minimum import base for recent days, which you have not yet corrected with an incredible stubbornness and a persistent concern, while you have made the decisions on French, on the project and on all the things that prevent children from gaining the import base? For today's bill, he's acting like a reformist. Is it a reformist? It must gather certain features, as you know, which are dominant features must have the nature of the industry's consent. This is where you do not even reconstitute the National Education Council. Education policy without political and social consensus. Where's he going? It doesn't go anywhere. Experiment will be one more time, so the next ones can come and abolish it. No long-term plan, unfortunately. You are, in fact, introducing positive provisions with a reform mark in this bill, but it is a loan, you know that too. It's a loan, because you baptized it. For example, you felt the need for the multi-advertised skill labs to turn into these flexible-band programs, the work of PASOK, health education, environmental education, and so on, the mentor, the multi-book, our own conquests and proposals and them. Of course, yes, but old news, Minister. Now we have a digital school, and that's just a help. And for the infamous evaluation, of course, that the Change Movement has always been in favour of it for decades, of the laws that have passed and of the laws that we have passed, unfortunately, since you have, of course, voted against even No.3848/2010, you have brought a veil and vagina evaluation, eighteen articles to which you are not saying anything. Why don't you say anything? Why are you telling us an evaluation of teachers without evaluating the structures, without evaluating the programmes, without evaluating the resources, without everyone involved in the educational process. So what's that? And you have put many other instruments, for example we are unable to understand why the evaluation of the heads of government remains anonymous. Are they spearheads? The ones that exist to the chiefs? What is it that you're actually introducing inside as a mentality, as a perception, as a way of thinking? To conclude, I would like to say, Mr President, that the amendments relating to public education, for all those who participated in the 2008 written competition, which have higher ratings and have been unfairly included, must be included. Our proposal on the issue of the two hundred and fifty-five multitude teachers of the closed 2010 list, as at last a clear word about the earthquakes and the children who gave pan-Hellenic examinations this year in Larissa's polypathic Law, Mr President. And finally, Minister, all we have to say is that we opposition to it is not doing. We let the children speak with the open letters. And when they say they're empty inside them, you have to ask yourself how with children's empty souls you can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kontogeorgios is called at Step. After Mr. Conkogeorgios, Mr. Athanasios will stop the procedure for the lifting of immunity by Mr. Velopoulos and we will continue in the order that has been mentioned. Until Mr. Kontogeorgios goes up, Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since the speaker has spoken, I should like to remind the House of what this is all about. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, said that we should protect the Chief of our parliamentary group, Mr Varoufakis, because he is uninformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u49	Give me the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u50	The answer to be given must be then, so that the people who are listening to us can understand it. Look, Mr President, Mrs Keramos has not dared to lie to Mr Brutsi. Mr. Brutsis is an expert politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u51	Tell us the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u52	It is a very simple answer, Mr President. The abolition of the base and its rise from 0.8 to 2 automatically abolishes the 1% premium. That's what stones know, not Yannis, Yannakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Conkogeor has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering my speech on the draft law we are discussing these days in the House, in plenary, I would ask all colleagues in the Representation, when they go to the Stepma, to stop finally moving our fingers. They don't address infants in kindergarten. They are addressed to their colleagues in the House, who are fully aware of their obligations and their rights in this House, which I believe are the same for all of us. And the big question that arises following the exit of the Step by the President of Mera25 Mr Varoufakis is who, at last, will protect us from the self-invited protectors of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy, loyal to its election commitments and following the historic confirmation of Greek citizens on 7 July 2019, brings to Parliament the present draft law on the upgrading of school, strengthening education and other provisions, following on from a series of legislation on the overall upgrading of public private education in our country. Stagnation, levelling, centralisation, chronic bureaucratic claws, lack of accountability and evaluation in our educational system, especially in primary and secondary education, is no longer attracting the new generation, so our students operate mechanically, saving lessons from a single book and this, as a necessity for their introduction to higher education. With this draft law, we aim to change school, to liberalise our teachers' creative initiative, to develop the critical thinking of our students, to decentralise our educational system, to transfer competences to the school itself and to its executive potential. In particular, we trust our teachers with greater freedom to choose a wide range of school books to finally get away from the parrot. To evaluate their students in alternative modern ways, to assign and develop team and individual work, to organise educational excursions, to make use of school facilities and off-hours for the benefit of pupils and local communities, to cooperate with local communities, in particular with local authorities, by organising joint actions. Secondly, the role of school director and teachers in positions of responsibility is strengthened. The Director's responsibilities and role in the governance of the school unit are increasing. The Director shall be responsible for the organisation of annual training courses, the award of teaching and in-service work. It values its educational staff and makes use of school facilities for events, conferences and various programmes that promote knowledge and innovation. Supporting bodies shall be established to the Director, on the basis of objective criteria such as the school coordinators, mentors, the liaison officer with the apprenticeship, the assistant directors, etc. Thirdly, a framework of increased transparency and accountability is established. Powers are removed from central services and transferred to the school unit, while an objective accountability system is built at the same time, which guarantees that decentralisation of decisions is done in the right way. A website is set up in each school unit that publishes the operations of the administration, ensuring the transparency and accessibility of SMEs. More flexible and functional schematics of school councils are being established. A comprehensive system of evaluation of school staff by their heads, as well as by teachers, anonymously and on an annual basis, is established. The Greek Diagnostic Test PISA, for the effectiveness of the educational system, for students from the Faculty and Graduate School, is established in the courses of Language and Mathematics, anonymously and without the extent to which it is considered. Fourthly, the process of evaluating teachers is regulated as an essential measure of a feedback mechanism for their work, with the aim of improving the quality of the education provided. The evaluation of education is not punishable, but the possibility of its application. It also operates as an incentive for choice of positions of responsibility. Fifthly, new education support structures, such as quality supervisors, are being introduced and existing ones are being strengthened, such as the CEDASY with an increase of one hundred new organic posts, five hundred psychologists and five hundred fifty social workers. School guidance is upgraded with the definition of those responsible for each training department and the establishment of advisory and guidance offices per school group. Objective criteria are laid down and the selection process of training staff and, finally, it is upgraded and modernised by depth and as a whole, church education, so that it can effectively perform its role. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in order to get our educational system out of the stagnation and stagnation, innovative solutions are needed, but also examples from good practices in other countries with more efficient educational systems. We all have to make a sense of responsibility towards the new generations of Greeks to leave aside populism and the words of air, to contribute to the joint effort for a better school that ensures all the necessary equipment for the present and the future of our students who release our educational potential into an environment of greater freedom, lasting support and increased accountability. There is no room for opposition in education, when the vast majority of society is demanding solutions and adaptations to a modern, innovative and creative school in Europe. The extreme cries of counterpopulation and the shameful and rampant attack on the Minister of Education, in addition to characterizing them, confirms the lack of arguments and an alternative proposal. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] SYRIZA's education policy with extreme ideological strangles, voices, threats and slogans has been condemned by the people. It belongs to the past and takes the place that she deserves in the can of the unusable. However, I am most moved by the agonizing interest of SYRIZA officials and especially of the former Minister of Education for Church Education, and will not surprise any of us if we see them all on the path that leads to the Grand Joy of Tinos in view of the celebration of the 15th August. Finally, and before I come to the Step, I declare that I am voting in favour of this draft law and I invite you all to do your duty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, so that we can move forward with the lifting of immunity and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Request for waiver of immunity Member: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the request for the waiver of immunity of the Member and President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 21 July 2021, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos be waived. I should like to point out here that Mr Velopoulos himself has asked for his immunity to be waived. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or adjudicating on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 108(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The floor shall always be given on request to the Member concerned by the request and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. So since the debate on the case of today's special agenda is closed, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I said before. So the case concerns the colleague and chairman of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. Of course, a colleague may ask for the floor after the President. The case concerns the infringement of Law 927/1979, as amended and in force, i.e. the anti-racist law, for some of its statements, positions, which he made on a broadcast. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start by saying that today Antonis Vezuropoulos died. For those who do not know him, he was the shepherd in Imia, who gave economic life to the rocky island, that is, the rocky island was acquired exclusively economic zone. We as a Greek Solution pay tribute, to lighten the soil that covers it, anyway. For those who forget, we do not forget. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was the first to ask for my immunity to be lifted, because for us words are being done. In our programme, we say in our statute that there should be no immunity from Members. This is the Greek Solution for any of us, and I say it every day. But I would like to tell you a little bit about the history of the case in order to understand what we are talking about. A number of months ago three criminals entered an old man's house in Messene. The old man had a hunting shotgun license. They went to kill him, and now, on the fight, where those three men went to leave, shot the old man, killing one of the three criminals. This man, these three criminals happened to be Roma. I say "successful", because crime is given because many of them are on the sidelines. It was self-defense, real self-defense. The man who shot was arrested by the police, but suddenly his gangs, the Roma, and started burning tires, threatening people to ask the head through the police station of the man who shot himself in self-defense. In the area of Sparta they went to the vice mayor and made him black in the woods, the people who threatened gods and demons themselves. There's videos, I got them ready to put them in court anyway. In the media they threatened every day: "We will get our blood back". A so-called spokesman said to them: "We cry, because they do not give us permission...", "...to be sure that we will not only disappear, we will also take people with us." Woman. So-called Roma: "I will set them on fire in the house and across the village, I will kill them, the whole village will disappear and set him on fire." That's what they were saying. Also: “We will take the law into our hands. We're gonna break everything. We'll burn them all." Published Roma: "It is over, no one will escape the village." That's what happened at Sparta, you know. They threatened to take the guns and enter the homes of the village's people. They brought cars back, set fires, shut down the streets. That was a few months ago. The media, curiously, did not show it much, perhaps so that they would not throw oil into the fire and did well at that time. Looking at all this and accepting from the people of the village to the side of a President to raise the issue as a major issue of the everyday life, of fear and terror of the village, I made statements, exactly the same as what I say here, for armouring the Greeks, for the right to self-defense, for the right to every criminal. I don't care what race it is, what race it is, whether it's Greek, Pontius, Saraksanus, Peloponnese, and he's stealing, and he's raped, and he's killing, my sentence is given, life. I said that at the press conference the next day. In other words, I talked about the three of us who happened to be Roma. Maybe it was something else. I'm not concerned with the genus and their origins. But that's what I was talking about. I wasn't interested in anyone's race. The criminal, whatever color he's got, I've said a thousand times, he's a criminal. And I say it was me who grew up as an immigrant in Germany from a young child and my parents were there. In our country it is not meant to be life-threatening by any group of people. They were threatening to kill people. They're the residents. They complained to me, they were sending me protest letters, and everything I said, and on the show, but in particular in my interview, it was what we believe. We made a law proposal for the possession. I mean, I'm being sued because I'm the one who's in favor of a gun. The MP will not be able to speak, a party cannot, on the basis of its statute, have in its programme a structured reason to say that we want weapons in the homes of the Greeks? It's not forbidden by any law. I was sued, though. The next day I analysed this matter thoroughly at another interview and said exactly what I mentioned last day. In our view - the lawyers or those who know ancient Greek will know - what does this matter mean? ‘Travel and hair shall be reviewed’. I mean, you're dealing with hair, because that's the case, I'm dealing with hair. Two people, of the hundreds of thousands of people, the Roma, went and made an intrusion. Here again, the ancient Greek expression "Syrian Turva". Those of you who know ancient Greek, "On the noisy and noises of the perpetrators", i.e. "Argi, bourgeois and saliva". They want to come out of their obscurity, two people. I get it. They want to show they're doing something. I understand that. But do you want to hear truths? I'll tell you now, because I've got evidence. Go to West Attica to see what is going on with the Roma, what crime is being committed because of poverty and poverty, what crime is there due to the state's mistakes, their isolation, their marginalisation, not their assimilation. And most of all, Greece is filled with Albanian, Bulgarian, and Romanian, who are awkward and are on the streets. How will they survive if they don't steal? Tell me you know everything, how these people survive. Ask the police. Take the police cards and see how much crime we have in the crimes, with thefts and various other issues. Listen, I'll say it straight away. The problem is too big with the Roma, too big. Because it is also paid by Greek Roma, with all those who let come from Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and go into Greece and declare Roma. Why am I saying that? I won't invoke the articles of the Constitution. I will not invoke Article 14, anyone can express and disseminate through the press their thoughts by complying with the laws of the state. I will not say about Article 60(1) of the Constitution and Article 75(2), Members have unlimited right of opinion and vote against conscience. In accordance with Rule 62, such authorisation shall be granted to the House, provided that the request of the public prosecutor concerns an offence which is not linked to the performance of their duties. In other words, I asked the committee to do something that violates the Constitution itself, the lifting of my immunity. Because this was done in the context of the duties of a Member of Parliament, a president of a party. What I said - I repeat - I don't take them back and I'll never take them back, because I meant them. And I say: my word was purely political. I have referred to our planning positions. We may disagree, we may not agree, but racism? If they were Saraksan, what if they were something else? Can someone burn, Pontius or Cretan, don't I care what it burns and threatens the others? Can society accept the fall in the political speech of a Member within the framework of the programme and the authorities of the party deposited in the Marios Ice? This is my personal objection. But I'm asking for my immunity to be lifted. As a Greek Solution, we are not afraid to talk and we will continue to talk. We've already been cut off from all channels. We've already been cut off from all private TV stations. No one goes to a Member of the Greek Solution, is called on the President of the Party for years. Isn't that annoying any of you in here? For pluralism and democracy? Of course, this also applies to the other parties in the counterpopulation, but they are represented somewhere. On Facebook, the unborn Hoaxes, this team of bands that downloads all our posts. Cut out of YouTube. And I'm asking you. Does it really not bother you that someone who controls the news and filters and downloads statements of MPs, parties, specific opinions and perceptions? I am not talking about epidemiological gifts, but you are not bothering the neo-democratics because you have power now and you think you are doing everything. There will come some time when you'll be back in opposition and then see how you like it that no one will ever come out of you on a channel, if there is the status that exists now, in the Greek media. As a Greek Solution, we're not afraid. We will speak, say our opinion and go to court, because immunity for us is not the case. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we are not hiding behind parliamentary immunity, but the political voice must be shielded. I repeat: it needs to be shielded. You can't let anyone out here on a radio afraid of a citizen who's gonna sue him for something he didn't like. Yeah, he didn't like anything, he's suing you. This is the broad interpretation of the term, but it cannot be considered as repeating immunity to other crimes. But the Member's right to serve his principles, to serve his values, to serve his party and his homeland and his right to speak a barrier will never enter, whoever he is, no matter what he says, no matter how much he is. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] For the Greek Solution, it is true that the good thing is not to say it well, but the one who says it well, to do it properly and wisely. We therefore call for the lifting of our immunity, for my own personal reasons, for just one reason, because what we say must be done and what must be in the direction of the consistent attitude of a politician - and I do - to the citizens. There is, however, a great 'but'. We are opening the bottleneck of Hail - I believe that, and I do not care - but you must protect our right to speak. You in the New Democracy - and I take the floor from this - must tell the Prime Minister and the ministers who give millions of euros to the channels that the rest of the parties must also be represented on an equal footing with their percentage on the channels. It cannot be said that the channels of the New Democracy have fainted all the parties to the opposition and that none of you complain. If you want democracy in New Democracy, remember one thing: Democracy means pluralism and not a state-of-the-art conception and speech of the rest. This is authoritarianism. I say it as a friendly conversation and a quote from my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Is there a colleague who wants to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u59	May I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Mylonakis, your Chief said so. Of course, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u61	Every Member is independent. He can say whatever he wants. What does my president say? How do you know what I'm gonna say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u62	Since the defendant has said the greatest thing and asks for it to be lifted, that's why I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u63	That's not what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u64	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say what I have said to the President now, Mr Athanasios, who is also the chairman of the Ethics Committee. This situation must be stopped. When the Greek Solution from the beginning said - and I think we all agree - that the MP for offences that he does outside his parliamentary capacity, apart from his political speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Mylonakis, I beg your pardon, but if you want to speak without a mask, come to Stepma and zero your time, because I didn't tell you before you started.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Because someone said about the Step and the vaccine, I do, for some personal reasons, have not taken the vaccine, but I don't even get sick of a coronary even though I've been back once and for all in Greece. Others take vaccines and go to the Presidential Palace and sicken and transport the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u68	Let's get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u69	Okay, calm down, please. Can I talk for two minutes? I'll talk and I'll come down. We have seen many times, we who have also dealt with journalism in the courts. In fact, the Member of Parliament, like all citizens, must go to his natural judge right from the outset and I was one of those who have always argued that he should not even pass through the ethics committees if there is a question of sues - a complaint from a citizen to a Member of Parliament, which concerned his pre-parliamentary status or during which he is a Member of Parliament if he is not in his political duties. But I also told the President, Mr Athanasios, a legal person, that he must stop this story. We'd seen that with Members of Parliament, Mera25. We have acted accordingly, as we should have acted, even though the same one has called for the waiver of immunity. But what matters is that we do nothing to change Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I was told by the President, Mr Athanasios, because we cannot get into the matter. All right, we cannot get in the way because the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. To change the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u70	It's from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u71	It's not from the Constitution. It is not from the Constitution, Mr Secretary of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u72	If you read the Constitution, you will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u73	No, look here, she's president and she can answer you. So I do not read, but Mr Athanasios can answer that question that I asked him. In front of him, I'm not saying it behind him. If he's in the Constitution, let's see that. But if it's from the Rules of Procedure, it has to change. That's a fairy tale, someone going out here talking about their point of view, saying the same thing on TV or radio, and one or two of the Roma come in and sue. Watch what can be done in court. I'll tell you what, because I've dealt with too many courts with lawsuits and lawsuits. They may be gathered out of the courtroom, which will be the president being tried, a hundred fifty or two Roma and start shouting. So he's looking for an honor? Are we happy? Mr Velopoulos himself asked for the waiver of immunity. Very good. What should we do, however, to change this regime? Only what has to do with our parliamentary duties. This ends. It must be a barrier to stopping this story, because at the end of the day we will all be in courtrooms for everything that no citizen will like. I say to you that in the State vote ours was a Roma candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, the vote only includes one case today, Mr Velopoulos. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials responsible may assist you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on the request for waiver of immunity. Since many colleagues are currently involved in committees, the system will remain open for twenty minutes. Immediately afterwards, we will continue the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] Until the count is completed and the result is announced, we will return to the agenda for legislative work. Parliamentary spokesman for KINAL Mr Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u76	I have the impression that the Prime Minister has lost his form in communication. Perhaps she has been lured from the sense of self-sufficient and inexpensive hegemony she is experiencing. The day before yesterday, with 2% at the minimum wage and, in fact, with disproportionate communication, he had a negative time to entertain his philosophic face and the neokesian leader who wants to show up. It repairs the image that strives to create with the 13 euros a month. Yesterday, perhaps for the first time in almost all his speech, he attempted to bring about a progressive and liberal reform of a law which, in my humble opinion, is in the opposite direction. The regulation of the bill, one by one, is linked to the continuous and consistent effort of the Prime Minister to create the image of the liberal politician, which he considers to be somewhat hereditary. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in this Chamber can question a self-proof truth. The tectonic changes that we are now living in, and the white pages that are unfolding before us express outrageously call for education - in the broadest possible sense - to be the most urgent national case, which will mean indelibly the effort of the place not only for economic reconstruction and recovery but for real regeneration and social advancement. We are often talking about development projects with a decade's horizon and public projects that extend far beyond the narrow horizon of a government service. If for growth it applies once, for education there is a hundred. It is a matter, literally, of national survival that concerns the country's greatest comparative advantage, our human capital and the new generation that will live to change things in the new era that it has already augured. A era that predominates the cognitive society, where science and social practices are constantly evolving and transformed, where the means and conditions of uptake of knowledge go through thousands of streets. I remember several years ago a speech by George Papandreou here in Parliament. When we were looking to legislate on the multiple book, he was talking about e-book, which is why, today, he will substantially replace university writings. If, then, there is an area that requires deep and brave reform is the area of education and education, not for reasons of justice and return to old choices, but for reasons relating to the train of history and our participation in it. Gentlemen of the Government, I claim that your education policy does not serve either visionaryly or institutionally the modern needs of the area, it does not modernise or democratise the structures of education. It does not adapt our educational system to the multiple challenges of our times. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally lived through all the reforms and major areas which have been attempting throughout the post-population process, and I deeply feel the pride of a party, which hopefully and visionally daring them: the democratic and progressive school of the 1980s, the modernization of the 1990s, which actually introduced the ideas of continuing training and evaluation, the framework of 2010, which was a collective decision and an expression of a great consensus. All of them went ahead and changed things forward and all, at the same time, left unfinished efforts and gaps. But what is the key lesson from this experience? That they all found resistance to possessed possessions, they all proceeded with obstacles. I remember the assessment of the refusal and Gerasimos Arsenis to come down to the 2000 elections, which lost, on the front, the 'Save well, Gerasimos'. All of them have had a condition of success. No change has been established without the consent of the educational community at the end of the day. Dialogue was never easy. The rights claimed by the teachers' unions also met social acceptance. But they don't go any further if they don't go against the current. Today - one more reason in our cognitive age - it is a matter of teaching to define the functions and content of the school. It is a matter of the educational community not just supporting but combining the major changes and reforms needed and no one can put a brake on this need as well. That is why our proposal insists on fundamental and irreplaceable reforms. Is there a comprehensive planning without a genuinely national education board, which could draw up the national strategy? Are there parallel abolitions, mergers, assimilations of university and school units without an agreed overall strategy for university education? Is it possible to award and incorporate the upgrading of middle education without support from the bodies of the National Licensor, the Fullday School and tomorrow of the High School, which are necessary and which will in fact give quality and value to the educational process? What substantial consultation has taken place in the series of bills that you have converted into laws, whether it relates to the same degrees of private colleges as public universities, whether it relates to university police, the basis for introduction or the operation of schools within the university? But your policy in its implementation already creates huge problems for young people who have a dream of studying, and the cuts you set are closing their way. What have you done in practice with the initiatives that you call them'reforms' and which are nothing other than fragmentary arrangements, but which have a clear orientation? They shall be decided without substantial consultation and elementary dialogue with the educational community. You are turning each collective body into a decision-making centre for the operation of the school from the decision-making centres, effectively marginalizing the association of teachers. You form school councils where the school does not have the responsibility for function and decisions. You appoint a powerful director to replace the collective address. Restore from the back door a quasi-inspector who cancels any prospect of overall evaluation and ensures that mono-faces and generally appointed organs through lashverisations of party assignments obey the commands of political leadership. It is the deposit of the enforcement of individual in collective, state control in the autonomy of the school, the administrative in teaching, and it really seemed to me by reading the bill foreign what the Prime Minister said yesterday, defending the autonomy of the school and the liberalism that he allegedly distinguishes his function. The question is what model do you follow, of the American liberal school, where the autonomy of pedagogics imposes democratic and participatory rules of operation or even of the Anglo-Saxon with strict norms in full, however, autonomy from the state? I'll tell you what, none of them. Your sign is liberalism, your practice is a deep state and a reproducible partition. This is not a reform for us, and that is why we are unable to vote at first. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the formation of a party controlled and unreliable education administration is undermined by very wise and proper and already very delayed - trying to legislate - an evaluation. The specific aspects of the administration of education - how to structure and staff, structure and function - with the absolute party and anxietal image form a framework for manipulating evaluation by teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute. The fact that this assessment is common to the 2002 evaluation means absolutely nothing, because in 2002 we did not have such an understanding and practice in the administration of education and we did not have an authoritarian educational environment. Our own reform concept aims to create a culture of evaluation in all levels of education with key objectives to improve schooling and to implement an internal evaluation system to strengthen the education provided. We regard evaluation not as an end in itself but as a field of research and initiative that will unleash creative educational forces. The core of our proposal is the creative transformation of the function of the teachers associations and the strengthening of the responsibility of teachers, so that the school and teachers as a whole and the educational community can shape a more active role in the multiple requirements of learning, knowledge, teaching. I fear that your insistence on this type of evaluation will remain on paper, as will many of your options so far. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I understand that a guide to your decisions always has the so-called "real", public feeling. You measure it in public every day and on the basis of the perception that it has or brings about by opinion polls you legislate. But you make sure that this current is formed through a communal storm. No citizen - obviously - is happy with a teacher who is bored in doing his job. But don't insult the educational community! Teachers who have always existed in the country and have been elbows of its development today. No citizen is happy with a university in a state of violence and anomaly. We have universities and schools that actually make too much work with little resources. And with an unequal, selective and unequal work separating teachers in first and second grades, no citizen is happy. However, cracks have already begun that by laws such as the one you are introducing today are expanding them daily. It's not a good counselor, polling and public feeling made from the top. It would be a good advisor to go against the current to make reforms, because if you claim that you are a reformist force, I will tell you that these are microdirections that are not actually going to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Now Mr Christos Giannoulis had the floor from SYRIZA and immediately thereafter Mr. Jason Fotillas from New Democracy was prepared. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. You know, these dense programs are causing you to forget your embassy glasses and see blurredly. However, I have the impression that the political leadership of the Ministry of Education also sees the prospect of even the same bill that it brings today. I really want to recommend to those who write Mr Mitsotakis' words to try to appreciate the answer, because it sounds very happy to hear what has been said, "seek the truth to your opponent's arguments." But you forgot you were fighting with the truth. You have forgotten that you have a serious problem between matching what you say at least with the credibility that it is that and it is not a enlarged lie. I wouldn't start with the evaluation, but I just now have an intern performance on how you mean the evaluation in the public sphere. Just now, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, the Minister responsible for demolished, effectively neutralised the SYRIZA's draft law on the Civil Aviation Authority - I tell you as an example - where he provided an international competition for the service of the six-member executive board, was abolished - it is for the safety of this flight - and instead, four appointed - all worthy - from the one minister alone. A male principle! Is that how the evaluation is going to be done? In these procedures teachers will be subjected to evaluation, which, as you can hear, even if they want it, are you and your political credentials afraid of them? Mrs Keramemos is also in such a panic - although she is missing from the Chamber, and I hope Mrs Matute does not regard this as an inappropriate and incomprehensible attack - which began to threaten MPs with sues. Are you kidding? Because the expression "is too much money" is out of the core of what you're going to do, are you threatening to sue me? Haven't you heard the President and former Prime Minister talk to you about your real political goal, that you want to open avenues of profit in private colleges and businesses? And you've been caught by the skilled study and eloquence to threaten Rallia Christidou with a lawsuit? Really? Do you know what our people say? "Where we were owed..." I don't go on. In fact, with what trust, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mrs. Kerameos, will you give the model of political dignity and political honesty to Greek citizens when you yourself as Minister of Administrative Reform flew to the streets school guards? You guys are the same ones who have fired the PES teachers on one night. Do they forget about these? Do you have the impression that this stigma is erased with sponge because it's written with chalk? It's written with blood, sweat and agony of thousands of workers who, with various terrain, like the ones you invent into the bill, threw them on the street! I would ask you to think about this: neither with threats nor with sues, nor with paraphrases, nor with perversions, nor with fine reasons, should this debate be held. For me, ladies and gentlemen, I always have two eyes in my face, which Mr Philadelphia has mentioned. They're my son's two eyes. He is seventeen years old and he is one of those who have tried the consequences of the atrocity and vengeance that appears and proves to be against young people. But why do you hate them? Are you afraid of them, why would they question you? This has happened over the centuries and you should be happy that it is happening. So these two eyes say something very simple: at a time when you vote, think that your signature with the responsibility and conscience of a Member of Parliament is showing the future of a child who, at some point, will be tearing down his dream. It's what when we quote you, you laugh ironically like they don't exist. I can assure you that the cutter and the secret cuts you have in the special grades are colourless, they have no party, they are your voters. You will find it when you come out of the glass sphere of the space time that Mrs. Kerameos has put you, which obviously what she did with her entry into politics as a Member of the State can do again. You're going to the world! You will have the responsibility of consciousness and the responsibility to look into the eyes of the respective Paris, but who will not be the son of a SYRIZA MP, but will be the son of a voter and will say "Why have you done this to me?", "Why have you deprived me of my dream?", "What right do you show my future with a routine signature?" All I see from your expressions is that today you expect to perform your party duty and start your holidays. It's not like that for education. For education, what is the 'drug' is also the 'drug' of credibility and politics. Don't make Savvopoulos vindicate when he was singing and writing about the stateman. Do not vindicate Savvopoulos, even though your political friend, for the desert representatives of the impersonal Parliament! Today we each have a responsibility separately to our children and to the next generations. We don't have a responsibility for the political future of Keramea, he's gonna figure it out! Having a political friendship with Mitsotakis, he will find the edge, as all those who are parasitic in the ultimate state of Maximos will find at the expense of Greek MPs and the New Democracy. Our children will not have much chances and we must not deprive them of one routine vote. Please thermically, before giving in to party discipline, put your mind well - I will again invoke Savvopoulos - that the eyes of the children do not leave you much room to hide. You won't hide from the children! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr. Jason Fotillas has the floor and immediately thereafter Mrs. Athanasia Anagnostopoulou will take the floor from SYRIZA. After Mrs. Anagnostopoulou and according to the programme, the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Syrigos, will speak immediately after Mr. Kastanides. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by congratulating the Minister and the Minister of Education on the key successive reforms that they are attempting in the field of education in general, modernising and upgrading all levels of education, according to European and international standards. It is what I usually say that we choose to look towards Europe when you choose to join in European standards. The draft is a necessary and logical follow-up to the legislation already passed by the Ministry of Education on the overall upgrading of school, vocational education and training and lifelong learning. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has proved in practice that it conflicts with the catastrophic populism and its representatives in the House, forming the appropriate conditions for tomorrow's modern and upgraded school. It conflicts with all those who accuse us of bribeing young people with freedom pass, when they wear them - listen, listen! - retrospective introduction to higher education institutions. Solve me a question: If rewarding those young people who are vaccinated is called "bribery", telling all the 18-year-olds who have not written well in the pan-Hellenic "vote me and I will make sure you enter any school you want without any exams" what is it? You must be sadly desperate to SYRIZA to take advantage of the bitterness of students who have not been able to go through their first choice and work for them on the altar of your micropolitical interests. I, personally, as a father of two minor children, feel very proud and also optimistic about the fact that I contribute today to the creation of an even better school, which will provide more and better supplies for the future and for the present. The same proud and optimistic feeling that our excellent universities are finally emerging and conquering the position they deserve on the international academic map. For example, I refer to the Aristotle University of Medicine, which will operate in the new academic year with more than nine hundred and fifty students from at least twenty different countries. Finally, our universities are becoming even more extroverted in the same direction and our schools. We have ensured the autonomy of universities and now it is time to ensure and strengthen the autonomy and freedom of our schools. With this bill, we aim to liberalise the creative initiative of teachers and managers close to students. We are aiming, in other words, at a decentralised system, where decisions on the choice of the book and the curriculum, on the choice of the way and the timing of evaluation of pupils, will be taken by the teachers themselves and not by the Minister concerned. Is there really anyone questioning the fact that the teacher is well aware of the needs of the school at which he teaches from any central body? Apparently not. In the context of the autonomy of the school unit, there is also a multiple book with two expressions. The first manifestation concerns the free choice of a book by the teacher himself, and the second consists of the fact that all educationally approved books will be available in a digital library where the teacher can refer students to, in order to combine sources and books. Through digital transformation and multiple book students are encouraged and pushed to cultivate their criticism of thought and are blocked by parrot and sterile meltdown. The second pillar of the draft law is the establishment of an evaluation mechanism for the work of teachers. Seven out of ten Greek citizens take a positive view of the evaluation of teachers. Expected because no educational system, no system in general can be improved if it is not first assessed. The evaluation process is a crucial prerequisite to reflecting the positive elements, but also weaknesses, in order to improve our educational system. The evaluation is not planned to avenge teachers, such as monotonously replicate some of the "pads" of Antipoliticism. Why would a teacher refuse to be evaluated when he's rewarded for it? There is no punishment, but there is only an improvement. Our aim is to provide better educational work through vocational - and not just - for the development of teachers. The third pillar is about strengthening education structures for the benefit of the effective support of the autonomous school. Skill workshops through new themes, such as respect for the environment, robotic, entrepreneurship, new curriculum programs, English in kindergarten, are only some of the reforms that will start in September and will strengthen teaching work. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill upgrades school, education itself, creating life prospects for every child. And I wonder on this point whether we are surprised by this bill today. Does this bill make us, even to the slightest, inconsistent with our election commitments? The exact opposite. This bill comes to literally apply the election announcements of the New Democracy in relation to the overall upgrade of our educational system. Despite the pandemic, we proceeded and proceeded in areas for a modern and upgraded school, reform areas for a school more free of charge for all children. We'll make it. We aim higher, we can do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u81	Thank you too, Mr Fotella, for keeping time. Mrs Sia Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like half a minute outside the time of my speech for an answer due to the State Secretary. I will not ask her to withdraw the inappropriate expression that Mrs. Jufi and I were on an orderly service. Let him stay in the Minutes of the House. Let the Minutes of the House stick to everything that has been said in the committees, so that the Greek citizens understand who want to use, work "Me too" for political responsibilities. I won't say anything else. I come to the bill and to what's happening in education. Sixty-four thousand signatures have been collected for the university's introductory examinations against the Minister of Education. Remind me once and for all that this thing has been done before to gather signatures. And you know why no signatures have been collected? At least from the Postpopulation and after the introductory examinations, which were not completely affluent, the care centres put class barriers - this state, whatever government has managed to create a social protection zone. This social protection zone was young people. He closed the state's eye on young people to show him confidence: "Get out the exams, these are the terms." All trust. Never a young man - we all went through these tests - did not protest. He may have said that it was harder for a year to say anything, but he never complained that the Minister himself puts his hand in and makes a violent redistribution that takes the world out. Violent redistribution. As you do in income, as you do at work, as you do everywhere. Yeah, that's what you're consistent with. Violent, irreversible and obscene redistribution, even when it concerns young people. Don't tell me no one of the MPs of the government's majority that that makes sense. I said that to the committee. Countries such as France, which have a good educational system - and the Minister knows so, I know - are suspending the Baccalaureate exams after two centuries because there was a pandemic. Do you know what the Minister of Education said there? "We do not want to blame the students." A serious Ministry of Education, that is, light throws it on students. What's coming in and our Ministry of Education tells us? That with "2" and "3" would pass. It creates in society the concept of targeting young people, that they are something useless that they spend with '2' and '3'. Madam Minister, until the bill's passed, I need a study from the Ministry of the past twenty years showing this. Instead of throwing light on the tests themselves, the system presents signs of degeneration. In the 21st century, if we continued with this logic of confidence towards the new generation, we would have to reduce the care centres and because the education centre certifies knowledge, the examinations are for the distribution to universities, we would have to improve this system in order to reduce class inequalities, reduce papaya. That's reform. What did Mrs. Kerameau do? He sends the kids to private colleges. But it's wrong. I used it myself. It's not bad to send the kids to private colleges. Oh, no. To legalize state funding in private colleges is the big issue. This is what Mrs Keramos does, while constantly reducing the prestige, funding from public universities. Educational evaluation. Here, too, we have a tradition in Transmolitanism, all of these democratic conquests that the Transmigration has accumulated many times without the best way, distortions have been created in the course of the struggles of a people for too many decades because it is not just postmultiple it is before. So instead of going to remedial moves, respecting the democratic tradition of this place, Mrs. Kerameos, Mr. Hadjidakis, everyone - yes, you are consistent - come to cut off the thread, to cut off society, to deprive her of these strings that make her to be racing, claiming, collective and solidarity. That's what they do with the young people. Fear. Looking for the base, even for unteached lessons. And we come to the evaluation: 'you do not want to be assessed' and'relation downwards' and all that. How's Mrs. Kerameau? He thinks we're out of education, we don't know other countries' educational systems, and he's coming here to enlighten us. It's cutting everything good that's been done since the Postpopulation, and then it's smacking, what a policeman does, who wants to cut back on the resistance. He's smuggling into traditions, supposedly, in foreign models without knowing them, without being assimilated, without doing anything. What did the pandemic show us, Mrs. Kerameau? Parts with twenty-seven students. I invite you all and the Members of the New Democracy to tell me: have you ever been in a class with twenty-seven teenagers? Do you know there what great skills demonstration - which you like - has a teacher to make so that within ten squares he can keep twenty-seven teenagers? SYRIZA made the POPs. Don't you like them? Press on that line. School reform, funding, education reforms need time and money. Without these there are no reforms. What are you doing? You're intimidating. Fear all the time, a conservative of incredible. The inspector, the director and a hierarchy appointed. What does Mrs. Kerameau say? "We're dismissing powers. We want decentralisation." We're avoiding powers - notice - what is it? I dismiss powers so as not to be in the eye of the cyclone to answer, but I transfer them to a hierarchy that seems to be independent, but most of them are appointed by me, I make a party state and I intimidate the teacher. If that is what you consider reform! And I would like, Mrs Keramos, to discuss other models and support structures that these models have for teachers. A last word about the multiple book, because that seems to be making the big change, which we have been asking for for many years. Study programmes have been cancelled since 2018, which we started, if I'm not mistaken. They've been cancelled for no reason. There are still no curriculum projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u83	In history first - first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u84	History, above all. That's right. Not only have they been abolished, but now they are working on curriculum projects, and the same people who are there will go to write books and books, go into competition, have the lead in competition, where there will be books from schoolchildren, I don't know who, from large publishing houses, and the multiple book is gone. Study programs, to be serious, a book guide and libraries reliable and decent in all schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Syrigos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the subject of higher education following yesterday's debate here yesterday on the basis of the minimum import base. The main question is whether there is a problem with higher education in Greece. In order to be able to respond, we must make numbers and statistics. Yesterday in the House two completely different figures were heard. The Prime Minister said that the percentage of those leaving the university is about 40%. On the contrary, the Chief of Staff Responsibility referred to a figure of 4.1%. The difference is huge so he can pass unnoticed. There can be no 40% and 4.1%. Looking for the source from which Mr Tsipras' data come, I found that they are based on the European Commission's education and training monitoring report, to which the relevant report of the Bank of Greece refers. It is easy to see that 4.1% of the committee's report, to which Mr Tsipras referred, does not include higher education. It refers to those who leave early secondary education and as the text expressly says, it is between eighteen and twenty - four years old. It is quite clear from the text, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. In English it uses the term ‘yearly updates from education and training (age 18-24)’. His translation into Greek is "persons who leave early education and training from eighteen to twenty-four". It is obvious that it concerns secondary education and not higher education. They're people who leave school after high school. After all, the only reference to the age of eighteen should concern opposition. There's no way anyone could leave the university before he even entered the university. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go see what really happens in higher education. I will use the data from the report of the Educational Policy Centre of the General Assembly of 2021. I believe that opposition cannot say that the GFCM is a government body. According to GSEE's report, eighty-one thousand four hundred eighty-three people entered Greek universities in 2019. That same year they graduated forty - eight thousand four persons. The percentage of graduates, therefore, based on the GFCM report, is 58.9%. That's the reality. On the relevant page, which I will present in the Minutes of the House, sub-sectors with graduation rates from the country's SGIs are also mentioned. We also see evidence here, Mr Philly, confirming the experience. For example, we find that graduates from schools dealing with education or health sciences have a high graduation rate of around 77%. Instead, agriculture, forestry and fisheries have a graduation rate of around 41%. We therefore have a serious problem. In the European Union, the average graduates are 76%, in Greece the average graduates are 59%. It's the evidence from the U.S.S.A., which I'm filing. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, we are first after Turkey in the number of undergraduate students. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because you are supposed to be primarily interested in social problems, it is clear that we have a very serious social problem ahead of us. We have most students throughout the European Union in proportion, and we also have the smallest number of graduates in proportion. What's that for? It is due to objective reasons. Retrospectively someone who has entered a department may not be interested in the subject matter of this section. It may be due to social or economic reasons, it is obliged to stop its studies. But there is also a reality that the figures reveal to us. There is only one survey in the thirty departments with the lowest import bases in recent years. These are sections in which the best students usually enter on the basis of a little more than '10'. However, there are in these departments and a very large number of students moving between '0.6' and '5'. While the average graduation in Greece is 59%, in these sections, the figures of which I will present immediately after the Minutes of the House, are around 20%. These are parts of which the graduation rate is between 3% and 8%. Anyone who doesn't understand that university isn't the fourth grade, but another level of training, let's look at these elements that I'm filing. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is objective as well as obvious: if anyone does not have the minimum academic knowledge, the minimum academic background to attend the university will never be able to graduate from the university. For these reasons, the minimum import base has been selected. It used to be a strict number, '10'. This system was problematic: if easily themes were raised, then they all went through '10'. If difficult issues went in, then a lot of people were cut off, as they shouldn't, I'd say. For this reason, the minimum import base established in February is derived from the average performance of the candidates in each of the four scientific fields of the pan-Hellenic examinations. This year, the minimum import base ranged between 8.27 in the scientific field of the economy and information technology and 9.7 in the field of health schools. I would expect to hear from the Qualified Opposition another proposal seriously on the social problem, which I have just mentioned. Instead, what did we hear from the Chief of Staff Response in this Chamber yesterday? We have heard the promise of entering the HEIs of those who failed this year because of the introduction of the minimum base. No proposal on how to deal with the problem of importers that never end. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, various letters from candidates have been read in this Chamber. I consider it extremely important, Minister, for the Greek educational system and for the quality of our institutions that none of these letters were questioned. In a country in which we have a problem in general with the institutions, this is very important. Fifty-seven years have passed since Evangelos Papanoutsos, as Secretary General of the Ministry of Education, introduced a new way of introducing into higher education. The responsibility for carrying out the activities left the universities and went to the Ministry of Education. The reason why this reform was then due to the fact that in the 1960s there were very serious suspicions about the inconsistency of the tests carried out within the universities. Since 1980, the present system of pan-Hellenic examinations has been established, which in their basic conception remains the same. It is therefore very important for a country like ours, which does not see the stability of its institutions, that it has created an institution which is incomplete, which is about entry into higher education, which is also the basic system of social mobility in the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, please have a minute of your tolerance. Candidates compete on equal terms to claim a place at the public university through a strict but objective and pragmatic process. The letters raised issues relating solely to the examination of special courses, focusing on the country's architectural schools. Perfect systems don't exist. The perfect systems only make them totalitarian regimes and they are perfect, because no one dares to question them. We are constantly judged in democracy, but we are well judged on the basis of the result. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, if in some extremely specific cases - objectively, very few - there is some distortion that could not be predicted, we will find it. When? When the results of September come out, not by letters read in the Chamber. The results will be carefully studied and we are here, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, to make some corrective moves, if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate students and their families are more than just voters' clients to throw them "do not worry, if we become the government of time, you will enter where you wanted". As much as we want to close our eyes in reality, so will reality come and violently disprove our illusions and ideas. I hope that soon in this country we will only stop talking about the number of people admitted to a university school. We must finally consider the number of graduates. With the minimum basis of introduction, we are finally facing a serious social problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Castanides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, because we are also judged on the result of democracy, I assume that the government will correct a strange size produced this year by the minimum import base. In other words, a candidate who raised about twenty - one thousand molecules does not go to his preference school, but one who has four thousand molecules less, because the first, who was not introduced into his preference school and with much more molecules than the second, managed to have a minimum deviation from the minimum basis for introduction to special courses, while scanning in the other courses. So, Mr Secretary, you will consider the results and I estimate that you will rectify, not to mention examples of other things that would probably make you, as government, all of you more careful. Because I am watching my interlocutors - as you know, I have no written speeches - I was surprised to see the use of the data from the GSP study by the State Secretary. What did the Undersecretary say? In 2019, eighty-one thousand people were introduced to higher education institutions and graduated about fifty-eight thousand, if I remember the number correctly. Interesting, because the fifty-eight thousand graduated in 2019 are students admitted long before the eighty-three thousand year of import. What the government should have done is to monitor those introduced in 2019, the eighty-one thousand, after four, five years - depending on the school - six or seven what happened and the percentage that graduated after those years on the import number in 2019. The rest suggests a...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u89	It's much worse than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u90	I don't know that. Bring the same element of yours and testify to it, so I can judge you. I'm judging what you testified to. Until you bring what you calculate to be your right, let me criticise the way in which you make mathematical calculations and inventions. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has the hefty title of 'School Upgrade and empowerment of teachers'. In fact, none of this is happening. What the government is trying to do with its regulations is to introduce a method of administration and pedagogical supervision of our educational system to the first and second degrees. That's what she does. He's got to do it. Of course, there must be a system of pedagogical supervision and education administration, but it does so negatively and with many failures. I shall mention a few briefly, because it is another central issue that I want to develop. It gives special powers to a single person, such as the training director and the head of the school unit. And when we give superpowers to some single-faced institutions, which are not selected in the most objective and transparent procedures, then we must be afraid of the party effect of educational regulations. Secondly, in a number of the activities of the school unit, we weaken the association of teachers. Why? Let me give you an example. The teachers' association must have exclusive competence - always in cooperation with the head of the school unit - for external activities. If you want to measure the teacher’s ability to organize the extra-educational activity, make it part of the evaluation of his ability to organise them properly with imagination and efficiency, not to transfer responsibility elsewhere. I must add here the special power you give self-government, namely the non-school actors in relation to the school unit board. Selfgovernment must be involved, but it must not be the majority of the school board. The failures even reach the extent to which there are different choices in terms of, for example, the qualifications of certain training managers. Please tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the head of the school unit when it is judged to share his formal qualifications must first be assessed in the language if the person assessed has received an equivalent degree from the IATP because he is a diploma from another country. That right where you draw it from? Because the director of the school unit, who will be judged on his formal qualifications, has already been recognized the equivalent of the diploma obtained by a British, say, university and has already assessed his language skills. You now tell him "To give you the opportunity to judge your essential qualifications, you must go before a committee to examine the language." Who told you this? And you only do that for a certain category of teachers, not for their superiors. Why don't you do it for training managers? Why don't you do it for the regional directors? Do you understand what you're adjusting? Well, because such a great deal could be developed, you will allow me to say a few things about the substance of the matter, because I listen constantly to exaggerations about 'educational reforms'. I will try to contribute to what constitutes a substantial educational change, what constitutes a radical reform in education. So we have to agree on the fundamental principles that need to govern an effort essential for changing education, for reforming education. First principle: Who hides behind the proposals on changes and reforms in education? Is the ironic logic, the ferrous spirit of the Exarcholus of the Athens School of Philosophy, or the fresh reformal look of the Kakritis? We have to agree on this first. I want you to tell me, there at the government's staff, what a conclusion I have to make about who is behind your so-called reform when I follow the uncomplicated author of your bill to understand the quality of the proposed reforms. In Article 2, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the second part is to improve the quality of public education, through a substantial reorganization of the institutional structure of education. If this is the author of your bill, then I have to tell you that there is a collapse of any expectation of the desired changes in education. Because I raised the question of who is behind the reforms. Do you want me to read it again? ‘The aim of the second part is to upgrade the quality of public education by making the institutional construction of the structures of education effective.’ One example I give you, because I don't have time. Principle two: How are reforms done? This is a problem of modern Greek life. I will tell you what is happening in some countries of Europe, particularly in Scandinavia. On a cross-party basis, they plan a system of change in their educational systems. After concluding, in a spirit of inter-party consultation, they set a transitional period for the experimental implementation of those who have thought and are going to implement. The conclusions of the experimental implementation incorporate them, in their initial plans, if they need to bring about changes, and after several years they apply the reform they have decided on. This is not just a problem of today's government, it is a time-consuming modern Greek political life. Third fundamental principle: What is the upgraded school? The upgraded school is, in particular, the school of the upgraded and enlightened teacher, the teacher who has very good studies and who, throughout his education obligations, has continuously influencing knowledge, is also improved in teaching and scientific terms. I would ask you to find me which training system the government proposes. There is no integrated training structure. Even regional training centres in the thirteen regions of the country, the PASOK project, which could do serious training work, do not exist. What, then, is the government's training scheme?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u91	Please finish, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u92	One final sentence, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] Fourth principle: Upgraded school is the school that has chosen very serious pedagogical methods. He said that even the relationship within the class between a schoolteacher, a teacher and the students' educational community must change. Not from a seat, but around the tables and in the middle of the teacher, with the participation of the students. If we do not agree on these fundamental principles, we are not going to have any educational reform to have serious, resonance and implementation over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the debate on the bill for a moment, so that I can inform you of the result of the vote on the request for the waiver of immunity from Mr Velopoulos. A total of 272 Members voted on the Velopoulos case. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 263 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 9 MPs. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the bill. Before I give the floor to Mr Skourletis, I will say that all the parliamentary representatives have asked for a dentistry, as they deserve. But that's what it's all about. Because the Chiefs have spoken, time is half. But we will not keep him, because he has been covered by everyone except Mr Pafile, who has not spoken at all. We'll see him next year. There will be a tolerance, in view of the gravity of the bill. Otherwise the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure has been exceeded. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that Mr Syrigos has dropped the lot in internal distribution to have the glorious role to speak on the basis of statistics. Of course, it seems to compare unparalleled things. I agree very much and endorse the remarks made by Mr Kastanidis, which very clearly showed that the information he has submitted to us is not available to lead to the conclusions he has put forward. If you want, Commissioners of Education, you could - you have the data - ask the schools and see exactly one year in the year when candidates are introduced how much is the average of schooling and graduation or who do not complete. That would be more secure and would not help to create false impressions at last. However, I would like to refer to another matter. Minister, the parameter, the narrative you have put forward to substantiate the minimum import base, you have introduced a parameter very critical, that of the pandemic. You told us that in September you will study the results, after the results achieved, that is, exactly what has been done and that you will make the necessary corrections. You didn't do a dialog when you voted for him in a previous bill. You ignored the positions of educational institutions, the educational community, we warned you. And you are coming now - sincerely, it has made me a scary impression - ignoring the special circumstances and all of this - and we have told you, if you do not want to change it, at least do not apply it somewhere this year, that this proposal should come more comprehensive - and you are talking with the cold and incorrect, ultimately, logic of numbers. It's not very peculiar to reason like that. You have tried, at the same time, not all of you who spoke on behalf of the government, to convince us that on your flags there is the phrase of evaluation and you are defending it. Of course, your resignation has no good relationships with the evaluation, because in the name of the evaluation many classes of educational civil servants were made available before 2015, when the evaluation you voted for, that 20% is under the basis, that they cannot pass, that they are outside this assessment. You are trying to do the same with Article 56, which actually introduces a punishing approach which is not relevant, and Mr Kastanidis once again said so, very thoroughly, and I do not need to refer to an integrated system of continuing training for teachers. If you do not introduce new scientific data, new educational perceptions, crisis management issues that are multiple and daily into the educational community itself, from femininities, from crimes, from a thousand other things to be discussed within the field of education, if not all of them incorporate them in a smooth, holistic and documentary way into the issues of teacher and teacher training, then what evaluation are we talking about? That is why we are calling for a roll-call vote on Rule 56. As far as the autonomy of the school unit is concerned, it is basically going to cover the unequivocal debt of the central state to support all educational units and introduce a new logic, new discrimination and somewhere it makes it clear that the school units should also start to think about their own self-financing and seek resources. The meaning of the autonomy of the school unit, however, is forgotten in Article 185, when you talk about the HEIs, where you are intervening with a decision by the Minister of Education unilaterally, in the same subject of knowledge. There is a bad anti-constitutional provision here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u96	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I should like to conclude, Mr President, that he has accepted a proposal for compulsory vaccination, and he has rejected it, and he has said that, in any case, there should be proof of vaccination or testing. The tests, who's gonna pay for them? Will the people pay the tests on their own? You must ensure in September a free test for both teachers and many other categories of workers, where there are many people. No more that thing! You've scattered money here and there. That's a priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u98	You've been in six minutes, Mr. Skourletis, please, there's also a tolerance, but please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, however, when we are discussing the bill with this content, at the same time in another room, amendments relating to issues relating to the content of this bill are being tabled, in the name of being late. Are we gonna play cryptoli, Minister? Are you hiding? I don't understand. Remove them if you are not prepared. All the issues of the amendments that have been tabled at the moment to another committee have been well-known for some time. If you're not prepared to withdraw them. You cannot escape that way. This surprise, this robbery war is not a good piece of legislation. I shall conclude by reminding you of a question I have asked the Minister and she has not answered me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u100	But finish, Mr Skourletis, because you have arrived in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u101	The last sentence, Mr President, and I am putting it to perfection. Perhaps the Minister has forgotten about it. You have not given me your opinion on the inadmissibility of the rescuer Jason Apostolopoulos, who was not honoured by the Presidency of the Republic. I would again like to see as Minister of Education in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u102	The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor. Mr Pafile, I will put to you the corresponding time of your dentistry and I would ask you to observe it. If I have to, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u103	Now I'm tempted. Mr. Skourletis, did you not say about stealing war? When did you bring the education bills? In the Great Week, Mr. Gabroglou, and in August if I'm not mistaken, second bill. Therefore, Critton slowed it down to say it in ancient Greek. Why all governments so far - all of them? Well, wouldn't there be an exception? - whatever laws they brought together for education, they brought them when schools and universities were closed, in the midst of a pandemic. The New Democracy took it off. In other words, when the community of education as a whole and parents and others were in operation at all levels of education. Why are you doing this? Is that a coincidence? Because nobody agrees with you and you come here and you work with us with the polls. If you ask anyone if he's happy with today's school, she'll tell you, no. You want to upgrade? He'll tell you, yes. It says 80%, so many of the JRC, so many of the SYRIZA, so many of the others. So, with well-established polls and questions you draw conclusions that the Greek people support you. You're out of sight. And you will be much longer when you collect the results, because the results, from the world, have not yet been collected than the so-called reforms you say you are doing. Good words, upgrade of school, strengthen of teachers! But what's behind all this? Let's see what it is. We will say it in general, because no one else is talking about it, and some are hiding behind their fingers. Others boldly support it, but they try to show it differently. There is a single strategy that you have been following for years from all the governments. It is now simply accelerating and taking off from New Democracy, but it is part of the general strategy that says adapting education and the need for the market and the economy. That is, the capitalist economy. What's the driving lever of the capitalist economy, isn't it the capital? To the needs of capital, which it requires today? Cheap, flexible workforce, fully subordinate to the needs of its profitability and at the same time wants a scientific potential, complementary, which can come mainly from medium-sized strata, given that the members of the bourgeois class who are at the top of the economy, mainly, come from foreign universities. And how do they come? With import capabilities and bases? Of course, with thousands of euros and hundreds of thousands that others cannot pay. Because it's not only what you pay to universities, it's where they live, what they eat, etc. This is the overall strategy that wants to achieve these things and that is how a system of education is formed and there are two policies here, there are neither three nor four. What is the aim of education? First of all, do you want him to take out the motorcycles? Just what the economy wants? What are you talking about? Shouldn't a child have a multifaceted knowledge? Shouldn't we have the knowledge of human culture? Shouldn't he have a critical spirit? Shouldn't he know the laws of social evolution? Shouldn't he know and think that he can change what's wrong today? No, you're saying. Replacement. We want skilled mechanics that will be acquired all the time depending on how the economy develops. And can I tell you something? Stop working the whole world that they'll all find jobs. Barbaric reality proves this itself in all capitalist countries and in the top ones where unemployment is literally in height. So you want people like that, and that unfolds all this strategy and there are also the ideological issues that are not to be underestimated. For example, in the summer of 2020, New Democracy abolishes social science and artistic education. What do you think? What are the kids? Animals? They don't want to know music? They hear it all. They don't want sport? Shouldn't they know social sciences? Of course you teach them ruined, but it doesn't matter. To deal with them as well and to open up their minds. And here there is a contradiction in capitalism itself, and I will give an example below. Second matter. Operation of skill workshops that are a persecuted knowledge, has no depth. You need to know the screw and not all where it comes from, what it does and how it evolved, so you can be quick and effective. What else? Unorthodox! You are now rejecting the anti-powered, but at the same time you are all promoting individual freedom, what is called rightfulness against social cohesion. What do you say in practice? And that's gonna show up for the next one. You say: “My right to press, my right to heroin, my right to draw cocaine. I define my body, what do you care?" I say the most extreme and there are, of course, other things, such as: it is my right to determine my gender against natural laws at eighteen. You'll all promote these together. They're coming. And then he says, "Since there's no objective truth and since I can do what I want, I don't do the vaccine." There's also some people who say they're gonna get horns or they're gonna destroy their DNA. It's a complete irrationalism against the evolution of science. This is what you teach in schools too, not to mention examples of where that logic leads. “There is no objective truth. There are many truths." What are you talking about? Are there many truths? What's that? Is it glass or because I see it differently can be an ancient vessel? There's objective truth, but you don't want it! Let's just say it now so I don't analyze it anymore. What are you doing, not just you, but the whole capitalist world? The children of workers will become workers with few exceptions that will strengthen the rule. The middle-grade kids will go to college or college. In college, what's the basis for importing, Mrs. Keramea? The pocket. Isn't that right? Whoever's gone! "With me and my lady." While others need to get rid of instruction all years if they can, so that they can pass. Because some people can, they have money and they can pay for the best. Thirdly, the elites will go to Harvard and MIT and to the most famous universities around the world, where a child worker must die there seven times at work. So this is the upgrade. We saw it in the introductory exams. And a question to Mr. Syragos, even though he's gone. Tell us what the Pappiga asked you. Did you ever do any research - all your ministries - on student class origin? Oh, no. Did you make an investigation now about who stayed out on the minimum import base to get results? Oh, no! Mr Syrigos' statistics are 'cooked' because they go to the whole. Can I tell you something? There is a man who enters a school and does not manage to continue for economic reasons, he has to go to work, he has to support his family for occasional reasons, - beaten up - his father or his mother died, and he has to support his brothers and stop there. It will go twenty-five or thirty years old and will get a degree and can be top. Why do you deprive him of that right? If you don't want to count that way, do an investigation and get some outside - not outside of the university - and see what the true power of the university is. And you're terrible, why instead of supporting the working students - where do you know from working students? - who melt up to get them through difficult schools, tell them 4+2 and ask them for signals if you know they're working on a black job. So hard and barbaric is politics as a whole in the capitalist world. It's not just a question of the New Democracy. So what did the upgrade you made? Increased the number of students in primary and preschool at twenty-five per department. Yes or no? Are you saying that upgrade when you're told it must be fifteen or not more than twenty? Here's the upgrade of what results it has. What else is upgrading to vocational training? Here's misery in her majesty! Enforcement of juvenile work and cheap apprenticeship from the 15 years, when even the UN has said no to child labour. You return to 1900 and compare to Africa. You're producing directly 15 years old. Why don't you make a single 12-year-old and compulsory school? Because you want to give cheap meat and I mean teenage bodies and souls to the service of capital. Mr Papadimitriou - who is not here and who is too bad because he knows letters and knows them well, but everyone makes his choice - told us that these have nothing to do with BSE nor with capital. What are you talking about? These are class above. And SYRIZA is tearing his clothes for the European Union that he's fine and that he's not here. What does the recovery plan say? A billion in funds for upgrading and modernising skills is a demand for BSE and capital across Europe, 471 million for co-financed research HEIs with private individuals - yet EUR 143 million for OAS apprenticeship programmes, 69 million for vocational education and training structures that prefer cooperation with businesses, 364 million for digital transformation to "weak" companies and schools are narrowed by underfunding! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Are you talking about upgrading? Aren't you embarrassed? 50% of schools since 1950. Yes or no, Mrs. Kerameau? The vast majority has not been controlled for earthquakes, there is no insurmountable control. Three out of four kindergartens do not have their own building and are housed in an international store rented and some on the first floor and therefore in a container. And we're talking about upgrading with such infrastructure? What are you talking about? Instead of taking the funds there to upgrade, you give them to where the capital chooses. To conclude, then, first theme: We are separating the school from the suffocation of the Ministry of Education. What's that mocking? How do we self-determination? Each one will be autonomous. First, second and third sortings shall be categorised. Also, a multitude of first, second and third - grade books depending on learning skills, as if children were born stupidly or from one point and then they have no brains, no thoughts, no social representations. We'll split them up, say another book Kifisia will do, another book will be made by St. Barbara, another one by Keracini. Don't tell us any exceptions, because the exceptions reinforce the rule. Is the single character of education being broken? Yes or no? Will all children learn the same thing? No, they won't know the same. What's the result? What I told you before, the good, the middle and the working class, because that's where the working class stays and there's no place left. Maybe none of the old people in Kifisia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Paphie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u105	Let me go, Mr. President. It's okay. Mr. Karathanasopoulos would also speak, but he has another bill. You've put all of us together now. With the multiple book they do the same. Another upgraded book, where there is a learning level and so on. The children of the people's families will follow the way of the family. That's what you want. So they're going to be workers beyond an exception. Tell us, Mrs. Kerameau - it's not a personal matter, to be clear, to be political - so, since we have three levels of schools, 1, 2, III, III, why would you put one single issue to everyone? Tell us about it. Who's gonna be helped with this? The good school or the last school? Single-text bank, single-text exams we'll have. It will be a cut, that is, a ruthless cut, a classic one, because normally the New Democracy should be the party of the cutter in relation to education and universities and elsewhere. For the preparation - he says - we have new methods: home preparation, home work, and at school we will have discussions and so. Tell us: A worker who leaves in the morning five o'clock and goes to Oinofytas and returns with the abortion - law of Hatzidakis on seven and eight o'clock at night and his wife is a commercial employee with a broken hour, how will this child help at home? How? There'll be a body, there won't be anything to do. So at mercy, they will be these children, while the bourgeois children will also get a teacher.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u106	Please conclude, because you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u107	Deal, okay. And here we want to make a reminder: stop the story of public free education. People laugh. Everywhere you pay: English, sports, culture whatever you want. Stop that. And here are two worlds. It's us and the rest of us. We say that education should be public, free of charge, and private education should be abolished, and then you say for parity. Who are you telling? Does the child of the industrialist, of this man, have the same conditions? Unless he becomes a tornado, Mrs. Papakosta, and takes 4,000 a month. How many tornados are coming to the Trikala? Five? Ten? Bring us addresses and names and we let them know to come here with 4,000 a month. Don't talk now. And if ten of them come, what's going to happen? Is the problem solved for all the torrents? We don't all tell colleges. We all say with general education and then choice by eighteen, not out of fifteen, not since they were born, because now you've brought it back since they were born.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u109	I shall conclude, Mr President. For international practice in countries - Finland, the European Union - told you by Yiannis Giokas a bit. We have more. Read no "RIZOPASTI" to get you out, as they say in my village. It's research. They're not ours. See in Germany, Britain, France, the flagships of capitalism in Europe, the rate of high levels of children based on family origin: Germany close to 20% of the children of the rich families, 5.5% of the middle age, 2.5% of the working class. France's even higher. Over 20% of children in higher socio-economic order, they say, are below 10% the middle and in Britain even worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u110	Put it in the Minutes, Mr. Palphie, better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u111	These are the models that you are propaganda Europeans and that it is because of Mitsotakis and his government alone. Not that it is not the fault, but it applies the same policy everywhere. As far as Finland is concerned, I do not read the Finnish Embassy report. I'll testify for her to exist. I will only read that the Finnish Education Assessment Centre in a report presented in 2020 shows an increase in the differentiation of the knowledge and competence of pupils, which it links to the educational background of the family. Two and a half thousand schools are closed. Mr. Giokas will say so I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u113	I'm done. Just my phrase. They're tough class laws. Whatever the rest of you say is the laws of the capitalist economy that want them in education. That's what you deny and say there's good capitalism, Biden. We heard Biden now. If you go to America, you'll freak out. You're going to Harlem, you're going to working folk neighborhoods, and you're going to Long Island somewhere else to see what you're planning for the future. It won't cross you, and we'll be in the front line. We want personalities and people thinking. You want robots on the subject of the bosses. That's why the world has to change and it's gonna change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Mr Ploris has the floor and I would ask for your understanding, Mr Plouris, because the parliamentary representatives have fallen together while we have said that they will be going alternately and immediately thereafter Mr Giannis Burnos will be speaking by SYRIZA. In any case, you have the floor, Mr Ploir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. It's nice to hear SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece, because in the Communist Party of Greece with total disagreement you understand that there is an ideological controversy and you hear things you disagree with but they are understandable, and you go into a controversy to answer. With SYRIZA, on the contrary, something is going to say from what the Communist Party of Greece says, but on the other hand, because they have done all the opposite, they are expressing a reason why we cannot understand it. And we heard it here and yesterday from the Chief of Officerial Response who also attacked private schools, without knowing who goes to private schools. If there is no public free education somewhere, you should know it is to those who take their children to private schools, because while paying for all the taxes they represent, they are the only ones who do not make use of the public free education they pay for. And they have no provision from public free education. So there should be a respect for these people that you may be ashamed of, but many of you, your children, are sending them to private schools. Go out and say it here. He said the Chief of Staff Response if it's from college, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Education. He'll tell us he doesn't want what the Communist Party of Greece says about private education. Can he say that and can he tell those of you who are sending your children to private schools? So let's see now about education, because there's been a lot of talk. Our Constitution has solved it. Education either likes or does not like some, under Article 16(2) aims at the moral, spiritual, professional, physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their formation to free and responsible citizens. That's what Article 16(2) of the Constitution says. And you have a personal streak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u116	He's talking about mobsters? What about chlamys?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u117	That's what the Constitution says. We say what the Constitution says. You say other things, Mr Giannoulis, which you sometimes understand, you never understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u118	Don't interrupt, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u119	So let's go now. The Minister has become the target of personal attacks by SYRIZA because she has bothered you more than anyone. Do you know why he's bothered you? Because in an area that you thought is your privilege, occupation and enforcement culture, because that was your logic, both in universities and in schools, it comes in and makes areas that are disturbing. You were disturbed by the Mitsotakis Government with the Minister of Education, Mrs. Keramos, that she abolished what you said asylum and had nothing to do with asylum, which was the disaster. It bothered you that it upgraded to the Greek universities, so that students would not get in and the bollocks would break them down, that there is a body that controls the illegal acts and now disturbs you the bill that comes in for education, for schools that are a follow-up that has to do and for the introduction to higher education institutions. Do you know what's bothering you the most? The acceptance that exists. I am not going to mention the 90% of the Greek people who want the changes or 70% who want the minimum import base. I shall refer to the 55% of your voters, which you cannot convince them themselves - 55% - are in agreement with the changes we are making, because those who are parents and have children, we want our children to go to a good school. It is a key message to be said, because I have again heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who referred to teachers for the tests, but I have not heard them say that they should be vaccinated. Teachers are the ones who need to be vaccinated because they will have our children who cannot be vaccinated by age. The teacher's conscience should therefore have been much stronger on the part of vaccination. Instead of giving this message, you're coming to say what's going to happen to diagnostics. Tell them first "go to be vaccinated" because you have our children, whose children at the age of 12 will not be vaccinated and then see other issues that we have. What about this bill? With this draft law, we first of all have a decentralised direction with confidence in teachers and transfer of competences, we have an assessment of them not with a punishing character. Our rapporteur, Mr Giorgos Kotsos, has explained them very well to you one by one. We currently have the evaluation, not as a punishment, but obviously there must be an assessment, so that the educational potential of the country can be continuously upgraded, which are the ones to implement the objectives of your education. ‘We have reinforcement of all structures. What schools are our children going to go to September? They will go with eleven thousand seventeen hundred young appointed permanents in basic education. If you add all four and a half thousand of the special treatment, it's over sixteen thousand people with a hundred and twenty - three new programs. Beware: It is a ministry that managed for a year something that would be unprecedented in any discussion we have had, that for a very long time there had to be the teleworking that worked. He managed to have the best possible foundations in these circumstances, so that children can continue to have their schedule. This whole frame is an entire backbone, starting at kindergarten, which will begin earlier. The studies show that, in those countries that have early kindergartens, their children have a much better approach to understanding texts than the examinations, which we will see tomorrow in the Committee on Education. At the same time, as far as the multiple book that has been charged is concerned, on the one hand, and you say for critical thought, and on the other hand, you say that there is no possibility of multiple sources and choices, which just removes you from memorization and leads you to critical thinking. So this school will go to our children in September. This is a structured work, which is also done with this bill, so that, as the Minister herself said, in 2033, we can see the whole course of these important changes that are being made today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Obviously, it is enough - I conclude, Mr President - for your political reason in what you have done with the memorials and you have fooled the world, because it is the story now with the make news, which says that we are, unfortunately, very easily accessible to the Greeks in believing that we are making a make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u120	You're the ones who're paying for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u121	This also justifies Alexis Tsipras' presence in the political life of the place. He justifies his presence in the political life of the place, because when he's a prosperous man in the make news, he can hear Mr. Tsipras' promises. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Is it possible for your policy that when you come to power, will the computers who now have run tests to enter their school of choice? You say all this unresectedly and you come to intervene in an institution that the Greek people fully respects as incompetent, the institution of the pan-Hellenic exams, only to vote on these people. And that's a disgrace to you! We support and vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Burnus from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Plory, if you're interested in the vaccinations, collect the Macedonians with whom you were humiliating at the Constitution and now they've been uninvasive. You have brought another bill to extend and consolidate the right-wing counter-reforming to education, which has been your earnest desire for decades - already by the government of Constantine Mitsotakis - because your aim is strategic and your opponent is all the reforms and steps that have been taken by a series of progressive governments, perhaps even since the free school was introduced at universities. You want to minimize the social footprint of public university education. You have targeted it as a pillar of social mobility, social and economic modernisation, as well as political questioning. Fewer students, therefore, to close schools and departments and more clients for your college friends, because you don't do anything without a transaction with interests. Legislation with cynicism and courage. Only at the University of the Aegean, we calculate a reduction in admissions to 86% of the departments. At regional level it is the second largest reduction in the country. Universities like the University of the Aegean are a key lever for regional development, which leaves you indifferent. Mr Mitsotakis thinks he is inadequate for students to attend schools until last year, but this year they cannot. With provocative ignorance of what the introductory exams are, but also how the universities work you think it is your job to assess the suitability of students and to support it with caffeine arguments and overconservative ideas, as if the universities had no their own evaluation procedures for who they deserve to graduate, much more objective and more serious procedures than a few hours' exams at the age of seventeen and eighteen. Do you know the universities have exams every six months? What exactly do you think they're doing there? What's bothering you if a lot of students go into college? Do they get room? Are they consuming benefits or allowances, such as in other developed countries? Who are you, who will decide in advance who must try to study and who not, especially when there are hundreds of sections with quite different requirements, that fit thousands of students and stay empty? In fact, they are parts with low scores, which, however, provide applied technical training for which you are supposed to be cutting. You've been making the biggest reduction in the history of Greek education, because you've been lagging away with inappropriate, obsolete, miserable ideas that have been circulating on the right hand literature for decades of years by people who have simply been stumbled by the massification of education. Finally, you put an arbitrary cutter even for excellence. Follow your constant tactics to shake the finger on the young, as you introduced the recording of the conduct in the dismissals, as you blame them for the pandemic, as you cut their incomes with the worker. Only for your own children and the Golden Boys will there be a pretext. The rest will go to a downgraded private education, low-qualified work and migration. You openly admit that you want fewer students. What country does this when the European Union's objective is at least 45% of the population to be graduated? You refer to the results of the PISA on student performance. But you are sick of taking a look, comparing school performance and percentage of tertiary education graduates. You would see that countries which are high on the PISA list are both countries with the highest number of graduates, with up to 45% of the total population being graduates of higher education. Greece is only at 31%. That's why we're saying you're ideological, anachronists, and you're attacking ignorant graphics arguments that hate all public. It's funny to talk about the Second Industrial Revolution, and you think we'll achieve the digital transition by reducing university graduates. From the same source of backward ideas come the arrangements of your bill. You want to establish an administration framework that takes us decades back, certainly before the 1980s and progressive reforms, which established collective management procedures for school administration and created democratic morality. You can remove from responsibilities the teachers' association. You're wasting the school boards while you're talking about the autonomy of school units. You are building a vertically integrated public service with authoritarian control by a single representative body of the director and training executives who will be party. That is why you are abolishing the regional educational planning centres, because you were simply annoyed by the non-one-personal bodies, which could act as a community for the composition of knowledge and fields to support the school. You're turning us back to the times of the inspectors and doing the training commander. You multiply executives and advisors, but without merit and objectivity. You set up selection councils without elected representatives of workers, just with the Minister's choices. This is a normal counter-reformation, which puts your party hierarchy on hating schools and promotes managers with superpowers for unobstructed customer transactions. Without any provision for training structures, the training of the teacher as a result of a punishing assessment becomes a stigmatization. It's probably remodeling. Evaluation needs a culture of collective self-assurance and control, it needs to be an experience of the educational community and not an enforcement by the people appointed by the minister. Without investment in education, without broadening higher education, you will continue a policy of class and elitist with the doctrine of quality for a few and the many in undergraduate schools and undergraduate professions. In the informal memorandum, which you systematically and zealously implement in the work of the troika, which you undertook to continue on your own, we know that all anachronisms will revival, which we thought we had left behind and you will strive to build a society that everyone will know its place, provided it is beneath you. Unfortunately for you, not for much longer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u124	Mr Burnus, thank you for the time. We continue with Mr Voloudakis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the word'reform' in recent years in our country may be used more often than it should be. In this bill, however, we have fundamental reform with all the meaning of the word. I say that it is essential, because education is not just the management of current situations, but it is about the future of our country. Many of the present pathogenesities of our society, our homeland, have their roots in distorting legislation of the 1980s. So today we come to correct many of these distortions in a way that I believe will enable the Greeks to go to a better school in a school that will enable them to make maximum use of their staff and make them better tomorrow's citizens. As far as this bill is concerned, I would like to say that, in my opinion, there are three headings. Firstly, the evaluation of teachers and teachers in education, secondly, the creation of conditions for the autonomy of school units, and thirdly, some changes - reforms in church education. These are for me the three headlines. So I come to what I think is needed as soon as possible because it is the most obvious one, namely evaluation. What happens everywhere in society, everywhere in life, cannot happen in schools. We're all appraised everywhere. They cannot be the ones to whom we assign the discipline of our children not to be evaluated. You know, evaluation is a term, broad acceptance, but always in its application, "yes, but..." begins. The most classic 'yes, but...' I remember is that yes, to have an assessment, but not to be punishable. Indeed, the assessment, as described in this bill, is not punishable. Nor will anyone lose their job, nor will they reduce their wages or anything like that. But those who say that actually have something else in mind. They do not have an assessment in their minds, but a process which will simply pay back in a situation in which no one stands out and nothing, because everything will be a uniform mass, resulting from a public function as a factory. In fact, this is the model of the 1980s. Then he probably found his ideological expression in the legislation and we still have it. In 'yes, but...' there are various legislative arrangements, which, in my opinion, constitute a mockery of the past, because it cannot be self-assessed either by the teacher or by the institutions of the evaluation to be present, so that there is a 'vote me, to assess you positively'. These came to the university and in the 1980s, that's what we're paying today. Don't put them in the schools, in their evaluation, so that she's real and clean. Needless to say, as the Minister pointed out, that only in three other countries in Europe - I repeat in Europe as a geographical unit, not in the European Union - have no evaluation. I come to the autonomy you enter for the school unit. Today we have a centralised model where the Ministry takes the vast majority of decisions. 80% of the decisions in Greece belong to the Ministry, compared with 35% of the OECD average, to see what happens in the rest of the world. This means that we have an industrial uniformity education. This may have been justified as an emergency solution in the first years of establishment of public education. I repeat: as an emergency. But today, where there are potential for monitoring and diffusing information, which technology allows us, it is incomprehensible to insist on such models of mass production, the industry of 'formism', I would say, uniformly in every structure. Because, you know, when it comes to people, there cannot be the logic of 'a size for everyone', especially when it comes to children. What do we mean by autonomy? That school units, the director, teachers, can choose some books from digital and other libraries, have the ability to evaluate students in different ways, be able to create groups, be able to cooperate with institutions, so that the school can become a living unit in society, which will create integrated personalities and not machines, that will save texts. Minister, I would like here to highlight a point in Article 99, which you are right to bring and says that the school manager will also be able to obtain donations for school. That's very right. But here, Minister, we must be careful, because there are schools in which there will be no such possibility, and in some other areas this will be much larger. I will not go into SYRIZA's logic, which says to level it all up, but, for example, it could be predicted that a percentage, a 5% -10% of the sums that each school attracts as donations, would go, for example, for unprocessed or other schools in problem areas, etc. Now we're going to church education. Here I have to say that I have an objection. Church education is well upgraded so that candidate clergymen can attend upgraded schools and raise the level of clergy education. That's right. But, in my view, provision should be made for teachers who teach at these schools, at least in religious and philological lessons, to be Christian Orthodox. I know that there is welfare and that you are dealing with the posting process of teachers, but I think there should be an explicit reference. It cannot, in a school that trains clergymen to ask to teach as a theologian, for example, a man of another religion. I see no violation of a constitutional right here, because it is self-evident. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please allow me to continue for another minute. It goes without saying, then, that it cannot be another doctrine that teaches religiously, for example, to clergymen. Why would he want to exercise such a right? The debate on this bill was really shattered by the opposition krone on the issue of the minimum import base. It is the spirit and attitude that has come from us since the 1980s, which I said before. Personally, in these two years at least of the term of office of this Parliament, I have seen no greater political misery than the attempt by the Officer of Anti-Population to vote on the bitterness of the children who may have failed the tests. Always some children fail in the examinations, there is always another opportunity, always a system can be corrected and improved, but it cannot be opposition tactical, political slogan "all at university". The university must have some criteria. The logic of having schools based on the introduction of '3' and getting people out of there who will not know what to do next is primarily unfair to those who are economically weak, because they end up in these schools. It is not, therefore, the way you are presenting it, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. In fact, justice means that it is public education at that level, which allows anyone students at these schools to have a degree, which means something either in professional or academic space. Stop cutting off for the equation down. This is not the way forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Voloudakis, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u127	I'm sorry. Ten seconds, Mr President. Having studied from 1985 to 1989 at the University of Athens and considering - first God - that my children should study at the Greek university, I would like this university to be better and in the way we have taken it will be. Thank you very much and apologise for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u128	Mrs Papakostas - Palioura from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that once again I had planned to say, but it is really a great challenge to precede colleagues who argue, in my view, with extreme arguments and that they remain unanswered. I would just like to begin by saying that education reform is probably the most per capita, the most user-friendly expression on every party and pre-election agenda. Why is that? Have we wondered about that? Is it because education is the main pillar in the development and progress of a society and a country as a whole or because in our country everything changes and in the end is left the same? I would like to begin with the position of Mr Varoufakis, who has succeeded with extremes against our Minister, but also with our parliamentary group colleagues. He even said that "it is a pity that we have Mrs Keramea's Minister for Education". I would therefore like to say the following from this step: It is a pity, Mr Varoufakis, that we had you as Finance Minister and during your term of office you have charged our country with governance SYRIZA in the first six months to 100 billion. That's a shame. While you were talking about looking at your curriculum and I saw that you studied at the University of Essex and Birmingham in England and at a private school, the School of Moraite, in Greece, when of the hundred and fifty-eight New Democracy MPs we studied in public universities. So we do not allow you to come here and move our hand, as if you know public education more than we do. Because you have told us neither too much nor too much and undemocratic and that we are handling undemocratic and state-of-the-art methods at the Ministry of Education, look at your parliamentary group and your MP who resigned a few days ago, accusing you of undemocratic and authoritarian behaviours. This is about Mera25. With regard to the JRC, Mrs Papagasa, Mr Pafile, who is not here, and the colleagues of the broader Left in general, I should like to say the following: Mrs Papayannakis said that the statement by our Prime Minister yesterday that public education should finally be linked to the labour market is a profound cynicism. I would therefore like to give an answer from this Step too. Trying to link public education and education in general to the labour market is not cynical, it is realism, ladies and gentlemen. It's realism and it's demanding years of society itself, which is obviously impossible to understand, because you've been entrenched for decades now within your ideas, the only thing you care about is enclosing your party audience in sterile expressions and outdated vocabulary. We are tired of young children until today of hearing about a class state, capitalism, a hostile state, employers - beasts and workers who are always the victims of whom you call themselves defenders and we are their avengers. She said that even if we were to abolish the pan-Hellenic exams, the public education, the public school would still remain deeply classic. I would like an argument at some point on this part, in order to understand it, because in my ears this sounds like a huge contradiction, as a huge hypocrisy. Deeply classic public school, which, when we set up with experimental and standard schools, which we doubled this year, the JRC and the wider Left were against? Why? Why did we try and try to create upgraded public education and give our children options? Is the public experimental and standard school class classic, which can give as I said upgraded education through tools, methods and quality of teachers that unfortunately do not exist today in general public education? You said there should be studies, some research. Mr. Giannoulis said so. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll catch up. Don't worry. I'll limit my word. The problem is when there is text, when I speak from a coordinate text. After all, the President will show a tolerance because all my colleagues had a tolerance in their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u130	But why? There's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u131	You said that research must be carried out at some point - and colleagues from SYRIZA and the KKE have said so - to see these students, the graduates eventually come from what social strata. But be careful, for if we ever do this investigation you may be irreparablely exposed. I said it, Mr. Philly, and you in the previous bill, that you are against private education, but the president sends his children to a private school. Mrs Papariga - for them to be heard at some point too - is against public education, but she sent her daughter to a private school, and we, who are right-wing children, send our children to a public school, to public universities. If this isn't a deep hypocrisy, if this isn't deeply false, and as I said, in my previous speech a blow of indifferent populism on the back of society itself, then what is it? Mr. Friendly disgusting. No, Mr. Philly, we're not terrible. It's you who's learned to laugh at your ears for years. Our Prime Minister yesterday had the political courage to say that while we know that the minimum import base causes us political costs, we will take it. Why? Because some time in this country we must make difficult decisions in order at last to deceive her from the ideas and because that country has powers behind her that want to move forward and make her go forward and not hold her back decades. Because you might think it's all for everyone, all at universities. The former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said that education itself is self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u132	Isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u133	Yes, of course it is. But not everyone is the same and not everyone is trying the same. Because there are children who "blow" to enter the university and deserve the best, and there are children who have taught them to have only rights, have no obligation and consider it all and that it is a state's obligation. To you, my colleague, who is making this gesture to me, I return it to you and be much more careful when you address a Member in general. Because we're not all the same, and we haven't known each other since yesterday. I would ask you, therefore, to be very careful, because the world, the society, has awakened sometimes what we say'some people spit out, but they think it rains', to keep in mind that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u134	Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u135	I shall close, Mr President, as soon as possible. We are determined to reform the public sector, for that is why the Greek people have voted for us, and that is why we have been doing, since the first day of our election, because, as Plutarchos said, what we are interested in is to light fires in our children's minds and not just to call them the receptacles of knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be more time-conscious. Now Mrs. Perka has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, after the speech we have just heard, I can only make a few comments. First of all, the example of who sends his children to private schools when the corresponding public will have to give you a thought. As for the 100 billion. I don't know. I don't know. Say 200 or 300. It's not counting anywhere, you're flying numbers. We're understanding. People who haven't adapted well to society, don't know how it's biomassing, how it's having fun, how it works, how it's in love with the biggest part of our people, they're unhappy. These are the people who think we're not all equals. Either way, it's a form of disability. ‘As much as you try to hide this, it becomes verbal failures and it appears. "The plumber from Peristeri", "equality is utopia", "let it go to IEK", they are said, and if we didn't have written speeches we would hear more pearls. Because this government does not have 'excellent', but has 'principles' and 'principles'. That explains how they think and how they legislate. Apparently, some of you haven't gone to public school, for a public university or a reason. Princes don't give grandchildren. They have to answer only one question: "What do you want to be, my child, when you grow up?" They respond: 'Minister of State, Minister, Income' and others. We had known such genes from African countries at the Polytechnic University. The other electrical engineer was studying because he had to go to the Ministry of Energy. Why am I saying all this? First and foremost, to understand how a Minister, who knows what is going on in Europe, for example what the trends are, is doing to introduce such anachronistic provisions. Because the bill that we are discussing nor education upgrades or strengthens the work of teachers. What's he doing? Controlling, supervising with the anachronistic look of the auditor, giving the managers superpowers and bringing us to the school of the 20th century. No relationship to what modern societies have achieved as a school of full-scale development, discovery, collaborativeity, pedophile approach. Unfortunately, the aim of the government, which is to suppress all different voices and perceptions in the institutions of education, is met by means of provisions that strengthen the punishing assessment, and does not, of course, promote any policy of progress in the creation of a modern school. Anything that restricts free critical thinking is eligible, since cynically it has been said that it prevents a number of dangers. Indeed, it is dangerous that citizens can see populism and propaganda from the serious political proposal, it is dangerous for you. So we abolish both social sciences and artistic ones. History and philosophical courses have now escaped. We want to inform you, Minister, that education in ancient Greek meant what culture is about today, that is, more general spiritual and mental culture and culture. You dress up for Conservation, Religion, Nationalism and the "father, religion, family" you turn to the worst moments of the previous century. There is an explanation for all this: you do not understand and you do not love either the country or the people. You tell us, in short, that we are not all equals, there are Louises and their court officers, there is the people on the other side. This anti-democratic balance disturbs a situation in time, where it happened? A child from a poor family could try and become a doctor, an engineer, however unequal and accurate this effort. However, some children still made it on the basis of '10'. But come on, the kids who paid for college didn't have equal degrees. It was also solved by the Minister, with a night-old amendment, that colleges with the Greek universities were made equal, no discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the question is not answered, how can students who are cut off by the HEIs be able to attend colleges and do what they want, there is no need for such a debate. No one answered it. You all get a lot, and the Prime Minister himself. But this question has not been answered, it remains in the Chamber. Your draft law therefore depends on and recalls the thirteenth draft of the evaluation of teachers and the autonomy of school units, a policy which then led to the growth of educational and social inequalities, of course, at the expense of the pupils of the lower economic sections. It is now obvious that your plan is a reactive part, which is about the functioning, content of public education, it is against the educational situation and it is trying to unfairly and inhibit any progressive development of society by forming a school of authoritarian, party, class. We, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to fight for a progressive school of inclusion that promotes cooperation and strengthens pluralism. Of course, we also demand money from the Fair Recovery Fund for the reform of the detailed programmes to refer to the Information Society of the 20th century, with laboratory equipment, the promotion of research and innovation. Our vision of public education marks and refers to progress, aims at strengthening the aptitude system of education, an examination system with free access to a significant number of departments, restoring research to the Ministry of Education, strengthening the high school and holistic education post-examination system, which eliminates student minds and leads to disappointment, and, of course, to the strengthening of the PES, the apprenticeship, the two-year programme at the PI and the use of comparative benefits in the region, synergies of the local society with the relevant universities. Ladies and gentlemen, Florina and Western Macedonia have been seeing the academia of the map being dismantled for two years and living in the period of liberation. How difficult is it to support the flame of culture, the film tradition of Thedoros Angelopoulos and cancel the establishment of the Department of Film of the School of Fine Arts? How do you strengthen the university, the Florina Agronomic School of peppers, beans and wine, not setting up this department? We have liberation, and here it is supposed that any recovery is the result of academic research and synergy. Of course, how will you strengthen the technical and professional training of young people in the region by abolishing the two-year programmes for the specialisation of the PSAs in silver goldsmiths, viticulture, oenology in Florinna wine? You are wrong in an area that embraces science, arts and culture warmly and insists that you have unwritten and isolated. Florina has an eighty-year pedagogical Academy and the University of Western Macedonia is a station of knowledge dissemination in the Western Balkans and the means of recovering and developing innovation in the context of the post-living era. You constantly underestimate it, but that's what we had to wait for a government, when scientists give the "scientific" programs, it abolishes the programs for young scientists, it reads as it wants the charts, it abolishes control mechanisms, it lulls universities, it draws on the private training owners, it appoints administrations without a degree, it abolishes as prerequisite the degree for the recruitment of consultants and, of course, academic members of the government without as a matter of fact recommending non-scientific provisions to almost all bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u138	Please, my colleague, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u139	But this devaluation of language and academic qualifications is entirely linked to a disabled democracy, which is being established rapidly on the occasion of the pandemic. Mrs. Kerame, this is your anachronism and darkness. The Greek people will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much. We will now continue with Mr. Papatos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, without any sign of exaggeration or inaccuracy, we can say that today's draft law on the upgrading of school and the strengthening of teachers is a flagship bill. It is emblematic, because it introduces provisions and regulations which focus on the real needs of education, but also on the hopes of the officials who serve it. It is also emblematic, because it is being discussed in such a context, where memories, experiences and results that the depreciation of the school by the government majority of SYRIZA - ANEL have inherited us. If, therefore, we wanted to outline the directions in which this draft law moves, they relate to the quality, evaluation and effectiveness of the good called 'education'. Quality in education means students who make use of school time more effective and above all, in a useful way, that learning as a process and as a result exploits all those tools that place the student at the heart of the educational process. Quality also means a teacher who develops skills and transmits the particular capital he holds as a teacher and mentor on the basis of the skills and opportunities that the public school must allow him to develop. A characteristic case of this request for quality is Article 6 of the draft law. This is where the position of the regional quality supervisor of education is to be established. Among its responsibilities, it is both concerned with the implementation of primary and secondary education policy and the organisation of regional programmes. Evaluation, then, means finding out their weaknesses and improving them for the benefit of the student, the teacher and the educational system, an improvement that does not aim to punish, but an opportunity for the staff of our education to become better and for the students to gain a multiple benefit from this improvement. Evaluation means a reward for the ability, innovation and the one taking initiatives in the context of the overall education process. Here is the reference to Article 56 of the draft law. In more detail, the evaluation of training staff and other teachers, of the members of special educational staff and of special assistant staff is a central option, a choice which, as a condition of continuous improvement and systematic control of the staff, is responsible for the quality of public education. However, Article 104 provides for a new method of evaluation of the educational system by carrying out national diagnostic examinations every school year. The two dimensions I mentioned, namely quality and evaluation, lead to the legal aspect of the third as important as that of efficiency, efficiency, which both the improvement of quality indicators and the evaluation process can accelerate. But here is the argument that both sides want to contribute to the promotion of this demand for the effectiveness of the educational community, which is working in this direction and the state, which provides the institutional margins of independence, which will free the forces, the proposals and the will of public education to function more effectively. One final point of the draft law, which I would like to highlight, concerns the possibility of selecting a teaching book. In particular, Article 85 provides that this possibility shall be established in all courses taught in public or private primary and secondary schools. The selection of teaching books, used by the school unit, is made by teachers who teach the corresponding courses and is carried out among the teaching books, which have been entered into the register of teaching books. At the same time, teachers may use, in parallel to the teaching book, selected and distributed in their school unit, the total of the teaching books of the corresponding course in digital format and digital objects, which are posted and available in the Digital Library of Teaching Books. The choice, ladies and gentlemen, of a teaching book is a brave step forward in the need for school autonomy and freedom of choice in public education. Without rejecting the leadership of the organised state in developing education policy, it is important that educational units acquire the right and opportunity to develop individual strategies relating to the specificities of local communities and the possibilities of school units. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my introduction with a request concerning our local society and the Ionian Islands as a whole. The amendment with a general number of 1007 and a special number 72 provides for the provision of housing allowances to undergraduate students from the University of Thrace, Aegean and Western Macedonia. As you already know, by common letter, the Members of the New Democracy in Kefalonia, Ithaca, Corfu, Lefkada and Zakynthos are asking you to join the Ionian University in this strategy. I put this letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagis Kapatos, presents for the Minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As an institution of a multi-seasonal nature, at the western end of the country, it introduces complexity into its own operation, as well as the process of installing students. For the same matter the Rector of the Ionian University has sent you and sent us a corresponding request. I put the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagis Kapatos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does Mr. Rector actually say? It confirms our argument on multi-seasonality, while introducing the request for equal treatment of students from both island establishments in the country. Here I would like to add the following: for the Aegean and Thrace universities, we understand that this is a national issue and there is no objection. For any other university, however, whatever reasons it may be for these universities, the same reasons apply to a university in the western part of Greece, which is an island. I would like to say here that the criteria given, which are economic, to the other universities... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I will need it if I may. As far as the economic criterion is concerned, I am not particularly in agreement. There could be other criteria to strengthen these universities, such as their support with the establishment of new departments and with the best functioning of these universities. The economic criterion goes to the point, if you like, of unfair competition with other universities. Ladies and gentlemen, six months ago precisely, we voted in this Chamber to extend the hayalitis zone to the Ionian Sea to twelve nautical miles. The Ionian position as the key to our geoeconomic and geopolitical strategy emerged in this debate. We have also mentioned the history of the vote on the first extension of our national space since 1947. With our joint request, by my fellow Members, to join the Ionian Islands, and the Ionian University confirms this fact, that the presence of the Ionian University in our national strategy for education and development is not only justified, but imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera 25 has requested the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. A few minutes ago, Mr President, Mrs Papakostas - Paliura reiterated the well-known slander, that Mr Varoufakis was allegedly able to cost the Greek State EUR 100 billion just six months. I respond to her on a firm basis: anyone who wants the truth and who wants the truth is compiled with us, a committee of inquiry for all the memoranda now or else remain silent forever. I would add that Mr. Varoufakis, our Chief, is clean and crystal clear, so he dares to ask for a committee of inquiry for himself. On the other hand, the government is not at all pure and crystalline. She's scared, and that's why she sucks, and she doesn't dare. Don't you dare? Here we go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u145	The extremely misleading title of the draft law on the upgrading of education, which the Ministry of Education has brought forward on the eve of the summer holidays of the Parliament, another argument for this title has to do with the placement of the New Democracy MP, who just came down from the Step, who, while he said about the good things that the bill and the "reformation" of the Ministry of Education to be discussed in the House, also calls for his own contribution to his constituency. Why? Since the Ministry of Education's bill does everything well, we obviously need to upgrade our region a little, because there may be problems, which this Ministry creates, as well as the New Democracy MP, who came here and spoke out of breasts, through her heart, said her steps, attacked the entire Left, a little, said about populism, about everything that is being discussed in the media, which obviously creates a Mouse press release and how good Mrs Keramea is and what a terrible job she does in the Ministry of Education. He also attacked the whole side of the House without saying anything about what is happening with this bill. The excellent work, carried out by Mrs Keramos, is very much reflected in the signatures, which are gathered throughout the country, throughout the country, where clear reference is made to the problem of her bill and its bills, what she has brought to education, where students are also involved, who are unfortunately affected and affected by their subsequent lives from here on account of this bill. But we cannot make an excellent report, because you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, well take the text from the offices of the New Democracy and come and say the same thing. Of course, everyone on the basis of their own constituency, because you are putting your constituency to the end, but if someone reads the minutes of the House, they will see that you are saying the same thing. But Mr Mitsotakis, yesterday, brought you, did not treat you well, particularly Mrs Kerameos, but also to you Members. For while you say what an excellent bill this is, Mr. Mitsotakis said: "I understand the problem of the things that the bill brings, I understand that, but I take political responsibility." Things are getting into a very serious conversation here. Mr. Mitsotakis, what responsibility does he take personally? Mr Mitsotakis assumes responsibility for twenty thousand young people in the country not to make their dreams, as if he had the right of this man, even if he was elected Members of the majority, to take such a responsibility. Very nice. In other words, if these twenty thousand children are affected by this bill, which you will vote on today, we will have Mr Mitsotakis, who will not be elected Prime Minister but will have the responsibility. What responsibility? None. He'll continue his baths, his baths. Your entire report is a lie. From what the Minister brings here and presents it to the House, until what your Members say. You say the students in our country fail to leave their studies. Mr. Stournaras, the one you put at the wheel of the Bank of Greece, undoes your words. You bring evidence from the 1980s. I imagine those who are in plenary right now, from what I understand from your age - at least in the 1980s, I was too young - had you not been in the process of study. So it's not about you either. It's false evidence. Will you really come to take responsibility for the life of twenty-thousand young children with elements of the 1980s? Do you really think that this option of sending young people into the hug of private colleges is something that is excellent for public debate and public education? In other words, because the majority of some of your friends have the possibility of doing this, of sending their children to a private person - and well they do, I do not claim to have less money, is that not - really, do you legislate and say: Do not worry, you twenty thousand children, which you have excelled in the pan-Hellenic exams, will we send you to the public IEK." Do you know why? For your statement that you have been cutting off children who have passed to the Greek universities, with '5', '6' or '7', with a low degree, this argument is rescinded by the report by Prime Minister Mitsotakis, for which you here from this Step you say what dreadful he is, who yesterday, Mr. Keramos, if I understood correctly, said: Yes, I too accept letters from children of excellence, which are cut off by the pan-Hellenic exams, precisely because of the introduction of the minimum base, I understand that, but I take this cost. Really? You guys are so galantic? Are you so awesome, you take responsibility for twenty-thousand children? I, therefore, am part of the group of people who have fought great battles for public and public education, high school, and high school, and public universities, I tell you this: You may attack the new generation, but you know that it is this new generation in which we hope that the place will never see people like you running and having the responsibility of the country. In fact, we want these young people, whom you are swindling with your policies, we want these young people to be the lever for our country to create those prospects of democracy in those institutions and you to put you where you deserve, in the time of history, at the end of the political system. Because you're not interested in young people, you only care about your friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u146	We are now continuing with Mrs Brysidou Friday from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, public education is the foundation of a healthy and balanced society and the basis for each country's progress and development and each government has a responsibility to deal with the individual issues of education and to provide solutions, after dealing with detail and seriousness. The major problems which concern our country, education and, more generally, education are specific and we must accept them and admit them if we want to solve them and we must resolve them because we owe them to the new generation. Because the problems of the new generation are much more serious than our political issues and our political disagreements and differences. The big problem is the unemployment of young scientists, who invest in their education, invest in time, in money, in their families and by taking the degree, cannot find jobs or need to deal with something other than what they have studied or left abroad. We must therefore take action. What is better, leaving things as they have thousands of scientists leaving abroad? We need to design and provide solutions and solutions are to train scientists in new skills in such a way, based on the new data, so that they are useful to some professions that they need in our country and do not have these skills. So we need a further organisation. On the other hand, in the field of education, we have thousands of teachers who have not been appointed. Their families and they fight. A major problem that cannot be solved easily, because the teacher and the teacher have been trained, they are a teacher, they are a scientist, they cannot easily do another profession. We have planned the recruitment of eleven thousand seven hundred young teachers and that is the great plus, it is what has to be heard from an end to Greece, not from what the Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Education has done, but from the voices of all these people who will support public education, but they too will be able to do their dreams, become teachers, function, act and live their families. This decision together with the four thousand eight hundred of special education, who have already been recruited, as well as the thousands of hundred trainers, psychologists and social workers are the big capital and the great achievement of the Ministry of Education. Here I want to focus on the importance of psychologists and social workers. There are huge problems worldwide, we must lay the foundations for the new generation. We are encountering violence, particularly violence against women, and even domestic violence that has taken dimensions. From education, the foundations need to be in. The initiative to increase numbers and to have these people in schools in order to get the authorities, the rules, the bases and to have our children safe and, of course, to train each other in the best possible way. But, apart from the subject of scientists, who are done, education must take action for students too, for those who are already studying. It is undeniable that we have a large number of importers and a very small number of people who get the degree. One thing is that the numbers - whether they are the students who have been staying for too many years and who do not end or are really the ones who do not care about their school - are too large and we cannot leave them like that, but we have to do something. There's a minimum base coming in. Isn't that right? Isn't it a big advantage that anyone can study what they choose and not because they didn't get through anywhere, with 2, 3 or 5 is in a school? It's very important. It is an initiative that will help to have graduates where they have chosen, of course, with the n+2 and n+3, that is, the limited time that they will now be intensified and have people faster in their degrees. This is good for both their families and their country. Finally, I would like to refer to primary and secondary education. And that's where we've met a lot of vultures. I heard big words, but didn't anyone see it? Didn't we see that in our schools children are going and at the same time they're looking for a second education, additional? Why is that going on? Isn't that a form of evaluation of the educational system, teachers and teachers? It may not apply throughout the area, it may be a very good job to do, but should we leave it this way? Shouldn't corrective moves be made? Should we not strengthen and help the educational system? Shouldn't the student have what he needs to feel safe? Therefore, an organised system is being established with the consultants, with the consultants on the issues of education and scientific and service obligations to be fulfilled by teachers. Based on the evaluation, one must not be punished, simply where there are gaps, as the state owes it, to intervene in strengthening, helping, guiding, enriching, so that the student can have the best possible effect, and he who has made sure that he has all this knowledge either because he himself tried or from some circumstances happened to be in the large urban centres, he will be rewarded by becoming an instructor and has an incentive to work more effectively for every teacher in this direction. The word freedom comes into play in universities and teachers too. First of all, at the university on the basis of which it freely develops its own base - of course, with a security link on the average level to be obtained by the candidates - as well as in schools, the opportunity is given by the book and individual issues bank to develop an initiative, based on the interests of the children, and to teach them in a more spontaneous, more realistic, closer to the students. I would also like to say that it is very important and that it is taken care of in the field of church education. Orthodomy has been the support of the country of the country, the family. It supports social cohesion. He's been helping in the difficult times and he's still helping. It is important that she is given an upgrade, standing next to the Ministry, which ensures that there is more information and knowledge through the school of apprenticeship for future clergymen, who will be next to each man and will be represented in the difficult hours. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that when you want to improve things, when you want to work, very clearly and some things will be changed and some will be unravelled and perhaps have some charges and political costs. Fortunately, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Minister do not enter such a dilemma. No political interest can be above the interest of the new generation of students and students, and we will actually all work and support this effort because we care about youth, because we owe it to our home and to the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u148	Next speaker, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are approaching the end of Parliament's work and yet the government has increased its parliamentary work. We have, since last week, a series of legislations and a number of serious amendments and others come from what we learn. No one is saying that Parliament's work should be reduced. However, in the way you are adopting, we live in a feared government that its practices are causing reactions. You're trying to get the thief to pass legislation that dilutes the future of the country. This period is, unfortunately, an extraordinary treaty. There should be only one criterion for policy implementation. What's that? To make people's lives easier. What do you do about it? You are constantly creating impurities and difficulties in the world. You share opportunities with the few. You steal the future of the many. You're stealing the future of our children. The history of pandemic has shown us or should have shown us the importance of reducing inequality. You should have realised that the response to the stumbling of any kind of crisis, whether health or economic, is to create the conditions to compensate for the effects of the crisis. Your own policies during the health crisis targeting, gentlemen of the government? You hit the industrial relations with the Hatzidakis bill. In the mid-term, the model of private insurance for young workers is introduced, with the new insurance. You bring education bills, which directly puts the educational community and the students. You've targeted the youth, and that's not gonna work out for you. For example, I mentioned a recent OECD study that gives our country a sad first, as young people and young people eighteen to twenty-nine seem to be the most stressed of their finances and their well-being. Another huge "success" of yours! What are you doing? You bring a bill, which bears a double misleading title. Neither education is upgraded nor are teachers strengthened. Education policy is once again moving in the logic of quality for a few people at the expense of equality and justice. What quality and excellence are you talking about? With your choices, you are cutting off from the universities of excellent students, from whom you are deprived of the opportunity to study at their school of choice. Is that your excellence? Fortunately, you removed the provision after the general outcry and separation of students. This bill is a natural continuation and upgrading of political and social discrimination, at the expense of the people's classes in the field of primary and secondary education. In other words, it is coming to supplement the legislation to strengthen private colleges, university police, the regulations on experimental and standard schools. The legislature strengthens the role of key links between the executive hierarchy, regional director, quality supervisor, school manager and others. It certainly weakens all collective expression and representation in the educational institutions. Your policies, however, are aligned and targeted. They aim to create opportunities for a few, to reduce health and education spending, to flexibility in the labour market and, ultimately, to validate market rules in every spectrum of public life. You are counting on the long-awaited growth in labour intensification. School and higher education must therefore be adapted to you. What is the aim of the minimum import base, the topic bank, the establishment of a national scale examinations in the sixth grade and in the third grade? Surely the reduced introduction of students to universities, which you first implemented from the same year of legislation, leaving thousands of students outside the HEI. In the midst of a pandemic, we have the largest reduction of importers since 1837, founded by the University of Athens. That's the first time we've got vacant posts. Tell us at least one European or American university that leaves empty places for admissionees. You continue your myth. Our President Alexis Tsipras told you in his speech yesterday in the House of Bank of Greece. The young eighteen to twenty-four years old, not graduating from our universities, the year 2018 was only 4.7% compared with 14.2% in 2009, when in the Europe of twenty-eight members the corresponding figure is 10.6%. Are you questioning it? Remove the Regional Centres for Educational Design, where the main aim was to support the school unit from a multidisciplinary group. Restore the school’s individual teaching guidance and restore the old-fashioned inspector. Set up the model of the educational counselor, who without knowing the daily life of the school unit comes to transfer knowledge and solutions. At the same time, the authority of the school director is being strengthened. Finally, by a provision which did not exist in the consultation, it is laid down that evaluation is a duty of service and failure to perform it constitutes a specific disciplinary action. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With your tolerance, Mr President, I shall be a half-minute. You are making your policy a reformist and modernist one. It is a model of conservatism's most failed recipes, a plan with authoritarianism, neoliberalism, ideologies and interest service, policies that will enhance the insecurity of citizens and broaden the inequalities, "laws and order" a la Reagan and, respectively, aggressive policies in the range of work and social state Thatcher. For us, the strategic choice is the knowledge society and the economy of strong added value. This presupposes investing in public education, as I have heard from my previous colleague. However, it requires the creation of conditions for access to it, ladies and gentlemen. You must finally understand in the New Democracy that knowledge is not only a prerequisite for participation in the labour market. Education is the stepping stone, bridging inequality and giving opportunities. It's not trade, it's not the supply of cheap workers to the companies. Knowledge and education are essential for a healthy democratic society. We should also recognise that, in the two pandemic school years, huge educational gaps have been created, no matter what this means for the psychology of students. On the contrary, you go ahead with your plan as if that were not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u150	We are now continuing with Mr. Kiridis Dimitris from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. If you were to summarise our debate, you would at least see two fundamental differences between us in the Government and you in the Civic Opposition. The first difference is about the role of money. For you what is lacking in education is money, more money, more teachers, more resources and nothing else. For decades you have told us and told us again, regardless of when you came to power, you have done nothing about it. Of course, money is important. Of course, resources are necessary. It is a condition, but it is not in itself a sufficient condition for the upgrading of education. It takes other things. In a broken system no matter how much money you throw, you won't have the result you want. We're also throwing money. We proceed to eleven thousand assignments. It's an unheard of number. I would like to remind you that today's primary school population is half of what was forty years ago and that the law-making will slowly reduce the need for teachers because of the limitation of pupils. It is not the appointments that panacea, it is how we use these new teachers better through a new institutional framework and the changes we need. That's our difference. We believe in resources and money, but we do not consider them enough on their own. We need another policy, another philosophy, another institutional framework. The second point of the big difference with you has to do with the role of the teacher who is undoubtedly central. For you, the educational system exists for the sake of the teacher. And allow me to do this myself as an instructor to disagree vertically. The educational system first exists for the sake of the student, the student and the entire Greek society and its needs. It cannot proceed without an upgraded position in the educational system, but it is not the needs of the educational system that the principle and the end of the educational system are not the needs of the educational system. And I've been talking to you, as I told you, and as a professor for over 20 years at a Greek public university. And since the Chief also talked to you about autobiographically, many of you talked about public universities, to tell you that I, too, studied at the public university by passing through the first in 1987 - and I am very proud of it - in law Thessaloniki and then to good American nonprofit, non-profit, in America with a scholarship from the Hellenic Foundation of State Scholarships, that is, from the Greek state, in which I remain forever grateful for this generosity. And I remember with great gratitude, love and appreciation the role of IKH officials who then helped me, in the early 1990s, to go to Boston and to fulfill with resources the Greek taxpayer my dream. Well, I'm bowing. However, I have never understood either then or since then my role as a professor at the Greek university has been self-sufficient and self-evident. I have been and we are the teachers for the sake of our students and students. Our government - emphasised - proceeded to assignments, proceeded to pre-school education - very critical bet -, proceeded to the introduction of English from kindergarten, proceeded to a number of things. The Prime Minister and the Minister have also been mentioned in detail in this regard. Now we are going to make some self-evident changes, for which I think it would be a mistake, and it is a mistake to waste a lot of time at least at the outset. We cannot, in 2021, discuss whether or not we need the evaluation of teaching staff. These have been solved everywhere in the rest of Europe. We can't be the proud exception. We cannot discuss the autonomy and self-action of school units. We should finally leave this over-centralised educational system, unique for OECD countries. All the studies tell us. The Minister stressed it in her prototype. So that's self-evident. I move on, because I do not want the two main complaints to remain unanswered, both by your rapporteur, Mr Philly, the dear friend, and also by the Chief of Officer Opposition in his dentistry. The first is to do with the minimum import base. A lot has been said and the famous one about Anna Diamantopoulou was said and how the base of "10" was abolished in 2010. What has not been said is that the '10' base in 2010 was abolished to return to improved, because the '10' base is something arbitrary. Everyone understands it. It is completely different to "10" in medicine and completely different to "10" in a TEI. So we need differentiation. And, secondly, we need universities to have a role to play in the decision. That was Anna Diamantopoulou's thinking. I do not now want to enter the inside of PASOK, I have the President from above to abdicate me in this regard, but the fact is that in the debate at the Ministry of Education for those who know and in 2011 and 2012 it was that it would come back better, just as we do, differentiated from school to school and, of course, with a speech from the universities themselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. If the minimum import base at that time was meaningful, in 2006, which was initiated today in the way we introduce it, all the debate that took place in the intervening period, today 2021, makes even more sense. Because what did he get through? Your incarcerable university populism. You founded dozens of sections across the territory, you ranked the TEIs without evaluation, without conditions, without the necessary, you have built sections on the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u152	One hundred and fifty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u153	One hundred and fifty three reminds us of the Minister. If that's possible! Approximately 35% -40% more within a five-year period without increased resources, only to be available on paper to settle either local societies and local requests or to say that we have increased positions without conditions. So now the streamlining we need is even more necessary the Minimum Import Base than before. The second complaint is about the number of students. You say that again for Mr Stournara, for the Bank of Greece. Mr. Tsipras said so yesterday. I heard him carefully. We said we'd make it clear. Studies are of the OECD. The methodology used by the OECD is the same for all countries. It's about all registered students. The fact that in Greece we have many registered people who are inactive is true. But take the next step, as you denounce it. Come and talk about how to clean up university registers from the inactive, chronic, chronic students to have real students and not to pay the Greek public all, student housing and a number of other privileges to those who are now inactive after a transitional stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u154	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u155	Therefore, Mr President, on the one hand, we cannot do anything for the eternal, to have eternal eternity, but then, when counting on the total number, to report it and say that it must change. If there is - and I close - a criticism that can be made in all these self-evident things that the bill makes, an inducement, if you wish, Minister, is to go even more dynamically, even more decisively. I believe that the evaluation - and I am clear and I say it as an educational teacher, and I know that most of us want it - needs to be linked to the rating, and it has to be linked to the payroll. You have to. The Greek society is mature for these changes. Beyond the advisory role, from self-improvement, from teaching, from all the good, in a society, not the angels' society, but in the society of this world, without motivation, you cannot have better teachers and in order to have better teachers you must also give appropriate incentives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u157	That is my view, too, as an educator, having devoted my life to the education of the new generation, I will continue to fight in this House as well as in the future. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u158	Be well. We will continue with Mrs Malama from SYRIZA. Then there's Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Biagis from the Webex Change Movement and Mr. Consolas. That's the show. Here, Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I must remind you that we have drawn up the tables and completed the process for the appointment of teachers. You just ignored it. And we are going to the today we are discussing this bill on the basis of the government pogrom against the new children who participated in the pan-Hellenic examinations this year, children who have become accomplices and because of the ideological obsession of the Minister and the government are left out of their choices because of the application of the minimum import base. Today, Minister, thousands of families are disappointed, thousands of children see their hardships not to be rewarded because you legislated the blockade of our young people from the public university. Today we are talking about the internet - to be allowed to express - from college adverts trying to fish for customers in general frustration, selling for three-year low-quality programmes of study, addressing frustrated families who experience the deadlock in which you condemned them. How can you allow ‘14’ or ‘15’ to be defined as a minimum? Where does this arbitraryness come from? What exactly does the public university gain from this appalling loss of young students? What exactly does our national education gain from this cruel and unfair separation? Universities with closed, guarded doors and cameras, families in a dead end and speculation party from colleges, this is the result of your policy. You're talking in the bill to upgrade school and strengthen teachers. With the provisions of the bill, you are doing exactly the opposite. You want to return the training to a school model where the manager will have the role of master, where the school club will have no real reason and role in the daily life of the school unit, a school where the evaluation of the educational project will be based on threats. And we ask you: In what way do you legislate all this, while at the same time all your policies have failed at every level of education? With what reason, Minister? You are the Minister of Lockdown, the Lockdown in education, the Minister who has been staring at closed schools for one year, looking inertly at closed universities. How do your European counterparts appreciate your response to the educational needs of the pandemic? Do you know any other country in lockdown training for almost a year and a half? You both go out and the government and move your fingers to young people at every opportunity. You closed the universities last year from the beginning of the year to the end, targeting students as health bombs. Thousands of families paid a student house free for one year. In schools, endless months of teleteaching have brought students, their families and teachers to their limits. And within this grim picture of a country with an educational system in dissolution, what was your only concern? Legislate university police, cut children from universities, premium colleges, and now legislate the principal - master and punishing evaluation. But you also introduced a dangerous arrangement, that of the manager of private sponsorships, to strengthen - it says - the autonomy of the school unit. Do you know what that means? Firstly, that the State is withdrawn by silence from its constitutional obligation to equal access to education for all. We constantly denounce the absence of the state from the needs of school units. We see that in the last two years in our schools there has been a rapid deterioration in infrastructure. In the school units of Halkidiki they literally drop the drums. In school units particularly of special education one is ashamed of what one sees, in school units in mountainous areas, in school units children are stacked on rooftops because there are no rooms, children with motor problems, and what do you say? Go look for sponsorships! Congratulations! So you're talking about upgrading school, but teachers feel you're mocking them. Let me submit in the minutes the Halkidiki Primary Education Directorate's document with the organisational gaps that are currently facing the municipal and preschool schools of the prefecture. You have received it, too, but we doubt that you have studied it. It notes the document that Halkidiki’s Primary Education is faced with a hundred ninety - five organic infantry and teacher gaps. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] A similar picture to both high school and high school. And we ask you: will you do something or will you be indifferent, as you did last year? Are you going to let the children who give pan-Hellenic without professors back to Easter? And lastly, because the Minister appears as the founder of the teleconferencing conference, I would like to present in the Minutes another document on the tragic subsidization of the Halkidiki Education Department. We have been pointing out the problem for at least one year and you do not care. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] However, the most tragic thing is that for over a year the Halkidiki Education Directorates, which were supposed to coordinate telephony for over three hundred school units, do not have IT and new technologies. Do your colleagues know that at the Education Council in Brussels? Did you tell them? For a year and a half, you have been blocked by the arrangements that are requested by the Education Directors of Halkidiki and you have just introduced the provision in Article 20 to cover the job of teachers outside the relevant training department, if anyone finds themselves in meeting the problem. Hopefully, we'll see. In conclusion, I would like to stress that what the young people who, because of the New Democracy, did not get through to the university this year are the commitment of Alexis Tsipras to retroactively abolish the minimum import base and the possibility of submitting a new computer once SYRIZA returns to the government. This year's injustice is not going to pass and we will do everything we can to prevent a neoliberal minister from turning the way for young people to learning and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. Now the Independent MEP, Mrs Adamou Konstantina, has asked for the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be present today as an Independent MEP, since, for internal party reasons, I have been independent from the Mera25. We see that Mrs Kerameou and the Ministry of Education during their friendly tactics bring the fourth anti-educational bill to the House. And they do this just in the summer, with the schools and the world closed up trying to breathe some fresh air into nature after so many months of hard measures, and of course, in the midst of restoring the pandemic cases mainly of the Delta strain. This bill is essentially the continuation of Law 4777/2021, which placed police officers in universities and then institutionalised the minimum import base for them, thus excluding more than twenty-five thousand young people from the public universities. Madam Minister, once again you are - with authoritarianism, we would say - against the whole educational community, which has clearly shown its reaction to this bill too, but you are deaf. You are taking advantage of these exceptional circumstances and attempting once again to impose a regime of fear and surveillance. Reading the bill of two hundred and thirty - eight pages, we can see that it is mainly based on four pillars. Firstly, the provisions concerning structures and training staff, secondly, the evaluation of officials, teachers and other educational staff, thirdly, the provisions on the autonomy of the school unit and, fourthly, the provisions on church education. So by taking each part separately, the first part describes the formation of a strictly hierarchical and multi-faceted control and evaluation mechanism. Along with the existing administrative pyramid, evaluative structures are being created which are the key elements of the implementation of government policy. In the hierarchy there are vertically structured five categories of supervisors who replace the coordinators, to then reach school-level coordinators, class coordinators and mentors who will form the direct links to the implementation of government policy within the school unit. So this is a hard upward hierarchical model that will nullify the class teacher, who, despite all the opposite, will be the last to speak of the educational process. With regard to the second pillar on the evaluation of teachers, staff and other educational staff, it is understood that teachers should be assessed for the improvement of the educational process. But here we are not talking about a substantial evaluation that takes place in the educational environment, but about a mandatory assessment which will have serious consequences for teachers. Especially if a training executive refuses to undergo a specific evaluation process, either as an evaluator or as an evaluator at any stage thereof, or impedes it by its general attitude, it will be replaced and excluded from the selection procedure for the fulfilment of any training staff position for the next eight years. In addition, there will be a withholding wages of up to one month and a non-wage development of those who refuse the evaluation. It is also foreseen that a semi-structured interview between the assessor and each of his assessors shall be conducted for the evaluation of the training staff. In other words, this is an instantaneous - I stress, instantly - an evaluation of the educational process based on obsolete and conservative standards and does not concern a substantial and ecosystem assessment of the environment in which the process is being conducted. With regard to the third pillar of autonomy of school units, the choice of a book from each school unit raises serious questions about the quality of the curriculum, but also about the level of logistics at the beginning of each school year, regarding the early printing and distribution of different books in primary and secondary schools. Already in previous years there has been a serious blockade in the distribution of books. We can all imagine what is going to happen from now on with the time the books are delivered to the students. In addition, Article 85(3) states that in parallel to the teaching book chosen by the school unit, the teacher will be able to use all the teaching books of the respective course in digital format, as well as the digital media that will be posted and available in a digital library. But I ask you, Mrs Keramemo, how can you talk about digital books when you do not provide the corresponding digital technology to all students and all students, as well as to all school units? Obviously, our students and students will again pass the teletext technology fiasco. In addition, the regulation is particularly problematic for teachers to be a minority in the composition of the school board, where only the school director and a representative of the school club are involved. I should like to point out here that in the consultation of the bill, the provision provided for a four-member representation by teachers. But in depositing the bill, you reduced them to half. In other words, it is a school board which will be designated by the mayor, who will also have two representatives. So we understand that in many cases the board will act as a sounding board of central policy. Going now to the fourth pillar of the bill on church education, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Education and Religion, you have received many requests, but also a question from me about the professional rights of the graduates of church relics of the highest church academy. The curriculum of this department is four years of study, such as all EITs in the country, and corresponds to two hundred fifty teaching units. They must therefore have professional rights and be integrated into the payroll of university education rather than shut down schools. However, as far as these rights are concerned, the constant demands have not been accepted, despite all the pressure you have received from the graduates, but also from me personally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is imperative to grant directly to the graduates of the management of church relics of the highest church academies a licence to pursue a profession in the maintenance of antiquities and works of art in order to allow the taking up of public and private works in the maintenance of cultural goods. You must stop treating Byzantine cultural heritage with barbarity and indifference and condemning long-term unemployment people who have invested time, money and energy in something they love. Furthermore, the Ministry of Education and Mrs Kerameos should understand that the public school is not a business and that public education is not and should not be treated as a product. They should understand that education has man at the heart of her existence. Its dominant aim should be to develop critical thinking, to liberate creative capacities, to cultivate human values, and to overthrow the disparity conditions for students. The provision of the public good of quality education is a crucial parameter for the progress and social well-being of the new generation, as well as for the entire Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. Now we are going to the Webex speaker with Mr. Dimitrios Biagis from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of the summer and with closed schools we are discussing in plenary today the bill on the new school, which, unfortunately, is not a product of substantial study and dialogue, but a string of anachronistic and outdated logics and practices for mainly communication. Watching the Minister, I do not hide from you that I feel like I hear a very nice novel with very well-written characters and a very well-deserved scene, similar to that of fairy tales with a happy ending for everyone. In fact, at some point, I felt that we were talking about the educational system of a Utopian country, which is not called upon to face specific crisis conditions, such as the one we experience with the pandemic, but which has structures that are sound, strong, active, and indeed very well founded. Unfortunately, Minister, our educational system has ceased to go hand in hand with the needs of our time. Today's school provides one-sided oriented education with an emphasis on a technocratic and beneficial character, while its humanitarian character has been neglected. The students are in a state of spiritual monologue, I'd say. School does not give issues that touch social reality, thus allowing children to take wrong decisions that determine the quality of their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to look objectively at the quality of our education, it is enough to see their reflection in our own society. The exacerbation of the violence, the murders and this social hysteria that we live in conjunction with the loneliness experienced by our fellow humans and because of the pandemic clearly demonstrate that the country somewhere has failed in this part. And you know why he's obviously failed? Because today, in the face of the nightmare of the fourth wave of pandemic and mutations, we are talking about evaluation and upgrading, which, to avoid misunderstanding, are all useful and unquestionable. However, perhaps they should be considered timely in view of the issue of ensuring the public health of teachers, pupils and, more generally, the student community. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic together with the fourth industrial revolution has gradually changed the socio-economic reality. It is all our duty to work together in a common context and for a common goal, to invent a new educational model that will form scientists, graduates and young people who will exploit their talents and skills. So we need a radical change of culture. We need to draw up a course where its main features will be to provide young people with thinking tools that will enable them to evaluate themselves with their personal criteria for tomorrow's life. We need our children to learn the process of properly pumping, evaluating, analysing and projecting any information. This is how critical thinking is cultivated. They learn to read behind words and correctly choose what is really necessary for them because the ultimate purpose of education is to turn mirrors into windows of perspective. Madam Minister, with this draft law, enter the evaluation in education life. As our rapporteur has said to the committees - and not just, all of our speakers - we are not opposed in any way. But in order for evaluation to be fully integrated in the sense of improving educational data, it must be carried out in a broader and more comprehensive context, in conjunction with the assessment of structures and staff, in which training should obviously not be regarded as punishment. It is a crime to introduce such obsolete concepts as those of punishment and punishment into public life. But it is a duty in the developed, advanced, modern societies to introduce the reward, acceptance of mistakes and the possibility of trying, developing and re-orientating. The history of the place has, in fact, shown that re-insurgent, punishing, divisive methods have failed miserably. It is time, then, for teachers who every day give the battle and with a lot outdated in the halls and children who are pandemics of incarceration and pressure manifest, more aggressive and lively behaviors compared to previous generations who have not experienced the pandemic to create a new school that will focus on the instructor and the student. Madam Minister, you are talking about autonomy, freedom, decentralisation, when you yourself, with the provisions of this bill, are creating an institution, that of the supreme director, in fact, in the logic of administrative overconcentration, a well-known element in your policy. If one takes into account that the placement of managers in the educational institutions is accompanied by political preferences, then it could be very easy to claim that you are strengthening and expanding the customer state. The institution of the school advisor is underscored and the collective role of the Association of Teachers is removed. The institutions have told you this and, I repeat, I too: the extension of the terms of office of government directors takes place in the logic of permanence. The “oldest” directors will punish dissidents. The aim is the 'institutionalisation' of party and social dissidents. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my speech, I would also like to dwell on the multi-book and digital transformation that are certainly in a positive direction, but not fully integrated. And I note that in order not to say that we are making a sterile opposition. I also consider it very important to mention that the country's problem at this time is not to strengthen the role of the manager or to introduce English into kindergartens, although also useful. Parents and the whole school community are struggling for how school year starts, whether to send their children back to school, or whether we are going to take lessons for another year via WEBEX. The cruelty of the time is unfortunately defined as other priorities with more important health for all pupils and teachers. Have you ensured adequate rooms for students? Is there planning for a free school year as far as possible, or are we going to relive the tragedy phenomena of the previous years? If you want all to envision a new, upgraded and modern school together, based on the use of digital media with the corresponding educational guidance, proceed to a consultation with the relevant bodies. Sit down and discuss how we will contribute to the formation of social subjects with developed skills and talents, but also with moral principles and values that fight all forms of violence. In closing, we as a Movement of Change cannot consent with your own political philosophy. For us education is a national matter. For us, it is not wasted or given in over-concentrations and groanings. That is why all the major educational reforms have the seal on our party. If you were interested in the real problems of students who are miserable, believe me you would not tell me about the sterile communication policy that you are trying to pass today, serving the kind of education that teaches you to fight to overcome all others, but not to overcome yourself. Unfortunately, once again from political proposals and initiatives you have succeeded, looking at your education only your idol in the mirror and not the necessary window in the future. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u164	Be well. We now continue with Mr.Efstathios Konstantinides from New Democracy, in a natural presence, immediately after Mr. Apostolos Panas through WEBEX from the Change Movement, Mr. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we often see in the reforms is that, while at a general and abstract level, we are all looking for them at a specific and specific level, if not negative. This is not only because of the power of habit, the most loyal soldier of stagnation, but also because of the syndicate and political purposes they exploit or and even foment fear for the new one. The same is happening here. The majority of citizens, but also the school community, recognizes that the educational system does not respond to modern data. It does not reveal and develop the talents of the students, it does not strengthen their skills, it does not provide them with high knowledge and modern tools, it is not sufficiently decentralized, it does not provide freedoms to educational cells, i.e. in school units and it does not have pluralism to the taught material. It does not give incentives and does not fairly assess the progress and performance of teachers. It does not provide considerable room for service for them. Sadly, though, some are obsessed with changes. Contrary to this perception, the draft law puts the finger on educational suns and gives answers to chronic problems of primary and secondary education by adopting valid and recognised teaching methods, using the best international experiences, away from hooks and stereotypes. The introduced arrangements aim at upgrading the quality of public education through the reform of its structures, the continuous and systematic evaluation of its potential through the continuous improvement of their educational work, the expansion of the autonomy of the school units by ensuring freedom to the organization of teaching, the strengthening of the role of the director of the school unit, and of those teachers who have positions of responsibility, but also in terms of transparency throughout the school period, and, finally, the organisation of church education on a new basis and the resolution of other issues affecting all levels of education. The debate on the bill focused mainly on the following chapters: evaluation, taboo - not only for education but generally for public administration. It may be a self-evident process for the rest of the world, but for our country, "wrap, rout, work, don't miss you". The rapporteur has well documented the imperfect efforts to date to establish an acceptable evaluation system that rewards the worker, the skill and the production worker. But in every such project, something has always been unsatisfactory. We had something missing, always something could have been different. And since we couldn't find the perfect method, SYRIZA came to completely abolish the evaluation on at least the criteria for selecting executives in education! Under the relevant arrangements of the draft law, the evaluation becomes a tool for rewarding the efforts of teachers and managers, as well as improving them where they may experience weaknesses. Of course, the myth of counterpopulation for alleged redundancies has collapsed noisyly. Instead of redundancies, more than sixteen thousand in education, tens of thousands in total in security, justice, immigration, health and other key sectors of public administration were recruited. So SYRIZA was forced to turn it into the opposition of the unfulfilled overcompensation. "We would have done it too," he says "but we did not do it", to remember that memorable saying of the historic leader of the Left. Another issue on which dialogue focused was that of decentralisation. To date, the educational system has been suffocatingly controlled by the centre. All responsibilities and decisions were of the Minister: books, programmes, examination procedures and other activities. The relevant information received during the parliamentary debate by the Minister is shocking. The Director of the Greek School has fewer responsibilities than in all the countries of the European Union. In order to form the material, its participation is at 1% compared with 22% in the OECD countries. In order to formulate the evaluation framework, he is responsible for 5% in Greece compared with 32% in the OECD countries. In order to raise additional resources for school in 5% in Greece compared to 40% in the countries concerned. The current government is dismantling these powers and gives a vital role and space to the schools themselves to form essential aspects of the education process within a system of two-way controls. And all this without the central government being relieved of any obligations or liability. The same direction allows the school to make use of its facilities and, at the end of the day, to develop activities and partnerships with other schools, to undertake educational or social interventions, initiatives. Moreover, areas of the reform bill constitute the multiple book and the digital library, the alternative examination procedures and the encouragement of group and cooperation between students. But very substantial intervention is also the creation of a thousand hundred organic positions of psychologists and social workers for children who need additional support. Our ambition and aim is from the new school year to have in full the development of two-year pre-school education, English from pre-school, the implementation of a skill program, the continuing training of our teachers, a hundred and twenty-three new curricula, the start of the new models and experimental schools and training schools, and of course the new legislative framework for primary and secondary education. In other words, a new and modern school environment that goes hand in hand with the country's development and will guarantee students and students that their efforts and supplies will take place here, in their place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Apostolos Pana from the Change Movement. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u167	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has already emerged from previous meetings, the Ministry of Education's draft law brings great changes in the functioning of the school and the administration of education. Indeed, the design of these reclassifications is taking place at the moment when we should be concerned about how next year our schools will be safely opened up and we will not have the phenomena that we had during this year's school year. Minister, you choose to legislate in the summer, with all the educational structures closed and visible now the painful consequences of the introduction of the minimum import base. This multi-lingual draft for multi-patient education is accompanied by a total absence of institutional dialogue, as its entry into consultation was not a product of dialogue in order to create a climate of consensus and a long-term agreement on education policy. It is a bill that very simply undermines collectiveity. In particular, the issues arising from this legislative project concern the implementation of the evaluation in a punishable manner, the composition of the school board, the establishment of the selection board of school directors and the non-measurement of the teaching service in support institutions, such as school advisors and innovative actions. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although my time is not enough, let me remain on a number of points that concern me. In particular, I would like to refer to the fact that the decentralisation of responsibilities for regional education is not promoted, which would contribute to the effectiveness of the administration, in the evaluation that is considered to be a key issue for us in providing quality of education, and which must undoubtedly not stop teachers, but should involve both evaluation of structures and programmes and resources. And I will insist on this point and I will warn you that this draft law introduces a descriptive assessment for teachers and arithmetic evaluation for executives, which risks causing problems in the transformation of evaluation and has already been emphasised in terms of our extradition. For this reason, a specific provision should be made for teachers wishing to place a member of the training to declare in writing that they wish to be assessed on the basis of the relevant criteria. In addition, we are opposed to the anonymous assessment of the heads of government, having even our ally of the S.H.E.'s decision. For moral and pedagogical reasons, then, the evaluation should be called and all those involved, judging and judging, should be responsible for their judgment. In addition to this, however, this bill is supposed to promote and promote the autonomy of the school unit. But what we see is the transfer of competences from the school club to the director, giving him superpowers and undermining collectiveism and the teacher club itself. The dramatic decline in the role of the teachers' club is therefore in complete contrast with the improvement required. The role of the Teachers' Association should be strengthened, as it determines, on the basis of the particular needs of pupils, the specialised teaching objective of the school unit under the principles of collectiveness and transparency. So, over and above the punitive nature of the evaluation provisions, which we could accept if it were working for the benefit of both the teachers themselves and the entire educational community and not on a negative scale, let me continue. This bill has taken its flow from it seems and also degrades the educational dimension of the learning process, while it strengthens competition thanks to the F-graduate and C-graduate printing exercises. As a result of the educational sector, not counting the teaching service of this school counsellor, the teachers of environmental education centres, health education and cultural issues seems incomprehensible to me. Although the removal of this pre-service was done by Law 4547/2018 on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and after thirty-six years, you are not prepared to correct their error. Minister, we have waited for a bill where the focus of attention of the proposed arrangements would be on improving educational services to students, developing knowledge, critical thinking and developing the skills of the twentieth century, a bill where the centre of attention of the new regulations would be the release of the professional potential of teachers in a context of greater freedom, lasting support and control. Unfortunately, this bill, although it bears the label of modernization in education, does not allow the school to function democratically, nor in its everyday life, nor in the evaluation process, if the competences of the teachers' association are indeed removed. So the inadequacy of school infrastructure has also become evident in the telecoms section, Minister, with the main affected pupils of public schools in poor and isolated areas. So as a Change Movement, we are here and we ask you to launch a direct dialogue on how our schools will open up in early September and how through a well thought out strategic plan we will be able to bring about substantial reforms in the field of education. Finally, I ask you to consider both the proposals we have tabled, as a Change Movement, and the amendment we have tabled to you on the subject: "Restoration of injustice for undetermined successors of the 2008 SAAP competition". With all this, obviously, we cannot vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Pana, for the time. Mr Anastassios Publicakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a reform effort to modernise and upgrade primary and secondary education in our country. We create the qualitatively upgraded school, operating as a lever for social mobility. These changes are dictated by the Greek family itself, students and teachers. All trapped in failures and deadlocks of the past, we are fighting for the future of basic education. We pass through memorization in critical analysis and thought, forming citizens with knowledge, character and morality. For this reason, the self-sufficiency of school units is being strengthened, a practice applied by most countries, with the exception of our country, unfortunately. There is now greater freedom for teachers. At the same time, a mechanism for assessing this project is being introduced, with a view to vocational development and development of teachers, with a view to helping pupils. Unfortunately, Greece is again a negative exception, as we are from the few countries right now where teachers are not being evaluated. With this draft law, that changes. Education structures for the effective teaching support of the autonomous school are strengthened. It is planned to apply skill workshops throughout the territory and to introduce English into kindergartens. Thousands of organic posts are also introduced for psychologists and social workers in schools, focusing on other sensitive fields, while at the same time modernising and organizing secondary, postgraduate and higher church education on a new basis. Madam Minister and State Secretary, I would like to express my sincere congratulations, but also to express my satisfaction at the amendment providing for a housing allowance exceptionally for undergraduate students who are introduced and registered in the academic year 2021-2022 at the Democritus University of Thrace, the Aesthetic University of Aegean and the University of Western Macedonia. The Government of New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, with the Prime Minister's directive, proves in practice that it supports the universities in the outermost regions. However, the Civic Opposition, which now tears its garments, received the Halloween Halloween University from a fourth university in the country and handed it over to the tenth place. In fact, your former Minister, the genuine contributor, took the foundations of Kavala, the Dubot and Drama and took them to foreigners. Where? Thessaloniki. And he did not have the bravery, nor the sensitivity with which each Minister of Education should serve, to go to the local University of East Macedonia and Thrace. Regarding the Evros Prefecture, I have already presented a documented educational reform plan, collaborating with academics, with factors, with productive classes. In fact, it is a visionary project, which is the development of the Twin wall at the fifth seat of the Democritus University, which is still alive. It is a project in which, unfortunately, a number of glowing glow of willing and skillful have been created lately. However, we continue to be mercifully, wisely and with a spirit of peace to highlight and claim the satisfaction of the lawful request of the city of castles, with the guarantee of the Ministry of Education and we are happy to expect very briefly - so we inspire - your initiatives, acting as God's machine in an imminent tragedy in the city. I also suggested the setting-up of schools in line with the agri-food character of the county in a project that I presented to the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at our meeting on Monday, in relation to this level of education. As I supported over time, I highlight the need for the Sirothesis - Beekeeping School in the silk city of Soufli. This recommendation will be the educational centre to testify to the knowledge of the specific professional activity in question in order not only to rely on empirical but also on a scientific basis. In addition, the Municipality of Soufli, with the spear’s edge the Forest of Dadia, has a rich mountainous volume, which is suitable for the exercise of logging, but which is carried out without training, often in anarchist manner and without certification. The creation of a Sailing School and its condolences with the proposed Schedules of Sirogiorgia and Beekeeping will be addressed to the members of the cooperatives who are already engaged in the profession. The educational staff already exist, Minister, in the two departments of the University of Orestiad, and I believe they will also find a way out of the danger. I am pleased that this design has been warmly welcomed by your Ministry and that important steps are taken to implement it. In fact, we have recently visited your Secretary-General, Mr Voutsinos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. I would like to add that Evros, having a great fishing field in the North Aegean and the Thracian Sea and in the River Evros, is ideally offered to set up a fishing school for fishermen and fishermen, which can also operate as part of an inland fishing in the area of Ferres near the river Evros delta and as part of coastal fishing in Samothraki. I would like to point out that there is no public school in Greece today, in a fisherman's country. This needs to be changed and the ideal field is Evros. Of course, the establishment of a postgraduate vocational school in the New Orestiad of artificial natural gas facilities in general is of interest, as the mayor claims it to me recently. The current government, ladies and gentlemen, while remaining faithful to its election commitments, disguises the needs of society, unleashes the creative initiative of our teachers, who are a key link in the effective educational process. Evaluation and improvement mechanisms are being created. Let us join a unified front in order to create fields worthy of all Greeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for three to four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to refer to two amendments that we have tabled and to ask the Minister to tell us whether he accepts them. We ask for them to be accepted. If they don't, tell us why they won't be accepted. The first concerns the establishment of a foreignlanguage department in Patriarchia Highest Ecclesiastes Academy of Crete. In short, to say that the Patriarchy of the Highest Church Academy of Crete, which has been operating since 2007 with two sections, can be upgraded and a polo of attraction for students from all Mediterranean countries, the Balkans and the world. The xeno-language section can really strengthen its extroversion and thus have a modern perspective for both of us. I think that, at a time when the Presidential Decree proposed by the Ministry, as our amendment provides, almost all the issues are dealt with by the name, function, the procedure for selecting students - who, I say, will be foreign students and who have not graduated from Greek high school - it will apply in analogy to other regulations applicable to other universities. We therefore want that amendment to be accepted by the President-in-Office, and then we want to start the work of the section. The second amendment relates to a restoration of injustice for undetermined successors of the 2008 SAAP competition and constitutes a state compliance with the 527/2015 Plenary Assembly decision of the Council of State, which has been complied with by a thousand waves. Unfortunately, the relevant provision that had been adopted does not apply in a rational manner. Unfortunately, today, there is a significant number of teachers who took part in the 2008 competition, scored well above others who have been appointed for procedural reasons - or for administrative or political reasons - have not been justified by joining the human resources of education. We believe that this obligation of the state at some point needs to be met and it is time, since we are talking about upgrading education in this bill. I must tell you that at the hearings of judges in the context of the Conference of Presidents, in order to give an opinion on their promotion - the final decision is made by the Ministerial Council, as you know - I raised this question, not with the specific features, but by not describing them, to many judges and it was evident in favour of the state's obligation to comply with the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. So I want your answer to that too. I now come to the ministerial amendment, which unfortunately comes to bring the bars back to Thrace. The ministerial amendment, which refers to the exclusion of minority schools from specific provisions of the bill, comes to downgrade what Greece supports, is a democratic country, observes the Constitution and also respects human rights. It is unacceptable that the exemption procedure is in place. At the same time, however, it also highlights the sloppyness of the relevant articles from which it comes to exempt minority schools. And what do I mean? If the articles in question were shielded, you would not have to, and in the sense of yours, this amendment would have to be yours. For example, where you talk about cooperation with sports organisations, etc., that schools can do so - why should minority groups be excluded? - put in institutional armour, certified bodies. Where you are talking about funding in the article, is there only a risk of funding and converting it into a funder's tool? Isn't there for the other schools? So put institutional armour on it too, so that any school can be guaranteed. So you will also cover the minority with the fears you have. I respect fears and different views, but we can say by internal or European institutions and, indeed, by those who fulfil the conditions for transparency of data. Taxes, etc. Third point. Excluded from the selection of the minority programme the multiple book. That's where I think your article covers it, because your article says they choose from books approved by the IPP. If you have no confidence in the EPA for the books it has approved, there is no reason to make the exception in this article, even with your own reasoning. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that our position in this bill, which is essentially a multi-legislative bill without principle and finally, has been addressed by many serious issues otherwise, it has been done on the articles. Specific articles and specific themes which we are in agreement with have been politically supported. In the articles we vote accordingly, but all these are negative, which will not help education but in the way they are regulated will cause more problems than they will solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. We are now continuing with Mr Christo Goka from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the communication management and promotion of this draft law on the upgrading of the school, by the government and the Minister personally, and in this very important matter for public education, we are again seeing the lack of public dialogue and substantial consultation, but also the impossibility of the government to understand and testify to an integrated, modern and realistic educational reform based on the real needs of society and the educational community today. Of course, this bill follows on from the overall educational policy of the Government of New Democracy, as we see it unfolding for two years with spirit and authoritarianism, but also party control and manipulation, as well as management issues, but also the functioning of the school and the participation of teachers whose role is degraded. Instead of choosing a conciliation procedure for a serious national education plan, go ahead with your own choices. You continue the logic of the liquidation of Law 1566/1985 of this emblematic law, without proposing a framework for the modern era. Following the degradation of the educational system by the SYRIZA - ANEL government and the Gavroglou law, with the populism and the huge cost of education and the quality of the education provided, with the abolition of full-day schools, the degradation of the value and role of high school and high school, the disorganization of higher education, the Government of New Democracy is coming to show with every alleged reform proposal, an anachronism that does not strengthen and ensure the nature of public education as a good for every young child and its right to equal education and personal progress. The fact is that the SYRIZA Government has established handy, without studies and evaluations and without preparation for their organisation and operation the thirty-seven new university departments that have never operated. But the current New Democracy government is coming and without the opinion of the institutions, it is being swept away, without any evaluation again. How do you speak in Article 185 of the Senate’s opinion? In this case, have you received these opinions? For example, how do you abolish the Department of Food and Nutrition Sciences in Arta, when it is linked to their respective school and to the productive features of a region based on the primary sector, and while this section can complete the field of learning, knowledge, research and association with local production, providing equipment and qualifications to graduates for their professional careers, but also contributing substantially to development and supporting the local economy? To date you have avoided answering this question. Also, following the equalization of college degrees with university degrees, with the introduction of the minimum import base, with its failures the government leaves thousands of students and students outside the university and many regional without students. We even have excellent students, with the bases - elastic, especially in special courses, which cannot be introduced into their preference schools, much more so when these changes were implemented in the middle of the pandemic and in the middle of the school year - even that you did not take into account, you probably did not want your reasons - when the students progressed on the basis of data they knew. You are therefore leading them to what you have diligently prepared for private education. I shall refer in brief, since our rapporteur, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos, has been placed in detail at all the meetings. We see an over-concentration of powers in the face of training directors. School advisors and quality supervisors have a limited role to play. The teachers' associations set up by Law 1566/85 are weakened. Decrease democratic dialogue and composition in collective decision-making. The school boards go under the responsibility of the municipalities, where teachers are now a minority. And in the service councils you have succeeded or sought that there should be no elected representatives of teachers. We also do not see the reintroduction of important reform provisions that SYRIZA has previously abolished, such as the full-day programme of schools. You don't bring the matter bank back. There is no provision for the establishment of the National Licensor in high school. You do not go ahead with the certification of foreign languages and computers, while you are reducing hours in various areas, such as finances, despite your declarations that you want education to be linked to economic development. Even the individual provisions of this draft law on evaluation that, unlike your previous posts, provide for further training for teachers, do not, at the same time, prescribe a framework of infrastructure and programme in which training will function as well as its respective evaluation system. There is no description of a training system, nor do regional training centres return, RVCs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the PASOK which established the evaluation, supported it and promoted it. And this was a reformist section in education for the productive role of the teacher. As far as the provisions are concerned, which are included in earlier legislation, we are obviously positive. However, the evaluation must in any case relate to structures and content of education, in addition to objectives that cancel the main objective of qualitative upgrading alone. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I should like to refer to the provisions on church education, where without dialogue, without any serious assessment, two Highest Church Academys, Vellas Ioannina and Thessaloniki are abolished. I am going to refer to Vellas Ioannina, where church high school is abolished, while a two-year school of students of candidate clergy is being set up, a school of impedimentless. It is a arrangement that is actually very downgrading to church education. The Vellas School, with two sections, of the Byzantine Studies and the Byzantine Church of Music and Psychics, closes after a hundred years of operation, with a huge contribution to both church education and general education, and to the society of Epirus, as well as to our homeland. Vellas School is a continuation of the consciousness of the offering of donations and national benefits, by great and distinguished Continentists. It was served by remarkable teachers and teachers and raised hundreds of graduates with particular discrimination in all places and at all levels of science, public administration and the Church. The closure, in particular without any prediction of the continuation and development of such an important structure, is contrary to all the Continents and the wider region. These provisions must be withdrawn and an integrated debate on this issue must be held. We have, ladies and gentlemen, a different view of the government on the content, substance and quality of public education. And that is why, in principle, we cannot agree on a bill that moves in a spirit of regression and service of political and micro-political purposes. But at least make sure this time, although it is not too early, that the schools open up safely. With more rooms, more teachers, more vaccinations, checks and tests, but with public responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u174	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to put forward the latest legislative improvements. I would like to say that, for example, there are two important changes that we have made following the dialogue with the institutions. I am referring, first of all, to the extension of the school board. I am thinking specifically of the Association of Directors, but also of fellow Members, such as Mr Friends, if I'm not mistaken, who said it is important that there should be a greater representation of teachers. That's widening. Of the five members, then, we go to seven with a greater participation of teachers. So we'll have three teachers. That's what's inside of the legislative improvements. In addition, it is a greater clarification of the two teachers participating in the directors' selection boards. They are specifically intended to have extensive pre-service, experience and so on. Mr President, in the Minutes, I am making the specific legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u176	I would also like to say that there are three ministerial amendments which have been tabled for several days. Let me just mention that there are arrangements for extending the housing allowance for students to three universities: the Aegean University, the University of Macedonia and the Democritus University of Thrace. Just like we announced. To say that there is an extension of scholarships to conduct teaching work at universities in postgraduate and doctoral students. Arrangements on changes to the procedures for alternates shall also be included. As we have already said in the House this year, the process goes further on digitisation and provisions for the electronic conclusion of a contract of employment are provided for. All of this in order to further improve the procedure for deputies. There are also procedures under which teachers will not have to produce the same documents every time, as has been done for many years. Adjustment, that is, in this direction. These are the three ministerial amendments in the short term. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u177	To be submitted and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u179	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u180	Minister, in changing the composition of the school board, which will be seven, how many teachers will be?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u181	Three teachers and director four. Therefore, there is a majority in the school, clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u182	Now Mrs Chabika Iatridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start the speech on the bill, noting that no educational process can proceed smoothly unless there is a sufficient number of teachers to support it. That is why they deserve the warmest congratulations to the Minister of Education, Mr. Kerameos, to the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, who found the financial space and the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the appointment of eleven thousand seven hundred teachers. The Government of New Democracy acts in just two years and under unprecedented circumstances with the krone pandemic its commitment to substantial reinforcement and upgrading of education in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are at the end of a long debate on this bill, I do not want to get far and tire you out. As has emerged from the debate, it is clear that there are two different worlds, two different worlds. On the one hand, we have our own line, which is at the centre of developments and substantial progress, and which believes in autonomy, critical thinking, evaluation, strengthening our teachers. On the other hand, there is the view of the Officerial Response covered by a "progression" which is based on promulgating everything to everyone not wanting to change anything, but voting as a government and saying as an opposition. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a modern bill, a bill that meets the challenges of the future. I should like to conclude here with two suggestions to the Minister on the issue of the provision of accommodation for school nurses. It is an issue that concerns many families. There are many school nurses written in the AACC tables for special educational staff posts, but the IP 25 do not accept service when it is in islands and mountainous areas. I would therefore suggest the following. Firstly, the needs of special educational staff should be met by means of a special invitation to place in specific schools for specific children. This way every deputy will declare direct school of preference. Specific aid criteria could also be established for replacements, especially in island and mountain areas. Secondly, if either the procedures with a choice from the AACC table or the special invitations do not thrive, consider the possibility of inviting all those who have graduated from Rhodes' public hospitals or other hospitals. Of course, legislation is needed here to ensure that there are no nurses in the IP 25 from HEI or TEI, then allow graduates of the public IEK to take over the debts of a school nurse. The issue is extremely important, Minister, and particularly concerns the families of small remote islands in the Dodecanese, as well as Rhodes and Kos. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing my speech by stressing that the New Democracy Government is consistently making its election commitments, those on which it was supported by the Greek people. I would also ask you to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Mr. Loyadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. The current draft law is another link to the totalitarian control and manipulation of society through targeted political choices of authoritarianism and commercialisation by abolishing university asylum, the establishment of university police, the deterioration of public vocational education, which effectively promotes youth in private IEK, the equation of the diplomas of private colleges with those of public HEIs, and now by legislating the minimum import base. Nowhere in the world is defined as a minimum import base. Are we asking here as Mera25, will you introduce the minimum import base to private colleges? We call on you to lift the injustice concerning students in the summer schools, some of whom could be introduced into higher education, and you have effectively excluded them by establishing a uniform method of calculating the minimum import base. The evaluation of teachers introduced by the draft law is not in itself a negative concept. But it is based on objective criteria for improving quality. But the problem lies in the interpretation of the concept of evaluation and the way the draft law wants to implement it. Articles 31 and 56 stipulate that non-participation in the evaluation process is a disciplinary misconduct involving sanctions and penalties such as the deprivation of wages, the suspension of wage increases, the deprivation of the right of permanentisation for non-residents, the exclusion of them from the selection procedures of a head of staff. This approach highlights the punishing nature of the draft law while at the same time making up the Trojan Horse of the Government to impose full control on education by controlling persons and situations and depriving any autonomy that the educational process had. And how can the tens of thousands of contracted teachers also render when every year they are with a suitcase in their hand? And by whom should they be evaluated? Every year and by another? And who will assess the assessor? This authoritarianism personally reminds me of his time and we are commanded. This government autocracy has led to the abstention of 90% of school units and there has been no substantial dialogue between the government and the educational community. The section of the draft law on the strengthening of the role of the school unit in Articles 92 to 103 gives the manager overpower by transferring powers from the school club. It is a hierarchical system of one-way, vertical, top-down evaluation with the teacher being treated as a mere application of any administrative orders. This creates bureaucratic superstructures, reduces creativity and devaluates the role of the teacher, but it is a very good professional opportunity to raise various party executives backed up. It's the fragmentation, it divides and reigns, everyone against everyone in all its majesty. Mera25 points out that the system should be a two-way system. And from the top to the bottom, but also vice versa, and above all, evaluate the outcome of education objectively. I am not going to refer to Rule 107 with the seven-member, who is five-member, and now the Minister has informed us that it is seven-membered. We'll say good-bye. But do we consider that all Greece is Athens, the largest municipality, the Municipality of Athens, the family-controlled one? Anyway. As a member of the Committee on Islands and mountainous areas of Parliament, I would like to stress the problems in these remote areas, including the great lack of teachers and the lack of infrastructure. You are only essentially legislated for the large urban centres, and you should support these areas even for formal reasons. Article 99 provides that school units may be financed by donations, sponsorships, inheritances, legacy and other benefits of third parties. As MERA25, we stress that under no circumstances should this revenue be influenced or offset by the regular state grant and that these grants or donations will not be linked to products that will be advertised and circulated in schools. With these sponsorships, multi-speed and flat schools are being created, the elite is being strengthened and school is becoming even more classic. To stress that other resources will find and be able to have the schools of large urban areas and other resources the remote small communities will find. The kind and quality of education that the government is targeting can also be judged by one’s decision to abolish the sociology course from schools, which the President of the British Social Association, Professor Susan Halford, criticised in her letter to the Minister. It says: "We are shocked by your recent decision to end the teaching of sociology in Greek high school since this year. We understand that this has been ratified as a political decision, but that no scientific or pedagogical justification has been given. Sociology focuses on issues of social justice, inequality and change and fosters the concept and knowledge that are an integral part of development, social consciousness and social justice. Sociology can play an important role in updating the next generation for the distribution of wealth and social equality, for relations between races and sex and for how to improve our quality of life, especially health and education through social interventions. As we face the consequences of pandemic, climate change, mass movements, inequality and growing mental illness, Sociology should have a central role in seeking solutions. Your decision to abolish Sociology means that these issues will no longer be placed in the educational system in Greece. We cannot understand how a modern democratic state could follow this path." That is precisely the position we raised as Mera25 with the relevant questions that I put to you on 6 May 2020 and on 18 July 2021 without any reply to this day. Another basic structure of the draft law is the articles on the immediate abolition of the two High Ecclesiastes of Thessaloniki and Ioannina. These are located geographically very close to the Orthodox Churches of the Balkan countries and to Mount Athos. Their merger will take place with the respective Athens and Crete, which you are also abolishing over time. We wonder who the author of these articles is and what he is aiming at. Why should these higher church academies be closed? On 7 June 2021 we asked you a question and we were essentially against this decision. As a Cretan MP, I will mention that the program of priestly studies of the Patriarchal High Academy of Crete between 2006 and 2019 gave three hundred and five degrees. The program "Ecclesiastical Music and Psychics" gave ninety degrees. In other words, it gave four hundred fourteen degrees. Furthermore, the Patriarchal Higher Ecclesiastes Academy of Crete has awarded a degree in ninety-six clergymen from the program "Jerusal Studies" and thirty-six clergy from the program "Ecclesiastical Music and Physics". A total of thirty-two. Priests and spiritualists need very high university level education, continuous upgrade and not abolition. It mentions an international conference of sociologists that society without religion ceases to function and exist as a society. The application of "philosophy", "the same word", "the society", "the confession", spirituality and "the wish" are the concepts of ancient and Greek on the basis of the perceptive concepts of human existence, incorruptible in time, and are an antidote to the rapid progressing mental illnesses. Let me remind you here of this very well-known book: 'Platonas, not prose'. Finally, Mera25's position, as our special buyer Sophia Sakorafa mentioned, is that a body for the planning, implementation and evaluation of changes in education should be an independent authority whose president will be appointed by the House with an increased majority. Apart from experts, representatives of parties, trade unions and even parents will be able to participate. I will close with what we have all learned at school, but here, unfortunately, we do not respect, the clear distinction of powers, because, as time-consumingly happens, the citizen knows that the next government will once again change the law and the 'track-down' will always go on with a victim of the people. Unique deaf persons do and we are always at the same place when others run. And because we have heard again today comments about Yanis Varoufakis, we are always telling you: "Get the 2015 dossier to the House", as the Prime Minister had already made a commitment. But you don't dare do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the years before our adulthood, but also in the coming years, as familymen and parents, we have heard and said many times the phrase: "Look to be educated, to enter the university and the future is in front of you." Immediately after we heard from our parents and urged our children to quickly take their degree to find a good job and have a good career. And yet, despite all the patronage advice we heard or gave later as parents, the truth is that Greece owns a negative first, since we are world champions for unemployed graduates. This is a reality which has stopped shocking us since the degree now looks beautiful in the frame, but unfortunately it is not enough. The educational reform efforts attempted in the years of post-population were tens, but in practice each project resulted in deregulation. The trolley wheels have rarely moved forward in this direction, and in this way forty-seven years of post-multi-population we are still discussing monotonously what kind of education we want. In the years before, words such as "goodness", "perfection", "extroverty" were destroyed by our educational system. They were victims of an obsessed view of subjection to a left-wing logic which since the time of Andreas Papandreou and incarnate populism promised to introduce into universities without exams. The momentum, combined with a retrograde dogma that dominated sections of HEI and TEI almost throughout the country, so that candidates would get at least one paper, no matter whether our educational system was stepping on solid bases. Somehow Greece has the fourth highest percentage of registrations in HEIs among OECD countries, however 30% and more of our students never graduate. Correspondingly, almost 42% of our students have studied for over six years, while according to a recent report by EUROSTAT in 2018 Greece held the last place in all European countries at a graduation rate of 9.17% which is far from the average European level of 24.5%. That was the perception of the things that existed until before and there is no doubt about it. At least so far, because the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis envision and invest in a modern school, which will provide more and better supplies. We want the Greek school to be more essential, more creative, more qualitative, more open, to combine innovation with technology and knowledge, operating as the common destination of thousands of students who dream about the future. In my personal view, ladies and gentlemen, once we have agreed on the country's defence strategy, we should also agree on our country's educational strategy, especially when education is the first line of defence for every nation. Let us not fool ourselves, education is the biggest investment we can make as a country, and I do not exaggerate because I believe that we all agree that the level of education determines not only the present but above all our future. Evidently every reform is judged and assessed in the field of reality. The same is true of the current educational reform, which will be judged in order and in amphitheatres. But let's not hide behind our finger. This time we have the determination to succeed, because it is clear that our society has ceased to stumble on the timeless procrastination that has seen our people. A recent survey published in a Sunday newspaper reveals that in our society there is the critical social group that supports change for the future of our country. According to this measurement, seven out of ten of our 10 compatriots are assembled with the government proposal for the evaluation of teachers, for the establishment of a school limit, for the minimum admission basis at universities, and three out of four - impressive percentages - are in agreement with the use of an entry card in the HEIs. Impressive is the fact that the yes to education reform says 53.4% of SYRIZA voters, 76.6% of the voters of the Change Movement and 34.6% of the voters of the JRC. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is just mature conditions that we now say about moderateism. The Law of the Ministry of Education describes the overall operating logic and general orientation of the educational system that deserves our children. As I explained on Friday in Parliament's Standing Committee on Education, the new school must not be a matter of political feasibility or be treated as such. First of all, it's a national target. The aim of education must be to shape productive and thoughtful personalities, people who think, seek and love knowledge, so our responsibility is to reconnect education to education. The state that does not have the basis of education is a building on the sand, supports Adamantios Koras and I personally agree with him. In this context, therefore, we release the creative power of our schools with three specific moves: Firstly, we have confidence in teachers, enabling them to perform their duties with greater autonomy. In particular, they will choose school books, evaluate pupils in alternative ways and make use of school facilities outside hours, organise educational visits, cooperate with organisations to organise actions. Secondly, we are strengthening the role of director and teachers in the role of responsibility. For us, responsibility does not mean weight and fear, but task and duty. In this context, support bodies shall be established to the Director by moleculosis and consideration in the evaluation file, such as inter-school coordinators, mentors and assistant directors by a recommendation from the Director. The Director will also be able to make use of school facilities for events, conferences and programmes, playing an important role in shaping school life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. Thirdly, we are establishing a framework for increased transparency and accountability. We achieve this by removing powers from central services and transferring them to school level, making the shape of school councils more flexible and functional, but also by establishing diagnostic tests for the effectiveness of the educational system for students in the sixth grade of primary and third grades in language and mathematics courses. As far as the need for a minimum import base is concerned, we are putting an end to the import phenomenon of students in higher education with unacceptablely low scores. We want students who will become graduates and not eternal students who lose their years. We want our youth to choose roads with prospects and not one-way stagnation. I would like to make one comment and close, Mr President, on the arrangements for church education. Implement the structures pursued by the Ministry of Education is correct. But I ask the Minister, at least at the last minute, that the High Church Academy of Thessaloniki continue its autonomous operation. From its inflatable are twenty-six Metropolitans of Macedonia and Thrace, while in recent years, under the enlightened guidance of His Eminence Metropolitan Kitros Katerini and Platamonos Georgios, her graduates have been distinguished for their scientific merits. They are registered in the Academy only through the process of the Greek examinations and participate in the educational programs of priestly and church relics. Therefore, the continuation of the uninterrupted operation of the Highest Church Academy of Thessaloniki is the minimum recognition of its multi-faceted contribution to the Church, society, Thessaloniki, northern Greece in general. Please, Minister, consider this matter very carefully. To sum up, educational reform is the primary chapter of the national recovery plan of Greek society. Through this we guarantee our children dignity and responsibility in their choices, which is particularly important, since they hold the future of our country in their hands. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is looking forward and fighting for the future of the Greeks. What has happened in the past is history. But the future is ahead of us and, most importantly, it must be shaped by those who dare for the better. In front of us, we have a great challenge and the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u188	But finish it up. You've taken three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u189	...the responsibilities and reforms that change Greece very clearly supports the Ministry of Education's bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u190	And we are completing the list of colleagues with the New Democracy MP Mr. Dermenzopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are introducing and discussing an extremely important draft law aimed at upgrading school, strengthening teachers and strengthening and rationalising the educational process. The priority of this bill is the creation of an even better school, a school that adapts to the developments of the time, which ensures more facilities for the present and future of students, a bill opening the doors of the evaluation of teachers in a fair context and gives freedom of teaching, a bill that does not create obstacles but creates opportunities. This draft is made up of three pillars: first, strengthening the autonomy of school units. Secondly, the establishment of a fair and effective evaluation mechanism. Thirdly, strengthening the structures of education. We must, in practice, show that we trust our teachers more. It is the pillar and the foundation of the educational process. So we give them the freedom to organise teaching through the introduction of the free choice of books, to choose the book themselves that they want between a wide range of approved writings. In this way the teacher will be able to develop the evaluative capacity of his students, broaden their horizons, shape the process in order to meet the needs, but also its specific features. As long as some invest in polarization and misinformation, we invest in our teachers. We were committed to five thousand two hundred fifty assignments in 2021, and eventually we proceed to eleven thousand seven hundred appointments of young teachers from September to all schools in our country. And they are the first to be held in general education after twelve years and following the four and a half thousand permanent appointments to the special education that took place last year and demonstrate our direction, our vision of a new school, our vision of a school that adapts to today's reality, and which becomes a school of modern times and tomorrow, a school focusing on education and the student. And we motivate students. We reshape the way of teaching courses, get away from sterile teaching. Students must finally get away from the model of memorization, strengthen their critical thinking, form an independent opinion, be actively involved in shaping and shaping their character. Students will be evaluated as they are today, but not only with tests that are not indicative of the knowledge they have gained, but with a more participatory process like group presentations. So our children must be taught how to think, not what to think, so their presence in the classroom will not be typical. It will be creative, critical thinking will be cultivated with the aim of effectively conquering knowledge and skills. The school is now more friendly to the student. In addition, the role of the Director is strengthened, but also the role of teachers in positions of responsibility with moleculosis and taking into account in the evaluation file. The principal acquires the responsibilities which enable him to serve the autonomous school, and has now to play an important role in shaping school life and support for the manager is therefore established and more facilities are given. Schools will now be financially self-sufficient, with revenues that will enter school funds, without affecting the level of regular funding of school units. So school's remodeled. The second important pillar aims to establish an evaluation mechanism for the work of teachers as a means of improving and strengthening them. This assessment is of a purely improvement and non-punitive nature. The effectiveness of school and educational policy is generally identified significantly by the quality and effectiveness of the teachers who serve it. It goes without saying that no educational system can be improved unless it is evaluated. We must also identify the strengths and weaknesses of teachers, provide them with the training support they need, as well as the improvement and rewarding of their work. The positive assessment shall be taken into account in the selection process in positions of responsibility, while the non-positive assessment shall lead to a training programme. So we give the teacher the opportunity to evolve, to shape his work and how to teach. In addition, this draft law strengthens education structures. Staff positions are established with a purely pedagogical character, training consultants with new responsibilities are increased next to the school units, a thousand new posts of psychologists and social workers are created. Parents will now be able to address these centres and take specific measures to support children fully adapted to their needs. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill promotes students at the highest level and supports teachers for their contribution to society. The state that has no basis for education is building on the sand. We are determined to build a new school with strong foundations. It is society that requires changes rather than a climate of polarisation, personal attacks and old-fashioned games of purpose. Despite what the pandemic has caused us, the New Democracy Government continues to respect its commitments and implement the major reforms that our country needs. In closing, I'll borrow a piece of William Arthur Ward, well known to the educational community, who says: "Teaching is more than distribute knowledge, it's inspiring to change. Learning is more than memorizing data, it is reaching understanding." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u192	We also thank Mr Dermenzopoulou for the consistency in time. Now we're going to the second grades of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We will, however, make an agreement from the outset. I'll give you ten minutes, but I don't want any more time. I think it's enough for everyone's dentology. We are starting with the Vice-President of Parliament on behalf of Mera25, Mrs Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't use all the time you're giving. Besides, we've been through this all these days. The debate on the draft law has been overtaken. We are supposed to be discussing a bill that radically changes the administrative structure of primary and secondary education, radically changes the operation of schools and reforms the framework of church education. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed or rather succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, in a debate in the House on other issues, particularly the problematic and unfair application of the minimum import base. Even the Prime Minister himself did not bear the burden of his intervention on the main issues of the bill. This, as we have already said, is justified because this is the issue that burns thousands of Greek families today, whose efforts and hopes are sacrificed to the altar of unjust and sloppy legislature - I say again, ladies and gentlemen, unfair and sloppy legislation - which is based only on ideas and designs on paper. The government has no real arguments to justify the injustices it vaguely provokes, and I cannot refer to anything attribute. The Minister has repeated on several occasions an argument to cover the anti-social and unfair nature of the minimum import base. So, Mrs. Keramos is bragging a false argument: how many of the people who entered are finally able to obtain a degree. A relatively low percentage, only low, has been reported. They're supposed to want to protect. You will allow me to say mercy with the communication fireworks! Mercy with the deliberate degradation of public speech and political dialogue! Minister, I am sure you know when your argument would be essential and how it might be a real argument. In a state without privileged or other education support structures, it really wants political courage to overthrow those who fail to complete their studies for economic and social reasons. So tell us how many of the percentage you say are the victims of state deficits and have not objectively been able to continue their studies and obtain their degree. Then perhaps we could continue the debate on this basis. Tell us, Minister, what is the percentage of those graduated from schools with a job rehabilitation perspective and how much in those schools where their degree does not offer a job prospects? We do not forget that we are talking about a country which, thanks to the policies of the rival governments and the memoranda, lies with its productive fabric broken up, that is, a country doomed to live in the heavy shadow of unemployment and, in particular, youth unemployment. That is, Minister, the reality that we are living in and cannot be deceived with fine words about supposedly more and well-paid jobs, which will be brought to us as a miracle while in reality you are continuing with degradation. The Greek state condemns sectors of all unemployment and has misused so many qualifications. It comes then to blame the children who are forced to leave their studies after being pressed by the anguish of their survival and professional prospects. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to prevent any possible cheap contrast with a typical example. In a country like Greece, and given its physical structure, does it need higher education in the field of oceanography and marine life sciences or not? We do not have to say that the political system defines the functioning of the Greek economy. So how many jobs does the Greek political system offer in this area to meet the real needs of the country? Let's go for a step down. How far does the famous doctrine of matching studies to market needs? And when, despite the real needs, no jobs are being offered, I understand that you are closing down schools. So based on this doctrine, where we end up. We conclude that, in this government perception, the only really safe schools will be the productive military and police schools, because they only ensure the professional continuity of students. In any event, it is not normal for a State to act unjustifiedly. The country cannot walk towards the future with the governmental logic that says that we will do what we want now and "land fire mixed up". What matters is that we get through what we want and the consequences we will see in the future. What the cost society will pay is not at all concerned with the political system, not at all with your political concern. So that has happened with the minimum import base, and that is the case with the bill you are going to vote on today. It is an authoritarian, bureaucratic construction, with no prospect of long-term implementation. You are completely indifferent to consensus and social and parliamentary matters. It defines you - let me say - an arrogance that is based nowhere but on your political achievements and your ideas. So it is your choice to be on your own in this street. We have no problem with this, except that the heavy consequences of all this is paid and will ultimately be paid by the country and by the Greek society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u194	Thank you to Mrs Sacorafa and to the economy in time. The floor is now given by the Special Rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to make a special reference to the Association of Conservative Antiquities and Higher Education Arts, which is a scientific and professional body representing the maintainers of antiquities and works of graduates in higher education in national and equivalent foreign schools. According to a letter from this club, which we will present in the minutes, on the requirement of graduates of the management of church relics of the highest church academies for the registration of professional rights for the maintenance of antiquities and works of art that are not related to the subject of studies, the following conclusions are drawn: Graduated programs for the management of ecclesiastical relics of the highest church academies cannot be included in the industry of IP antiquities and works of art. In addition, the same graduates may not be allowed to obtain the relevant licence to pursue a profession at the same time as the right to register in the relevant register of conservators held in the department of maintenance of ancient and new monuments. At the same time, they cannot have the right to carry out maintenance work on material cultural goods. The only way for graduates of church relic management programs of the highest church academies to become P.C.s is to attend maintenance courses at a higher education institution of national or foreign that offers a basic degree in maintenance. Graduates of the AEK and AEK programmes can only work as a conservative through the acquisition of a maintenance licence but in no case only on account of the CEK. Also, our coordinating alternates of German language teachers informed us that a few days ago the distribution of posts for permanent appointments took place. Unfortunately, in their PL07 sector, it is only a few fifty three and in primary and secondary education after twelve whole years. It is, as you can see, a shameful figure, rather than mentioning that - as we have been stressed last year - six hundred and twenty-six alternates worked in primary and secondary education last year. Make more appointments because the real needs in this sector and not only for natural persons and others are much more. Below according to Law 4692/2020, Article 1(1) and Ministerial Decision F.779511/DG4/20 number 2539, skill laboratories were piloted in primary and secondary education. According to Law 4692/2020 Article 1(2) the introduction of skill workshops to all school establishments in kindergarten, primary school and high school would be carried out after a report of results and the relevant opinion of the Institute for Education Policy. A new pilot action was also envisaged if the data were insufficient or not to conduct a new pilot action and to reject it. However, there is only the interim monitoring report on 31 August to 30 November 2020 on which the fields, reflection, evaluation of cycles, implementation of skills workshops were vacant, because it would obviously have to be completed after the pilot run was completed. In our question to the EPA, the answer to 17-6-2021 was: With regard to the final assessment of the pilot application of the skills workshops, we inform you that our research is ongoing and will be completed after the end of the teaching year. So without evaluation - and I stress it without evaluation and a report of results from the Institute of Education Policy with Law 4807/2021 Article 52 skill workshops have been introduced into the curriculum and the weekly schedule of all types of compulsory school education establishments in primary and secondary schools. In accordance with Law 4642/2020, Article 2 and the Ministerial Decision F.776108/Decree4/2020 a pilot introduction of the English language was carried out through creative activities in the mandatory breakfast programme of public kindergartens of general education of all types in the school year 2020-2021. With the completion of the pilot action, the Institute for Education Policy should draw up a results report and give an opinion to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the introduction of or not the creative involvement of the pupils of kindergarten with English in all kinds of schools or otherwise on the conduct of a new pilot action. However, there is only an up-to-date information for stakeholders on the "Activities in English" programme in kindergartens. In our question to the EPP, we did not receive a reply. In other words, without a formal and final assessment, the ‘Activities in English’ programme at the kindergarten and subsequently without the relevant opinion report as provided for by the Act and the respective Ministerial Decision with No 4807/2021, the programme is introduced into the compulsory programme of the country's kindergartens. Finally, according to an article by His Eminence Metropolitan Citrus, Katerini and Platamonos Georgios President of the Highest Church of Thessaloniki, which we will also present in the Minutes, it is stated that during the fifteen-year operation of the AEATH five hundred priests who are serving in the church of Greece and in the parable Orthodox Churches. Among graduates are the Metropolitan Elassonas Chariton and Trikkis Chrysostomos and Bishops of Dafnosia Smaragados (Istanbul) Melitios Maximos (France) Pataron Athenagoras (Canada), Myerini Athenagoras (Colombia). We say that because you said there is little absorption. It also states that it is the only highest church academy that is geographically close to the homonymous churches of the Balkan countries and to Mount Athos, which runs with students as monks and managers of church relics. Throughout the world, the Orthodox Church is struggling to create schools of priestly secondary and higher education recognised by the public and spiritually supervised by the church. The abolition of a higher church academy is a blow to church education with adverse consequences for the church ministry. We in the Greek Solution said it, we say it, and we still say that our education needs radical restructuring, but while ensuring the continuity of our Hellenism and Orthodoxy. Because those two go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u196	And we thank Mrs Asimakopoulou. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is time for conclusions after the three-day meeting and the first conclusion that comes out of this debate is that for the upcoming four-five weeks, that is, the opening of schools very few things have been heard here in this Chamber. But for some time now, Minister, teachers, parents, students are asking you to take measures, immediately measures, to open schools safely in September, with diluted sections and therefore with more rooms, with the necessary teachers, those who need and those who need, with all the staff for cleanliness, frequency and tactics, and of course with free EGE tests periodically and regularly. We've been asking you for days. And what are you doing? Did you bring an amendment a moment ago, and even to a bill completely irrelevant, to the register bill as if it had not been discussed for so many days, so many weeks, a draft law with two hundred and twenty articles - in the register you took the amendment - with which you are doing it? Are you going to load all the health responsibility for the safe operation of schools to whom? Teachers. To hide yours, I mean your governmental, criminal responsibilities, you're repository of individual responsibility. Indeed, it is characteristic that you have such long-term planning that you bring to the schools three alternates. Such a long-term policy! And you're not telling me, Minister, from their pocket will teachers charge these molecular tests? Because molecular tests are anticipating. Will it be over and over again? And since you know well, I think you're there in the government that coronary is stuck, you know, and your vaccinated - Minister is stuck - so leave the boars. Leave them with the teachers. Be serious, take your responsibilities. Stop scaring and terrorizing teachers because they are the ones who lifted all the weight of the teaching relationship with the children in the months of quarantine when you shared them with plaque plaque plaque plaque and masks - balloons. So take your responsibilities. Dilute school classes and finally - that is, mercy! - Organize regular, periodic tests from ETA in schools. Leave that self-test comedy. Being from the ETA, free and regular. Every week if it takes? Every week. This is the role of the government and the EGE. And of course, strengthen that public health system as well. Because, as you can see, this fourth wave is not funny at all. We want to tell you one more thing, Minister. Because if anything else the Ministry of Education should have a little base, you committed to OAS students that the arrangements will not apply this year. You have been tied up and brought in a general amendment. And now you're telling them it won't be their level 4 degree, but it'll be level 3. Don't make fun of them. Fear her their anger. Don't make fun of them! I do not have much to say about the amendments. In particular, it is the well-known practice that all governments have in the amendments to stir bitter, sour and sweet all together and then go to vote. In Amendment No 1007 we would very much like to vote on it and we would vote on it if it were just the housing allowance for students or the allowance for anestheticists, but you put it with a whole lot of other negative ones, and of course we cannot vote on it. Let's go to the bill now. "We have the most comprehensive education system." "We are one of the last in the PISA contests." These are the basic arguments of the government, that is what we now hear three days. The Prime Minister has even come from this House's Step to declare independence, please, of the schools, he says. And Mrs. Minister is very close to deciding that decentralised, autonomous school has, he says, and better - if you didn't know - educational results. First on the independence, decentralisation and autonomy of school. Well, let's tell you openly and clearly: Drive with your laws and your politics schools on the beggar to work. And now there is, and now it's done, parents give a bunch of money from their pockets to run schools, because they love their children, and that's exactly what you're taking advantage of. But you now take this off, institutionalize it, encourage it, promote it. So, in the market bazaar there you send all the schools - come on, what are all the schools going to do? Depending on where they are, of course, in order to find resources. But as you all know and know, there are no unselfish donors, and of course donations are always done with unloved. The second consequence of this autonomy and decentralisation is the creation of multi-speed schools and classes, based on the socio-tax origin of their students. And that's what is being strengthened, that's exactly what goes deep, that's exactly what's being institutionalized with the corresponding books, with the so-called multiple book. Depending on the students to whom this multiple book is addressed, it will also be different. Others will be the books, as we said, in St. Barbara and Peristeri and others in Psychics and Kifisia. The book multiple, the book different, but the single-secret bank, Minister. Single and pan-Hellenic exams. What's good? And mostly what classics, huh? I'm fine! Let's see now these best results that this self-contained and decentralized school has. Who really counts these results? Let's see the PISA test. No relationship with the city of Italy, of course. The PISA test, however, you know, counts the skills, those substitutes of knowledge, for which skills burns the capital. That's why he's put into these skills and even from kindergarten, if you have your God, youth entrepreneurship. Yes, yes, in kindergarten children will be taught except for English and youth entrepreneurship. Should we say first grade, so we can agree? It does not, therefore, measure this PISA test, nor does knowledge, education, nor cultivation. She's not even interested in why she's not interested in this chapter. And so, let's see some examples from the decentralized and autonomous school in the United States, which is being evaluated, please and evaluated by its learning results. Teachers tell their students to copy to get good grades in their evaluation. In Germany, at the decentralized school, it sounds like a joke to ask a working family at which university will she send her children. In England, the metropolis of autonomy and evaluation, functional illiteracy breaks bones in the poor, in the working people's districts. As for Finland, this great school love of SYRIZA - probably mainly of SYRIZA - with its decentralized school there we are talking about the school of NOKIA literally. There are, you know, schools with very strong donors operating with full time and other poor schools operating for a maximum of sixteen hours and several of them, two and a half thousand have been closed. Conclusion? Many, too, are school models circulating in the pool of urban education policy. But all these models, the Anglo-Saxon model, the Finnish model, all of these belong to the capital complex, the wardrobe of the major business groups. That's where you're all shopping. That is what we are saying - and I am closing down, Mr President, in less than a minute - but we are not taking so many days. On the contrary, it is the poverty of the political word of the New Democracy, which leads Members of the New Democracy, such as Ms Papakostas from Trikala, instead of responding to the JRC's substantiated criticism of the JRC, to resort once again, unfortunately, to it - it had also done so in the Hatzidakis abortion - to bankrupt and from the past anti-KRC misery. Does Mrs Papakostas claim the role of a new quidist? We don't know that. But it is good for her to learn from the past and to see what the conclusion of these standards was if she has.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u198	Close, so we can keep up with the deal we've made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u199	I'll be in less than a minute. Your bill is a serious blow, undermines, cancels the cultural rights of children of popular families and families. Behind this bill, asked by Mr. Kastanides, there is neither the unspeakable memory of Exarchopoulos nor Cristidis. The technocrat's dry soul lies the class seal of the OECD and the European Union. The people have understood that. He's already out there demonstrating and as of September 1st this bill will send it out in the school basket of unusables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u200	The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos, with the request to comply with the 10-minute agreement, which is too long and has never been given to secondary dates in a bill. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr Minister, in my prology and in the meetings of committees that have preceded the proposals of the PASOK, the Change Movement, proposals that ensure effective administration and supervision in education, as well as the selection of executives and, of course, the implementation of evaluation without punishment. In particular, I would like to point out that the measurement of the teaching service of school advisors, the responsible environmental education, health education and culture centres is a flagrant injustice towards these officials, and even a job overthrowing after thirty-six years. We waited, Minister, justice. However, we did not see it. You brought a legislative improvement for the selection of executives, Article 37. You have improved, even on the basis of our proposal. But that's not what we asked. You have improved your original proposal. But that is not what we have asked, and that is what we have proposed you to accept. I should also like to remind you here of a regulation - I mentioned earlier - concerning the SGPs, for school advisors. We asked you to give them justice. It also concerns an agency which was established under Mr Gavroglou's office. We asked you to change it, despite the fact that you, together with us, had denounced it. You didn't. At the same time, changes in the composition of the school board and the undermining of the collectiveity of the school unit, as well as the competence of the school club, are provisions, ladies and gentlemen, which do not promote the autonomy of the school unit. On the contrary, they will create multiple problems. Madam Minister, we have waited for you to re-establish the U.S.S.S.S.R. We have waited for you to re-establish the thirteen regional training centres. You didn't do it. On the other hand, we're talking about training. Look at them. Now, in our assessment, our position, ladies and gentlemen, is clear. We are in favour of evaluation. Moreover, evaluation in education is considered necessary and promotes quality assessment and harmonisation with modern educational data. We PASOK, the Change Movement say "yes" to supervision, guidance, training, evaluation, but with this hierarchy. And with this hierarchy "supervisory, training and evaluation" we also qualify for our position. However, as I have stressed earlier, evaluation should not take a punishing dimension to the teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be supportive, feedback and education for teachers. You did bring a descriptive evaluation for teachers and arithmetic for executives. We call 'yes'. And we said 'yes', even though we do not agree with the provisions at all, and even though we voted in favour of the provisions which we did not actually agree. In other words, you have brought an evaluation which is not sufficient. Madam Minister, the provision in Article 56 for penalties and for the exclusion of eight years from the post of directors for teachers who will not participate in the evaluation is exhaustive and unexplainedly punishable, is disproportionate to the very concept of evaluation. Why are you doing this? I'm asking you. Tell me why you're doing it. So you want an evaluation to be of a punishing nature, to be of an extermination? Because it does not serve the ratio of purpose, where you, I believe, have to respond. You should, Minister, see this article again. However, the core of the article prejudges training rather than punishment. Now, with regard to higher education, I should first like to mention Article 185. The Senate's opinion on changes to university departments must be in agreement. Not just an opinion, Minister. Any change in higher education cannot be interpreted as meaning that universities concerned. It must be done with respect to the independent authorities and, in particular, to the NEAFC today, naturally in consultation with local communities and to be part of a long-term planning, naturally based on objective criteria. Universities, ladies and gentlemen, must be decentralised and synergy must be imposed with both Greek and foreign universities. However, policies must not be taken to circumvent independent principles. Remind me here on Gabroglou: Birthday of 2019. The Department of Culture and New Arts of Agrinio, which belongs to Patras, is certified. Eighteen LPIS members in the department. Professional rights. Certified by the IPO. We're talking about Article 16. Professional rights, postgraduate program, doctoral in progress, a thousand graduates, five hundred students. And yet, all this in the candlestick. How? A political decision. Mr Gavroglou decided with a political decision to close a section of the University of Patras based in Agrini. So, in other words, we're saying we're out and we're on the "track, we're dead." Madam Minister, you have spoken of political decisions, that you do not prejudge them and that you do not embrace them, with the same decision of Mr Gavroglou, with the Gavroglou project, a section of Patras has been established. With a political decision, however, Minister, you closed it, while the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies did not re-establish it. Two yards and two weights. The conclusions of yours. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had an extensive debate these days on the minimum import base. Thousands of candidates are left out of higher education. We told you not to apply this year at all because of the pandemic, that there should be no double standards for students. The minimum import basis at least shall not apply to schools and therefore to departments. We didn't hear anything. We have seen practices that are inappropriate in a modern country. Indicative of the bias - I would say - of the decisions on education are the continuous changes in the timetables. Let me remind you that a few days ago we celebrated the anniversary of the restoration of democracy, and yet the course of Citizens and Democracy in high school, that is, when students are entitled to vote, has been abolished. Here too, your conclusions. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the amendments tabled by the Change Movement. We are in the midst of a pandemic, which has brought about a total overthrow in our lives, in the economy, in society, in the planning of families. The most important is the loss of our fellow humans. In fact, minor students were faced with the loss of one or both parents due to COVID -19. They are therefore called upon to manage the loss of their own people, either one or both of their parents, their mourning, but also the need to continue their studies and to ensure a living. We have proposed, Minister, an amendment which we have tabled, that those students who have been admitted to higher education should receive applications for an exceptional grant, of course, equal to the institutional duration of their studies. It is the least, Minister, that the state, a welfare state, can do: a scholarship to the excellent of the IKH, of course, exceptionally because of the pandemic, due to the losses these children are being asked to face today. In fact, I would say here, Minister, that this exceptional grant does not take the form or the view of financial aid, because that is considered to be begging. Madam Minister, we have called for the restoration of injustice for the successors of the 2008 competition. They are teachers received from the appointments, and their colleagues were appointed at a lower score. Here, it should be stressed that the state at last has to comply with the case-law of the Council of State. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the issues of church education are concerned, we talked to you and proposed the establishment of a foreignlanguage department at the Patriarchal Academy of Crete, a department that will attract students from around the world, thus upgrading the church academy of Crete. Finally, we tabled an amendment to harmonise the laws on the selection of Quaestors at the IAEA and at the IAEA, i.e. at the highest military training institutions, as well as to guarantee the professional rights, the engineering graduates of the Icaron School. They are engineers, Minister, who have received appropriate academic training, but they do not recognize their professional rights, such as their other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u202	Finish, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u203	This is because the Icarus School has not been included in the list of schools where engineers graduate. There should therefore be legislation. Madam Minister, even now, at the last minute I invite you to accept our proposals. We voted against and said 'no' at the beginning of the bill. After all, both in the committees and in the first place and in the second reading, and in my speech yesterday in plenary I voted against and said 'no' at the core of the bill. We are, however, voting for church education, as well as teachers' evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u204	And we thank Mr. Constantopoulos. The rapporteur for SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Nikos Friends, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. In principle, the pandemic or better, in principle, the pandemic. We live it and see the wave coming against us. We hear nothing from the government about how to prepare for the opening of schools that have to be opened this year. It's enough the record of the world we have for closed schools in Greece. This year, they have to open universities and schools, all of it. In what way? We're not listening to anything. With vaccines, of course, there should be a strong recommendation, universal vaccination, with persuading me, not by authoritarian measures and with molecular tests, but of course, to pay for them by the state and to be carried out by EGE at large school and university units. Unfortunately, if there is a provision on the issue of schools and of COVID, there is an unrelated bill, not the bill we are discussing today, on the register. This is ironic and at the same time, a bad law-making practice. She says the Minister said: "But we were not ready. We did not want to bring any later amendments here." Why weren't you ready? Didn't you see the wave coming for a week? No, you went to hide these options in an unrelated bill, again opaque, again in the summer, so nobody would know anything, not the educational bill. We need health shields. We need to implement the expert protocol that was not implemented last year to dilute children in each section. Last year you legally raised the children in every department, unfortunately. We need - and this is important - restructuring and reducing matter. We can't with two years lost practically for the children to go and move on like this. What has the EPA done? We don't know anything yet. We need the issue bank and other examination arrangements that make children's lives difficult this year. You know, experts say we in children have increased various psychosocial pressures, depression, anxiety, etc. We need a school that focuses on classroom, the relationship between the child and the teacher, the relationship between the child and the child. That is where we need to place emphasis on the examinations and the extermination of competition. Unfortunately, all these are foreign words for you. It's not about the school you've got in mind. That's what the bill looks like. We call for a debate to be held here in Parliament's Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media on the openness of schools. What does the government say? What do institutions say?’ now in August. We are prepared and closed to have this debate. We have also tabled an amendment, in addition to the abolition of the theme bank for this year, which concerns the children who have died in the pandemic, to be able to enter as supernumbers, based on their molecules in the examinations and universities. It's a basic social concept and justice. Secondly, compensation for education is also very serious. It needs the EPA to bring a program to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislation before us is a piece of legislation that supports it, of all the social actors only one: the owners of private schools. We are legislating on public education and the government has against it all the teachers, not only the bodies of the organized - OLEME, ILO and OELE - but the teachers who have voted three times against the government on specific issues that some now come to the bill. The only ones who vote'super' stable and say that they have opened the way for these arrangements are schoolchildren in private schools. Congratulations, then! It would be a mistake to say that you are only being congratulated by schoolgirls. Because, here, we were witnessing a process where each of the New Democracy colleagues who spoke came down from the Stephane went down, you continued, you congratulate yourself and each other, that is, something like courageous exercises. Because you need the courage, Minister. Sixty thousand children online and parents are asking for you to resign because you are responsible - not personally, the government through you, to be fair - for a policy that cuts thousands of children and sends them out of universities. Look, we had so much conversation here. We didn't hear a number from you. How many people are going to enter the universities this year? You said two months ago that you should go in - so many seats - seventy thousand. How many people will finally get in? Because, as far as I can see, the number is big. At least twenty thousand kids won't come in, that means we're going to the fifty-seven thousand, it seems. Are you confusing it? Now, we need an answer. Do you deny that they're going to get under sixty thousand kids this year? Do you deny that there will be no vacancy left in the universities? What we want from the government, responsible position, not words in the air and congratulations. Look, in this draft law, with your policy on the minimum basis, the following is achieved: Firstly, Greece should be removed from the European Union. That's a great accomplishment, and you can do it! Why? Because the European Union, and by your vote - you have not said anything else - aims at 2030 the percentage of graduates from twenty-five to thirty-four years old to be 45%. Today in Greece it's 42%. Based on the minimum base measures, it will be reduced to 42% by 2030. All over Europe, it will go up, it will go 45%, Greece will be reduced. Good for you! Well, congratulations. You also told us that he graduated 9% of students. False and misleading. If you calculate how many people are written in the registers in the last 50 years, even 9%. But if you calculate how many people enter each year and how many of them come out, not as Mr. Syrgygos did earlier, so many people enter '78, so many of them come out in '83, they themselves, the same batch, there the official figures say that Greece is close to the European average. By 2017 it was even more than that, it had 78% of graduates. Now it's fallen, it's 63% and there's an explanation, which is about the poor financial situation, the difficulty of children within the memoranda to go ahead. But I also stress the way universities operate in our country, which does not allow children, if they want to change school, to go ahead with this change without imposing new introductory examinations. Look, the Bank of Greece is indeed talking about 4.7% school leak in the ages of eighteen to twenty-four. Yes, sir. Do you know how much it is in Europe? That is the main issue. It's 11%. So, in Greece we're better off. With the measures that you now take, with the 'cutters' and the 3rd high school, which children send outside the PES, you send them to the minor uninsured and uninsured work, and with the high school issue bank, this will decrease, the school leak will increase. It'll grow. Note it. This is your policy: children outside education. Look, Mr. Mitsotakis has had the courage to say that this choice of cutting thousands of children from the universities has a political cost. It's none of my business if it's political, pay it. It's about social costs. I repeat: we want a straightforward answer. How many kids are cut off this year compared to last year? How many vacancies will be left from the seventy-seven thousand that you, unfortunately, said hypocritically, have you announced two months ago that they will be the incumbents of the universities? How many stay outside? How many vacancies? And how many vacancies means a global event, an originality worldwide. There are no vacant posts in universities in any part of the world. The bill we are discussing has a key aspect. This side is the narrowing of rights that, through struggles and political choices, our people have conquered after the relocation. You're talking about autonomy. The autonomy you have in your mind is essentially the relinquishment of the state by its responsibility for funding and strengthening schools. That's it. You're talking about autonomy, which means intimidation of teachers. You talk about autonomy, which means many kinds and categories of schools, good, bad and so on. That's not autonomy. That's worse than that. You all understand that it's a dissolution of public education. But autonomy means decentralisation with democracy. When you dismantle all the teachers and treat the director and bring back the inspectors, there's no democracy. That's not a democracy. When you appoint an interim hierarchical mechanism, a bureaucratic mechanism appointed by the Minister, that's not a democracy, nor autonomy is that. So let words have their real meaning. Minister, in Article 185 you brought for the universities, you give a foretaste of what autonomy means. You remove from the Senate the power to have an assent - you say simply to have, in other words to our old shoes, that is - the question of the restructuring of universities, parts, and so on, and - most importantly - the subject of cognitive objects. In other words, the Minister, the Minister, will decide what the cognitive objects are at each school without listening to what the senate says. Is that autonomy? He points out that there is unconstitutionalism in this matter and the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I did not see you treat it with any amendments. I am sorry, but you have no understanding of autonomy, you are aware of full control, even of what will be taught in universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u206	Finish, Mr. Philly, so we can be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u207	I'll finish. We shall therefore be tabling two roll-call votes in addition to the general vote. The first relates to Article 185. I mentioned it earlier. I would like to see those colleagues who are academics who will face fellow academics in the universities with this shameful amendment. It is a dream of this amendment. The second relates to Article 56, which is the punishing assessment. I shall conclude, Mr President. We in this House have put forward proposals for our own criticism. The proposals were about the important task of the government, which we did not have time to complete, but we left things that you unleashed. We left the two-year pre-school treatment. You still haven't implemented it. You had voted against it then here in the House. We left the new type full-day primary school. And you voted against this and said you would change it. Fortunately, you haven't touched it yet. We left high school and high school, not inquiries. Unfortunately, you're reconverting them to examination centers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Philly, close up. Now we're talking about the bill, we're not talking about what you left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u209	...the new PSAA authority, the two-year technical education programs at universities and appointments without the decision of the SYRIZA Government on the appointments "one leaves - one is appointed". If the New Democracy line passed, five leave to appoint one. Now, as much as you celebrated, you would have appointed only three thousand and not fifteen thousand teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u211	I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against the bill from positions of democratic opposition and equality and quality schools. We are not in favour of manicure. We do not believe that all schools in existent capitalism can be rejected and that we can look for some schools in an unexistent socialism, alas, to speak a little seriously between us. There are many kinds - I stress - models of education. There is a rich pedagogical philosophy and perception. We don't give all this to the police, as it's called. All of these are the conquests of the workers, the young children, the history, and to a large extent - to a significant extent - of the Greek education system, despite its crisis. But the crisis is always an element that must trigger us to improve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u212	Don't open any more topics, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u214	We will close the list of seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, George Kotsos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank both the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group and the Minister for Cooperation in this regard - I felt that we would have an ideological controversy and also a synthesis of opinions within Parliament. That we will cross-check our political swords on ideas, thoughts, positions above all and proposals on how we can further upgrade the educational system in our country. Instead, what did we see? A bill coming from the government was consistent, accurate. With full clarity it describes the positions of the New Democracy, our party, positions that are fully in line with our election announcements, which have the full support of society, which are submitted with this bill. On the other hand, from the point of view of Officer Opposition, denial, complaints, fearful tendencies, non-existence of proposals and personal attacks. Of course, it's understandable. When you have passed the suffering of the mylestone of power management, where your ideas have been judged, the idols, the ideological, the obsessional ideas, and you have been forced during the exercise of power to turn not 360 degrees but 180 degrees and have been forced as a viewer to political reality and to bow to it, it is very difficult after you have developed and deposited a political account. 'Cause obviously, it runs counter to what you did when you were a government. A characteristic example and monumental of course, the colleges where by signature you were given the right to be appointed. Irrespective of what you revised and thought you returned to political practice. And what else did I see? Immortal, misguided, personal attacks on the face of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u216	Again. You have given them from morning to all the sites. Same lies. Mercy now. You do it systematically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u217	When you calm down, I will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Skourletis, no one interrupted you. Please don't interrupt. They all sounded respectfully.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u219	Respect must be mutual, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u220	Listen, Mr. Skourlet. You can't determine what everyone's gonna say. Me neither. Each politician is responsible and expressed in his own way. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u221	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u222	Poverty of arguments, poverty of political proposals and positions that have resulted in personal attacks. I have to recognise the clear political position of the JRC, with which, obviously, I disagree, but by withdrawing what Voltaire said: 'I would also give my life' - something you do not - 'to have the right to say what he believes'. And what are you doing? You're even shouting right now. Even now you cannot admit the different viewpoint. Madam Secretary, all this is a credit and a merchandise for you. Well, it'd be a problem if you were riding in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u223	Don't talk about Voltaire. Voltaire's home too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Skourlet, why such a turbulence? Please. No one else was interrupted. We don't all agree with everything. But we're not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u225	You should have wondered if you'd gone unnoticed. If you were odourless and flawless. However, political positions, in particular, promoted political positions, backwardness, preservatives, inertia, and confrontation. And that's what happened here. You stirred ponding waters that have long been mischarging in educational reality. Evidently some had stayed with the feeling that they could still fish in blurred waters. They don't care about the oxygen we're going to give to both the school and the educational process. The Prime Minister acknowledged that the Ministry of Education opened up difficult dossiers in the educational process. Whether this is called asylum, whether this is called a minimum import base, or a sacred cow of evaluation. And obviously when you open up these difficult files, you find your way toward you and your reactions. They're throwing us? Oh, no. Why? Because we have the boldness and courage to make developments and to open roads to society and not to be behind society. We're fronted, and that means we're taking over, and whatever the cost that means. In fact, the Prime Minister had the presence to say that any small details needed to correct "here we are to correct these difficulties". It is political instability, political braveness to do so. Of course, we lived in Parliament's Chamber and in its letter policy. All colleagues of the Officerial Vice-Presidents had in their pockets and a letter by tooling his disciples probably didn't get through where they wanted to go. In fact, the Chief of Officer's Representation said "the priority for us is the autocracy of knowledge". Do you know many of the popular layers that choose schools, ladies and gentlemen, in the dominant direction of the autism of knowledge? Or is the sovereign that through a proper choice they'll have better luck in the future? Does it bother you that schools that have immediate professional rehabilitation, such as military and police officers, have their bases gone up? You blame the Minister for serving the colleges you tolerated and legalized. Let me ask you something. Have you heard anything about Bulgaria, about Cyprus, about thousands of Greek students leaving every year thanks to your obsessions, your own ideas that you have rejected and avoided and restored our country to political reality and the educational reality that applies throughout the world with private universities? Will you apologise to all these thousands of Greek students today who are in Bulgaria? Imagine, Greece, the country of culture, spirit and letters sends its children to study in Bulgaria or Cyprus. You have a responsibility for this. Will you apologise to the parents, to the children, to our economy? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In Cyprus private universities reach about 7% of GDP. They contribute to GDP of about 7%. Near tourism. And you deprived this from both the country and the children and the parents. May I read to you about your day what the student news was written about? In 2016: “thousands of Greek students leave each year for study at the educational institutions abroad. Greek champion in Europe. I've got a table on the basis of the UNESCO data showing this evidence. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[Mr George Kotsos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have a responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u226	Now how many people are going to go? Now what's going on. You're still kicking them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u227	They're going to college now in your opinion. The minimum basis that you so much tried to use opposition is nothing but the average of what our children wrote this year, in the midst of a pandemic, as you say. The average. Didn't the pandemic happen to all children? Even those who wrote well or wrote worse. Why so paradoxical? So much work? So much need you to create a political account looking for such excuses? But I see you say too much 'yes' but fearfully. ‘Yes’ to the evaluation, but what assessment? You never told us. The one you dismantled with n. 4547? It abuses you or you are trying to create a sense when measuring the number of graduates in relation to existing students and you say: "But they are eternal." So you join the logic behind a previous bill by the Minister of Education for a specific student life limit. You do not have the courage and freeness to say it, and now it is the eternal students who are measured in this way. Autonomous school. Yes, verbally, but how? In particular, we did not hear a specific position, nor did we hear the decentralisation of the procedures of the schools which serves and promote the draft law that we are discussing today and which we are voting on. Of course, I must acknowledge that you are finally coming to the Orthodox road and supporting church education. It's a step. Congratulations. You are defenders of church education and this is a step, to recognise orthodoxy, the Church of Christ and its contribution to our country's cultural acquis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u228	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u229	Please. The speaker expresses his opinion. Why are you protesting, Mr. Michaelides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u230	I'm here to be useful and not pleasant to some people. If some think they are affected, they obviously have to look for themselves. Appointments. We really have been inconsistent. We announced at the beginning of the year five thousand two hundred fifty, eleven thousand seven hundred finally. Hot congratulations, Minister, warm congratulations to the Prime Minister who, in a very difficult time, found the financial area to support the sensitive area of education, taking too many teachers and thus strengthening the educational process. Recently four thousand five hundred of the special treatment were recruited a year ago, eight hundred school advisors to be close to the school and close to the teachers to support them and a thousand psychologists and social workers to stand by the sensitive teams of teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u231	Please conclude, Mr Colleague, despite the fact that you have interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u232	Finally, I want to tell you this. We gave you the hand to build tomorrow's school together. You didn't want it or you probably can't. But at least don't stop us from doing it. Madam Minister, congratulations. I support with all my powers and obviously I am voting in favour of the draft law that we are debating today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Mr Kerameos, to close this three-day and multi-day debate, I would like to say to everyone that all political leaders spoke in a comfortable manner in the three-day process, and all the Members of Parliament, the rapporteurs and the special speakers, both in their prototype and in their dentistry, have also spoken more than a hundred and twenty fellow Members. In order to close the three-day debate, the Minister of Education, Mr Kerameos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members, the institutions, for an extensive debate on the bill, but also beyond the bill, on important issues of education. These two years are one of the wider discussions that have taken place in recent decades in the field of education. We had a four-day debate in committee, a three-day debate in plenary, together with the Heads of State or Government, Mr President, only spoke forty speakers in plenary. I regard this as a wealth for our democracy. And this was followed up by extensive discussions with the educational community by living, online through the special dialogue platform we have established. I would also like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Makri, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Syrigos, the Secretary-General, Mr Koptsis, the Secretary-General, and all our partners for the very hard work in order for this bill to be drawn up, to be processed and to arrive here before the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to you about the ten truths that emerge through this extensive debate in this House. Really first: for autonomy. We're clear, Mr. Philly. We want decentralisation. We believe that it is not normal for the Greek Parliament to decide whether the tests at school will be 15 minutes. Do we know better than the teachers if they have to be 15 minutes or ten minutes? So we want decentralisation. We transfer responsibilities from Parliament, from the Ministry, from the Institute of Education Policy for the benefit of teachers, school units, managers. We decentralize the system. We think it is wrong to approve everything by the Secretary-General of the Ministry. It's not personal, Mr. Cutting, obviously. We consider the wrong policy, however, that the Secretary-General approves every practical exercise, every approval, everything. Why? Let us finally give our teachers the space they need to create. In your day, gentlemen of SYRIZA, everything was central, everything in the Minister, everything in the Secretary-General. So my question is clear: do you want or do you want to be decentralised? Do you think the Greek Parliament, the three hundred MPs, are better acquainted with the teacher as to how the test will be carried out? I would like to say that I am not presenting it as a Member of the European Parliament. I think our teachers know better than all of us about how to manage and evaluate students. I stress here that in the direction of autonomy we have improved the regulation on school boards. We have improved it, and I must acknowledge it, on a proposal from Mr Friends and Bodies, such as the Association of Directors, in order that there will be a greater representation of teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u235	I didn't propose.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u236	You didn't propose. Okay. First truth, then, about autonomy. Second truth about evaluation: First of all here SYRIZA in the note that has been distributed to all Members of Parliament says: "Training is punishable, because it is the consequence of evaluation and that it is the only training that is being done". It's not true. The reality is that there are horizontal training in the days of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the first time after many years. At the moment we are talking about horizontal training for skill workshops. There was a horizontal training for over eighty thousand teachers in digital tools. Therefore, training coming from and linked to evaluation is additional training for teachers in need of improvement. The JRC has said about the evaluation that it is the suffocating control of teachers. Mr. Delis, with all due respect to your face and you're very sympathetic to me, how far back should we go? All over Europe, in all countries, what we are discussing is acquired is self-evident. There is no system that can be improved if it is not evaluated first for it to be good, if it is bad and where it can be improved. It's all over Europe. Mr. Varoufakis said the evaluation is designed to destroy values. I don't know what values he was referring to. Mrs Sakova referred to one-faced evaluation bodies. Mrs. Sacorafa, no. It is an observation that has been made to us by teachers. Teachers on many visits to our schools have said that they consider it very important not to be an evaluator and we have listened to it, so we have predicted three evaluators, listening precisely to this concern of teachers. Mr. Gregoriadis said that there must be an evaluation underneath it, by existing ones. It is also intended for evaluation executives from existing ones. However, I ask what SYRIZA's position for evaluation is in the end? We tabled our own proposal. What's the reality? I am afraid SYRIZA's colleagues do not want an assessment. They do not want valuation and improvement, they do not want discrimination. They all want to be equal and similar, which is why they abolished the evaluation, which is why they do not want to have a pan-Hellenic examination. Mrs Anagnastopoulou came here and said two - three times: 'Why did the pan-Hellenics become this year, while in other countries they were postponed?' Is that possible? We are proud that the pan-Hellenic examinations were carried out and that they were done thanks to our students, our teachers, training managers, the officials of the Ministry under very difficult conditions. It is a real conquest of the educational community that we have managed to do and have in these difficult conditions pan-Hellenic tests for our children. It had come out some time ago, SYRIZA’s youth and said to abolish the pan-Hellenic, that is, the levelling, the people as learnt as they can to manipulate. In all of this, ladies and gentlemen, we are the ones who have a firm 'no', a high and powerful 'yes' in evaluation, 'yes' in growth, 'yes' in diversity, 'yes' in rewarding effort and yes, the best one, will go further ahead. Really third for support structures. There was a lot of talk about why we predicted that school advisors would be at the education level. The answer is very simple. We want them closer to school. We consider it very important that these executives be closer to the school's physical unit, teachers, managers, students. That is why we predicted it to be at the level of training. We have also heard the proposals on the directors' selection boards, on greater clarification about teachers to participate and have a more extensive service. We already anticipated this in legislative improvements. We also predicted that the councils were not chosen by the Minister to be chosen by the relevant secretary. Another important step. We have also heard comments from Mrs Sakova in this regard on the mobilisation of an EIC responsible service as a tutorial. We predicted that, Mrs. Sacorafa. I have an answer to Mrs Asmakopoulou because the term 'institutional education' has been chosen. The reason is specific, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. I have studied very much what you have raised, whether we should follow the term 'inclusive' or 'inclusive'. The reason is that, in laws of the State, this condition is already laid down in the most official way. The term is also used in the name of public services. For example, there is a Department of Educational Innovation and Integration Education. Similarly, there are many initiatives, training actions, all termed "institutional". In any case, we will study this and we will be happy to discuss it together, if you want, further. Really fourth: two-year-old kindergarten. He said Mr. Friends had actually done it. What's the reality? In July 2019, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis was elected, we arrive at the Ministry, and what are they telling us? That fifty - two of the sixteen municipalities in the country are excluded from implementing the two - year - old few weeks later, because nothing has happened. No rooms were found, there were no teachers, there was nothing. And the executives of the Ministry, chosen by SYRIZA, were called "Show order to postpone". So well SYRIZA had prepared this. We have done so with pride and we therefore say, as the President of the New Democracy has promised, that every four-year-old child will be in a kindergarten in September. Two-year-old kindergarten is becoming reality from this September all over the country. Really fifth: skills. It says the Qualified Opposition "Removes critical knowledge". We agree. But we do something about it, we do the multiple book. And why does that matter? Because the student will now be invited to combine sources. We leave one single book, and it is now called upon to combine sources. In the same line, we change the curriculum in the cultivation of exactly the combination of thought. Skill labs. That's all we do. What's the main target? From learning our children, we also have a new dimension, learning how to learn, to be able to distribute information, to distinguish useful from useless, correct from wrong. All this with critical thought. Really sixth: appointments. Here I will agree with Mr Kotsos, whom I warmly thank for the excellent cooperation. Mr. Kotsos said it was a point where we were inconsistent. Yeah, we were inconsistent. We promised five thousand two hundred fifty assignments this year and instead of them, we went to the eleven thousand seventeen hundred appointments, the first in the history of the country after twelve years. And we did this, on 6 July we announced it, on 23 July the decision was signed, and the names of the nominated ones come out tomorrow. This is the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who announces and implements immediately to be all of these teachers from September in schools. What did SYRIZA have to say about that? "You delayed" says, in the two years with a pandemic, while in the four and a half years of SYRIZA how many appointments were made? Zero! Really seventh: minimum import base. I would like to start here with Mr Varoufakis. I must admit, I was very surprised at his very aggressive attitude, his right is obviously. I was amazed that it is contrary to the attitude of the representatives of his party. Before the bill was filed, we invited representatives of the parties to the Ministry. I must tell you that the meeting we had with two representatives of Mera25, Mr Moschos and Mr Lampshas, was one of the best discussions and meetings we have had, a fruitful meeting, many proposals, agreement on many issues. Here is a picture completely different in the House. I'm worried about it. Does the party actually speak with its representatives? I see a completely different attitude. Mr Varoufakis said: 'You abolished 1% for the introduction of the citrus fruits'. Inaccurate. Our Parliamentary spokesman answered in a very full manner, and he explained exactly that no change has taken place. But to be clear about the sperms. Social policy is to have summer schools for children working in the day, social policy is to have arrangements to get in with 1%. It is not for these children to say 'the minimum basis is not at all valid'. That is not social policy, when you lead them in this way to be locked in the universities without a specific way out. I come to the evidence about the graduates, because much has been said. Mr. Philie, I'll give you three papers, three measurements. And I regret these results, because they unfortunately show a weakness of our country. But we'll fix it. Three modes of measurement. Based on the number of graduates, as a percentage of all students, our country has unfortunately been in 9.17% lately. SYRIZA says "yes, but eternal students are also in." Second way of measurement, number of graduates as a percentage of the total new entrant population: 40% are not graduated, second measurement. SYRIZA says "yes, but the Bank of Greece". Bank of Greece, third mode of measurement: number of graduates as a percentage of all students in the year in which they should graduate. Unfortunately, our country has been here lately. Again, we must not be proud, otherwise. We all have to work together to fix it. But that's the reality. And I come to the evidence invoked by the Chief of Officerial Response. It says "But, here the Bank of Greece's figures show that we fell to 4,7". Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, let's read a little bit. Mr. Secretary said so before. Here's the Commission's report. What's he saying? Does it say what you're saying? Oh, no. The 4,7 is the school leak, it's the ones completing high school. But how many make news now, Mr. Friend and Mr. Tsipras? I'm filing all this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He then said Mr Tsakalotos, I think, 'Where did you find them in the parliamentary amendments which established parts?' But that's exactly what happened at SYRIZA. On SYRIZA, in order to satisfy this populist policy of "all in universities freely without criteria, without any criteria", hundred and fifty-three new university departments were founded in SYRIZA. How? Some of the last minute's parliamentary amendments. Because we're talking about evidence, here's the evidence. With Members of the then conspiracy called 'please a section'...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Philly, wear your mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u238	...with parliamentary amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u239	One truth you can't tell!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u240	Your mask!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u241	You're a lie machine!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Philie, respect the Minister and wear your mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Philly, the lies are documented, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u244	It's Fake News.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u245	Please! Why all this trouble? I don't know why. What are you worried about? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Well, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u246	Let me read to you, 'cause you said we said we were just making some news. It's founded Department of Music. Two lines of justification. Member of the then co-chairman with a last minute parliamentary amendment. I remember it as yesterday when Mr Gavroglou was saying 'please establish parts'. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u247	One hundred and fifty tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Philly, your mask and don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u249	Parallel computers. I must tell you that today when applications for parallel computerisation are being completed, we have for the first time in our country about twenty thousand applications for entry in public IEK. This marks a major change in the country's education page. Training enters the map as a choice for our young people. It is the government's duty to build choices for young people and from there on, it is the young people who will make their choices. However, we must constantly strengthen these options. Because we've been inquiring because the minimum base since this year, I'll answer you exactly the way I feel it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u250	Are you going to tell us about colleges?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u251	I'll come to that, don't worry, Mrs. Perka. Because every year that passes and the state does that there is no such problem, every year that passes, and we allow children who do not meet minimum academic requirements to be introduced, there are three problems: The first is that the odds for low-grade children are not to graduate. So, we've contributed to enclosing them. The second is that it is the wrong message to children who have achieved higher performance. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, in every competitive process others go better, others go worse. And thirdly, it is our debt to the Greek taxpayer, respect for the Greek taxpayer's money and the parts that exist in the country. The only easy thing would be to say to all of us freely in universities, no matter whether these children graduate. We don't. And now I come to the rabies war you have come to organize for the minimum import base. There is a resolution on the Internet, which you are trying to strengthen every way, asking for my resignation. Mr Philis made three - four references to this issue, he did not listen much, he made a press release in which he said it was a move - I say it - 'without party guidance'. Incidentally, it is a move that is methodically supported by all the friendly means that are adjacent to SYRIZA. The most serious thing, though, is not that. The most serious thing is that it seems that the whole mechanism has been in the back and it sends a massive e-mail to the country. I am sure that the required GDPR consensus on these applications has been obtained. For they come massively e-mails that say "tick here to validate your signature for the abolition of the minimum base and the resignation of Kerameos". And you'll tell me where I know. But, ladies and gentlemen, my e-mail has arrived. Mr. Phil, you're nailing! You're really nailing! At least the pretexts. Tell your partners. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So here is the e-mail that even arrived in my office from your rabies wish to abolish the minimum base. I'll testify for the Minutes. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the point of the article on the simple call. Here is a forecast on the country's academic map. I'll tell you why. It is therefore planned to give a simple opinion of the Senate on the reorder of the academic charter. Why? Because obviously, as the Council of State has judged, there are issues relating to the academic charter as a whole. When, for example, the SYRIZA government went from forty-seven to seventy-seven, I say, one of the forty-seven to seventeen - who will judge this? Will the university judge itself? The issue that we are discussing has already been decided by the Council of State in plenary in 2014, where it was decided that precisely because the country's academic map is the responsibility of the state, there are criteria that go beyond academics, such as the country's development path. It is for this very reason that the Senate's simple opinion is in line with the Constitution. But I ask: Mr. Philly, this sensitivity to the senate where was it when Mr. Gabroglou made it come see in the academic map? He closed sections, opened sections, topped up, and closed a T.E.L.A. When he did all this, where exactly was the consortium's assent? Where was he? I now come to the eighth truth about colleges. You were forced to admit yesterday, after the great political pressure, and you said 'Yes, we did make decisions on the professional parity of colleges'. But Mr Skourletis came out and said "good, only for alternates", "only for a while", "we were forced by the troika" and so on. So because I want to talk with evidence, I thought I'd do a little bit of research, see it was just the unpaid? Let's go see. Nicos Friends decision to define terms, criteria and procedure for the recruitment of alternates. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's move on. Invitation Nikos Friends to recruit primary school teachers, secondary school in 2016. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'. Invitation of Constantine Gavroglou in 2017. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'. And nobody would say. Was it really just in education? That's a little bit of a search. Very little. Invitation to Helena Kountoura - you remember her, Deputy Minister - for the recruitment of well-trained teachers to the IKK. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u252	There are permanent appointments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u253	Let's go to another department. Invitation by Nikos Kotzias and Giorgos Huliarakis to enter 15 following embassy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'. Decision Olga Gerovasili, Georgiou Stathaki, Georgiou Tuliarakis on the establishment of staff recruitment persons in the register in 2017. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'. Let's move on. Because I remember Mr. Tsakalotus calling a lot the other day. Euklidi Tsakalotou and Mariliza Xinoyannakopoulou Decision to define skills in upholding scientific staff in the Information Society in 2018. 'The professional equivalence of colleges is normally recognised'. Let's go to health. Decision Andreas Xanthi and Paul Polakis on staff recruitment procedures and qualifications. So, gentlemen of SYRIZA, was he only in the teachers? Did the troika force you? But how hypocrisy, gentlemen of SYRIZA? How hypocrisy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll testify everything for the Minutes. This stack, ladies and gentlemen of Officer Response, will haunt you. And it will haunt you not for any other reason, because you did well as it was the Union's obligation, but it will haunt you for your hypocrisy. It will haunt you for the lack of political courage to go out and say yes, because it was a Union obligation. That's why it's gonna haunt you. And it was just an indicative list. It was dozens of decisions. It's only indicative. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was an obligation of European law. That's what I mean. So, have you ever abolished that? You abolished it two months before the election. You did all the recruitments over the years and came and abolished it just before the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u254	January 2019!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u255	I come to the ninth truth about the pandemic. Many colleagues of the Officerial Response have mentioned telematics fraudulently, which operated during the period of protection measures against the coronary. Television may ever replace lifelong education, but it has helped catalytically in order to keep school contact with the educational process in the difficult time of the school's being suspended. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 393a]] For the success of teleinformatics, the educational community has co-operated together. There were over thirty - five thousand classes a day in secondary and over fifty - five thousand in primary school thanks to the enormous efforts of our teachers, students, parents, and we thank them warmly. And you come back and you're talking about doubled parts, like you've never ruled. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, one class of the fourteen should have been housed, only one, to expand the kindergarten from four to five more years. And you didn't make it. One class, not fourteen. One class. And you're relinquishing us that it's not possible, all of a sudden, to double the country's halls? Here, for the record, it is a table that has all the OECD countries and shows that our country is fourth of the end, with the smallest number of students per section. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the ESP. The Institute for Education Policy is constantly adopting directives. It will also issue a roadmap for the new year, precisely to help our teachers. So let us, ladies and gentlemen, destructiveness and let us all join in the fight to promote vaccination. I have heard criticism of the amendment tabled on fast-track recruitment procedures in case they are ill or cannot be in the classroom. You have struck us because it was not tabled in this bill and it is tabled in tomorrow's bill, and you even told us that it is not a good piece of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, unlike you we are trying, except in exceptional cases, not to table late amendments. That is why, while respecting the right legislation, we have ensured that the amendment is tabled and that we are here - do not worry - defend it. He said Mr. Pafilis that we are bringing in secret bills only in August. Mr Pafile, we brought a bill in December, January, February, but then the criticism of the JRC was that we have a pandemic and not bring it along. So when should we legislate? December, January, February, not because we have a pandemic. Summer no, because you say the teachers are out. When are we finally going to legislate? And I close, Mr President, with the tenth truth, perhaps the only point we agree with the Civic Opposition, and this is the following: two worlds are colluding in this bill. This is a world of the New Democracy and the Government, that is, the bill that we brought here. And this is SYRIZA's world, that is, the three amendments that SYRIZA has tabled to this bill. SYRIZA asks: First, the abolition of a minimum import base. Secondly, the abolition of a theme bank - leveling everything! - and let it be a rule everywhere in the European Union. Third - listen, listen! - the abolition of evaluation at universities and its link with funding. Ladies and gentlemen, when we came to things what money each university was making, it was an arbitrary decision of each Minister. Mr Philis, in other words, decided on his own whether he would give 40 million to the 'x' university or to the other. We have come and said that this is not right. There must be objective and qualitative criteria. Criteria objectively such as the number of students, such as the geographical spread of the institution. Quality criteria, i.e. assessment. And we brought it and voted for it and implementation has begun. SYRIZA comes in and says no assessment at universities! That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is where two worlds conflict. The government's bill of greater freedom and autonomy in schools, greater confidence in teachers, evaluation to improve the education system and SYRIZA, on the other hand, who says no to the minimum, not to the subject bank, not to the assessment at universities. We, ladies and gentlemen, in the world, will always fight for most and best supplies for our students. And so since September we will have kindergartens from four, we will have English at every public kindergarten in the country, we will have skills from four, kindergarten, primary high school, we will have double standards and experimental schools, we will have a professional education closer to the needs of society and the market, we will have a Recovery Fund with over 1.3 billion euros for education and we will also have top cooperation between our universities and foreign universities. Just last week the cooperation of the leading university of Yale with the N.A.S.A. university was announced. We - and I close, Mr President - are fighting for Greece and fighting, for an educational system that will stimulate everyone in the field, which will cultivate the critical thought, which will teach our children how to learn, which will give our children more and better facilities, which will give our teachers a better educational system, which will give the Greek society a means of development and progress. For this Greece, we are fighting for this education and we will fight for it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the education we are giving our children today will nominate Greece tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Social Affairs, Production and Trade have submitted their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Following the Finance Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, the Loan Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic and their Annexes'. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Strengthening the school, strengthening the educational and other provisions' is finalised. We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. In principle and on Articles 56 and 185 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u257	Also, at the outset of the draft law, Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece have applied for a roll-call vote, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u258	I will not read out the list of signatories for roll-call voting, because due to the special circumstances, we consider that there is the necessary number for their submission. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes (10 minutes), in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the two votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u260	The House has agreed. After also congratulating the services of the House and the unadulterated officials who have approached the time of the roll-call vote, we shall proceed to the roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 56 and 185 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House with whom they make their votes known. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] Until the electronic counting is completed on the vote on the principle and on Articles 56 and 185, we shall vote on the remaining articles, amendments and the entire bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u262	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to register them in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the vote in principle and on Articles 56 and 185. A total of 291 Members voted. In the light of the foregoing, the Court In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. "OH, 133 MPs voted. "PARON" voted no one. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "The upgrading of the school, the strengthening of education and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. Article 56: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. 'PARON', 27 MPs voted. Article 56 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 185: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Under Rule, 'NO', 133 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 185 was therefore accepted by a majority. The positions of the parties, as regards the roll-call vote on the principle and Articles 56 and 185, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u264	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "The upgrading of the school, the strengthening of educational and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and as a whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u265	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u266	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-28-S1-commons.u267	With the consent of the House at 20.16' the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, July 29, 2021, at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Modernisation of the Hellenic Register, new digital services and strengthening of digital governance", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
