ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 23-6-2021 authorisation, the PMA's minutes of Wednesday 23 June 2021 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Economic restoration of concessionaire airports due to the consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic over the year 2020’.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport, Health and Tourism, arrangements for productive activities and other provisions for strengthening development'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 17 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that rapporteurs, special speakers, parliamentary representatives, a circle of speakers, including one speaker from each parliamentary group and a twelve-member circle of speakers with the known proportion: five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA and one from the other parties. A teleconference service or physically present is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has been designated by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I think there is no objection to the original proposal on the procedure. There are five amendments. We will be aware of what time the ministers will come to support them so that they can be familiar with the speakers. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mr Giannis Andriano, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law on 23-6-2021: 'Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today in plenary produces significant positive changes in the regulatory environment of entrepreneurship and solves existing and imperative problems. It is the follow-up to the recently adopted Law 4796/2021 and includes the new business activities of three ministries - the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Tourism - in a simplified licensing regime under Law 4442/2016. This almost completes the relative commitment of our country to the institutions, as there are fewer activities left, such as the tourist ports whose institutional framework is being examined by the Ministry of Tourism and certain services, such as artificial tanning, for example, the Ministry of Health, which currently do not have an authorisation framework. In particular, the economic activities simplified in the draft law are: Enterprises and partners of road assistance, schools of car and motorcycle drivers, the theoretical training centres of candidates, schools and vocational training centres for the award of a certificate of professional competence to drivers of passenger and goods vehicles, autonomous dietary offices and multivalent dietary units, workshops on aesthetics, tourist offices, road transport undertakings, thermal treatment units, health tourism centres, heating centres, sea therapy centres. The constant simplification of procedures for the start-up of business activity, in particular, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises that are burdening asymmetrically the burden of bureaucracy and uncertainty, is our obligation to the national economy and a prerequisite for strengthening productivity and competitiveness. We must therefore constantly listen to the social partners, seek and take advantage of the potential of digital technology and best international practices, so that we can effectively reduce the suffering and burden of bureaucratic processes that no longer respond to any essential need, of course, while fully ensuring the public interest. This constant reform is at the heart of the dynamic advancement by the current government of the digital transformation of our country, as the speed and effectiveness of this transition will judge the future and the prospects of the multi-faceted development of our country. I would therefore like to emphasise the constructive nature of the debate in the preparation of the draft law in the committee responsible by the rapporteurs. The achievement of this distinguished broad consensus, which I believe will be recorded today, is an optimistic demonstration of a basic consensus on this crucial issue. As far as the content of the bill is concerned, therefore, the first part contains the arrangements for simplifying the authorisation of economic activities. The simplification concerns, in particular, the placing of the economic activities concerned in the notification procedure without the adoption of an individual administrative act, as these, following a risk assessment, are classified as a low risk category. Where there is, of course, a significant risk to the public interest in carrying out the activity, which cannot be addressed through the notification authority, the activity is covered by the prior authorisation for the establishment and operation. In addition, the scope of each individual activity shall be defined, the competent authority, the notification or approval regime, the irregularity, the checks, the consequences of the infringements and penalties, the authorisation, intervention and non-applicable provisions and the entry into force. In this direction for road assistance and vehicle assistance operations, schools of motor vehicles and motorcycle drivers and the theoretical training centres of candidates, a competent licensing authority shall be defined as the Transport and Communications Directorate of the relevant regional unit and shall provide for the procedure for notification. The same licensing authority shall be defined for schools and vocational training centres for the issue of a certificate of professional competence for drivers of passenger vehicles and goods, however provided for in an authorisation scheme. A notification scheme shall also be provided for individual dietary offices, multivalent dietary units and aesthetic laboratories with the Public Health, Health and Regional Unit for the Virological Treatment Units, Humatic Tourism Centres and Sea Treatment Centres with the competent authority the Special Investment Promotion and Authorisation Service of the Ministry of Tourism, as well as for tourist offices and road transport undertakings with the relevant regional tourism agency. It is also important to simplify the procedure for the entry into service of public tourist buses, which will now form part of the notification of the main activity. The procedure for replacing marketing authorisations for special public buses is also being redefined and simplified. The time and conditions for withdrawal and removal from the register shall be defined. The conditions for the right of replacement of vehicles are then arrived and updated and the conditions for recovery of the licence are specified. Finally, the availability of the notification to any interested party, the specification of units of divisive offices, workshops of aesthetics, tourist agencies and specific tourism infrastructure issues is defined. The second part concerns arrangements for development activity. The authorisation of processing and logistics activities and the development of business parks shall be regulated. Included in organised processing and business receptors business parks with a large single unit and the installation of industrial activities within organised receptors. It is defined that the limits on construction uses and construction conditions are not amended to the resolution business parks as well as to the business parks of an individual large unit during the preparation, modification and revision of the general urban plans and open city residential plans without the agreement of the management development bodies and the relevant services that approved their development. And provision is made for the possibility of overruns in storage, distribution centres and the extension of the content of the individual large units to which a business park can be approved by including large logistics units. The provision for the development of a business resolution park in Oinophitas is also amended to ensure that, in accordance with the specific spatial framework for industry, areas of high productivity agricultural land, which are structured and comprise unruly established enterprises, are not excluded. The establishments are also regulated within business parks and industrial activities and the temporary authorisations of enterprises are extended until the adoption of the general urban plan. It is also important to specify the relevant professional skills of the project machinery in order to allow partial access to the activity of all the relevant equipment after successful practical examination. The Committees of Inquiry are also facilitated, as if no representative is appointed by the Greek certification body for qualifications and professional guidance, to participate in the position of the representative of the Technical Chamber of Greece. The second part deals with the supervision of electronic stores, e-shops marketing and handling counterfeiting, counterfeiting, issues relating to the use of the corporate seal, as well as information to the consumer before the transaction on the currency conversion charges related to card transactions and credit transfers. In particular, it provides for the imposition of fines for the illicit trade in counterfeit and counterfeit goods and the deletion of the websites of those stores under the supervision of the Management of Statistics Processing and Electronic Trade Management of the Market Operational Unit as well as the treatment of the continuing illegal activity through new and different electronic addresses. An amendment to the relevant provision of Law 4456/2013 provides that, in order to demonstrate the representation and management of legal persons on documents, the signature of the legal representative, his name, his capacity and the registration number of the act of representation of the General Commercial Register is sufficient. For other legal persons who are not obliged to register in the GFCM but in other public registers, in particular maritime and shipping companies, agricultural cooperatives and unions, proof of representation and management shall be defined as GFCM by the sole difference that the relevant protocol number of the representation act entered in the register registered by the legal person will be recorded. The representation of public limited liability companies and companies is thus adapted. Finally, as a competent authority for the management of complaints and for the enforcement of sanctions relating to cross-border payments and the introduction of technical requirements and business rules for credit transfers and direct debits to the Consumer Directorate-General of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection of the Ministry of Development and Investment. The fourth chapter examines individual issues of strengthening the development process. Article 42 provides that projects by Greek enterprises participating in proposals of significant projects of common European interest approved in accordance with Communication 2014/C188802/EU shall be financed by the national or co-financed part of the public investment programme. Specific arrangements for the first programming period of the National Development Programme are also being extended and two members are being extended by the Management Board of the Industrial Property Organisation. It is defined as the date of commencement of the search for remuneration unduly paid on the day following publication of Law 4409/2016, i.e. 29 July 2016 in order to implement the principles of legal certainty and legitimate expectations and makes it compulsory to issue the various authorisations, attestations and certificates relating to buildings and facilities through the relevant electronic platform. The third part of the bill also addresses urgent issues such as the extension of the deadlines for antiseptic production companies to respond to increased demand for disinfectants in the context of the treatment of pandemic, the acceleration of justice awards, the cases relating to copyright in training programmes, public procurement issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the regularisation of the appropriations entered into since the entry into force of Law 4781/2021, i.e. from 28-02-2021 by the Foreign Ministry's external service authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill substantially simplifys the procedure for the licensing of small and medium-sized enterprises in these sectors by reducing bureaucratic burdens and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, but also resolves a number of real and pressureful issues in a genuine way. It is another important step taken by the Ministry of Development, the political leadership, the partners made by the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u3	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before going to the individual provisions of the bill under discussion, allow me a brief reference to a major issue of topicality, what concerns the insurance and yesterday's announcements by Prime Minister Mitsotakis, which provides private individuals with substantial contributions to supplementary insurance contributions of millions of workers, contributions of at least EUR 75 billion over at least twenty-five years and will be the subject of a bet on the international financial markets. These are political practices which have been condemned over time to the citizens' conscience, and the government obviously does not have the legitimacy to bring in and vote without the slightest basis of consensus, a bill which will bind the resources of the insurance funds over decades and will bring about a major blow to the pension performance process, namely the money that the workers spend a lifetime and therefore constitute a sacred fund that no government is entitled to gamble. Of course, I must admit that in relation to Mr Karamanlis' government, the current government of Mitsotakis has systemized this tactic and discovered more institutional and communication friendly gaming channels, for example in relation to the structured bonds of the period 2005-2007, for which it is typical that the size of losses for our insurance funds has not yet been clarified. Of course, no one can forget the famous and highly successful PSI of the Samara-Venizelos coexistence. And all this just a few days after the vote on the disgraceful working bill that abolishes the eight-hour and five-day work and falls to nadir the cost of overtime for employers, after the violation of the democratic right to strike, after the abolition of collective agreements. The Government of New Democracy is constantly making sure to create conditions of memorial suffocation in Greek society despite the fact that the memorials are already from August 2018 thanks to the Government of SYRIZA. Here I cannot mention yesterday's article of two excellent universities known for their involvement with insurance, Mr Robrol and Mr Betsi, entitled: 'Having the debt out of the changes to supplementary pensions', which states that the most important problem of the capitalisation of supplementary social security is the cost of transition which, according to international and European literature, undermines the country's financial situation in the short and medium term, saying that with the proposed reform of insurance, the Greek economy will be at pressure and under strict surveillance by 2062. Now, of course, the love of the New Democracy for monuments cannot be concealed as well as its indifference to the sustainability of the public insurance system by risking future workers' pensions. In the absence of any memoranda, of course, the current government has the unique ability to invent them as it does with the so-called Pissaridis project, which applies rapidly and highly decisively. I wish that this kind of fast track procedure would also be seen in other areas, such as the strengthening of the National Health System in the midst of a pandemic. However, on the contrary, we are seeing typical delays as was the case with today's draft legislation that took two years for the government to put them to the vote and indeed within an incomplete framework, as I shall explain. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more necessary than ever to draw up a comprehensive strategy as the central problem of the next day for the Greek economy, in order to tackle the real problems faced by workers and businesses without communal tactics and microparticipatory purposes. This bill is in agreement at the outset. Besides, how could it happen otherwise when it is a continuation of the successful legislative initiatives of the SYRIZA Government? We do not change positions and opinions when we are in government or then in Civicism, we remain firm. It is worth reminding us that in 2016 the previous government passed Law 4441 and Law 4442, which simplified the framework for economic activities to around 85% of the professional sectors and even sectors of particular importance for the overall functioning of the economy. You, on the contrary, took two years to complete the simplification process. While we could overlook the time delay, however, we cannot fail to note the uncertainties, omissions and contempt for how to legislate and implement the draft law's provisions. On this basis, let me refer to four examples. One is bad legislation through the obvious and unprecedented deterioration of the institution of public consultation. It is characteristic that about half of the bill under discussion was not even raised in the suffering of consultation and the citizens did not have the opportunity to express their opinion or objections. In fact, in consultation, only the easiest part of the bill was raised, which was in absolute connection with the provisions of the laws of the SYRIZA government. The second example concerns the tools available for implementing legislation. Minister, the laws must be implemented and for them to be implemented must be accompanied by predictions of control mechanisms and supervision of procedures. Over the years 2021 must meet the requirements of digitisation in particular, and when your Government likes to keep talking about an effective state. On this issue, the previous government of SYRIZA announced in 2018 the OPSAD, the Integrated Information System for Activity and Control, in order to make controls and supervision a reality within the digital environment. For your part, you underestimated these tools and unfortunately you took two years to manage to find a contractor for the OPSADEC just a few weeks ago. Unless you think you can especially today simplify procedures for the launch and operation of economic activities without the reasonable involvement of information and technology. The third example of your contradictory legislation relates to the multiplicity of authorizing provisions transposing the law into joint ministerial decisions, such as the total of six CSTs required for the effective implementation of the funds of the first part for road assistance undertakings for vehicles and road assistance workers, the schools for motor vehicles and motorcycles, and the theoretical training centres for candidates, as well as the schools - professional training centres for the provision of a certificate of professional competence for drivers of vehicles and goods. Finally, there is the challenge of the missed opportunity to which the Ministry fails to respond. While you have the possibility of solving years of problems in the end with your legislation, you leave quite significant gaps. A characteristic example is the provisions for the establishment and operation of separate diabetic offices and multivalent diabetic units based on the outdated legislative framework of 1996. However, unfortunately, you do nothing to control, as a coordinate state has to do, people who practice this profession. At the same time, the operation of the autonomous dietary office with the multi-powered dietary unit is not distinguished, leading to the creation of conditions of unfair competition with regard to the requirements for the commencement of that activity. Finally, I would like to stress that we support the proposal of the PASYPP, which was tabled and contained in the letter of 18 June, as a problem is resolved in its proposal, which is indeed an investment blocker. As I mentioned to the committees, but also before, we are in agreement with this bill, despite the fact that we are concerned that the incomplete application of the individual articles, due to the Ministry's fears and omissions, may be the greatest challenge following the adoption of the provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u5	And we, Mr. Saraciotis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making the following proposal: because my Minister is going to be gone for an hour, if you agree, and I think it is useful - to present his two amendments now, so that they can be taken into account by the speakers and colleagues, and if you want the Members of Parliament to ask him something you can ask him. Minister, you have six minutes for the two amendments. You can also tell the numbers of amendments to be found by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. A little comment on what Mr Sarakiotis said before. Mr Colleagues, it is good that Members do not speak 'case'. You went up and said two things that made me a big impression. First, repeat the PSI ‘cassette’. I would like to remind you that before the 2015 elections to the PSI you would be conducting a committee of inquiry and Venizelos would take him to prison, following the 2015 elections to all the budgets, which had the signature of the seated behind you, Mr. Tsakalotou, on page twenty-three of each budget in question there was an asterisk, "the debt is viable thanks to the PSI that took place in 2012, etc.". When, as governors, you enjoyed the benefits of the PSI and obviously, you forgot all the "..." that you said before becoming a government for the PSI, you in 2021 in the House are a model. So, the PSI was fine. Who said he was fine? Chaakatos. It's over! But you also made a second inadmissibility, even worse than the first one. You gave us a lesson a moment ago about the OPS - AUD, while you know, I am sure - and you know it because I have explained it as an example - when we changed No 4412. The reason why it has been delayed for two years to be a contractor to the OPS - ASE, which we particularly support, in contrast to what you said, is the OPS - ASE after you handed it over as a tender, the two companies that participated in the tender have gone to the courts, as usual in Greece and on the basis of the provisions of the previous Law of Law 4412 and, even, until the last minute, before the final signature of the contract, to the company that won the first courts, the other company has gone to make new courts on the practices of the contract committee, which had the right again with Law 4412. By my own intervention to this company, which I thank in public, because it was our Memorandum of Understanding to enter the OPC - ASE into operation, the company finally withdrew its insurance measures, the last, fifth, sixth, sixth in a row, we signed the OPC - ASE, and that is why there is still a special mention of the report on the progress of the institutions that was released a few days ago. So you don't know all of this, so you're uninformed, bad for a MP, or you know all this, and you point out the same things for slandering reasons, which is very bad for a MP. I should like to close my parentheses and go to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I'm zeroing the time of two and a half minutes and listen to me. When you ask the ministers for the amendments to speak, you will talk about the amendments. When you take the floor, you will be able to answer each of your colleagues, like Mr Sarakiotis. With your consent - I am sure, because you speak the Greek language very well - the word '..' is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u8	Right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u9	Right. I put you six minutes and you are only talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u10	These are two amendments. The number number 951 and the special 81 of the Ministry of Development and I begin with it. In this case, there are several technical issues, I go to the important issues that concern us. Article 1 ‘Opportunities for the implementation of investment projects’. We thought at the Ministry of Development with Mr. Papathanassis, how to deal with the phenomenon of various loops that have remained on the ground, from previous development laws and from projects that started, but which were stopped because the owner went bankrupt or why he could not implement the investment. And what we have thought and what we are doing with this provision, which I consider to be very important. We are giving the opportunity to an investment that has been completed, at least 25%, if a new investor expressly comes and gives us an investment plan and a guarantee for the amount that this investment owes to the public as a result of interest in surcharges and payments that must be repaid and guaranteeed, to give him three years to implement the investment and then three years after the start of the investment and is operating, to pay back the debt to the public. If he makes the request, takes the investment, spend three and a half years and does not implement the investment, he has given us a letter of property or guarantee to carry out the public debt, which is, in most cases, impracticable and cannot be returned, which is why there are all these bills. We are giving an opportunity to interested investors, in this climate of relaunching the Greek economy and many loans, guaranteed money, etc. which exist, to revive investments that have been dead for too many years. We hope that we will find such investors. It is so written that you will see it, Article 1, in order to guarantee the interests of the public. Article 2 is technical, it harmonizes the law of the consumer, one with the other because it has had problems. Article 3 is also the assistance of the CFD in the absorption of projects. Now, Article 4 is definitely of interest to you all. We have decided, Mr President, that for you with great social sensitivity - and we will be dealing with the Public Investment Programme and we will pay the compensation and the dues to all Greek Sugar Industry officials. As you know, the Greek Sugar Industry is now being wound up. Workers are in the courts against the company and the public for their accruals and cover for their insurance contributions, these have been estimated at EUR 1,441,477 and we have decided to pay them back to all employees, and the social security contributions due, so that legal proceedings can also be terminated and they can continue their lives and the resolution of the EBZ can also proceed. The other provisions are typical of the Lamia report, to have some margin, and we are giving the guardian some kind of prolongation. In Article 7 we allow officials from the Ministry of Development, the General Secretariat of Commerce, who are serving at the Trademarks Office of the General Secretariat, on their own request, if they so wish, to go to the Industrial Property Organisation which is the area you know, we have transferred the competence to issue the trade marks. So those who were working on the trademarks at the Ministry of Development, if they wish, I repeat, can, with one simple request, go through and go to the Industrial Property Organization. In this case the cost of payroll is covered by the Industrial Property Organisation. Article 9 is of the Ministry of Interior and has to do with the functioning of the municipalities and regions through the Economic Committees. For Article 10, it is from the Ministry of Rural Development and the State Secretary responsible will be here soon to explain it. That is the first amendment. The second amendment, with a general number of 952 and a special 82, is not so interesting, it has technical issues in relation to the functioning of the PSC, namely, the five-year plan for the Public Investment Programme, and it also has an article on the extension of contracts of the administrative staff of the PDO, the educational groups of the Ministry of Tourism. That is all, Mr President, and I am at the disposal of colleagues for any question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u12	Minister, I think you have wronged our rapporteur for the PSI and you have not studied the matter enough. The PSI came to correct the initial error of the first memorandum. I say this without intent. The main mistake of the first memorandum is that it agreed to become the memorandum, and at the end of the day it would be possible to resolve the debt. This has had too many consequences for your own government and for all subsequent governments. The IMF doesn't usually do it. It is not the way economists manage bankruptcy. First you fix the debt and then you say you can pay back either you're a state or you're a business. The PSI comes in and says Mr. Georgiadis was positive, that he made it sustainable. It's not like that. Obviously the question is whether the PSI reduced the debt rate. He obviously reduced it. The two questions are: did the debt become truly viable? The international community, economists, funds, international organisations have felt that it was then sustainable? Of course, the IMF said it was viable because it cannot lend to a country unless it says that the debt is viable. A week after the PSI, the newspaper "FINANCIAL TIMES" writes that Europeans again - not criticising Venizelos and Samaras, but in the institutions - kicked the dene down. It's this British expression that they didn't solve. In fact, what did the PSI do? It recycled the problem internally with the problem of banks, which the first memorandum gave the northern countries time to get rid of the Greek public bonds. This is how the ECB, the European Central Bank, did it. Greece could not do that and so the problem was recycled internally. The opposite problem has been created by the other European countries. The fiscal crisis has led to the financial and not backwards, as has happened in most countries. The truth is - and this is most important - that the only government that has solved - and I will explain - the debt issue was ours. It has not solved it forever, because it is still a great deal of debt as a percentage of GDP and it will be even greater because of the pandemic. But for ten, fifteen years, the flow - not the debt reserve - has been solved, that is, how much we have to pay every year. This is the serious debate we need to have. That is why, Minister, you have the greatest responsibility for all of us. Because the ten, fifteen years that then all the funds, the financial papers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u13	Come on, Mr. Chakaloto, now. This debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u14	I'm sorry, the Minister did an analysis. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u15	Okay, I left you three minutes. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u16	I think everyone is watching this debate with some interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, but don't get out of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u18	So they agreed that they had a window of ten, fifteen years, which we have low financial needs, so we can slowly resolve the stock with development policies. And that's where you have the greatest responsibility for all of us. Because what we - I think the Change Movement and the JRC and Mera25 - think is that with these development policies you are losing the opportunity of the recovery fund, you are losing the chance of the pillow you had again if nothing changes, we may have great problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u19	All right, Mr. Chakaloto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u21	I guess not to talk about the PSI. On the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u22	About the regulation for the workers of the Greek Sugar Industry. Does this concern, Minister, those who had been on early retirement or have excluded them? They're nervous and they want people to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u23	Does another colleague want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u24	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u25	Here you go, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, with your tolerance I would like to make an introductory remark in relation to what has been heard about the PSI. It is a matter for PASOK and the then Minister of Finance, Evangelos Venizelos, in particular by SYRIZA. And you remember, Minister, that many New Democracy MPs had not voted for it at that time and many officials who were then exploited in high state posts. The PSI contribution is indisputable. It's the largest reduction in government debt ever recorded. All the exhibitions and the Bank of Greece and the budget show its contribution to improving the debt profile and to the fact that the debt today can be considered unsustainable. So, this conversation, I think, unfortunately comes back from his colleague SYRIZA, because he reminds him of the times...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u27	I only said about the PSI.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u28	I am referring to Mr Sarakiotis. Badly, because it has been used for so many years in a way that I think it does not fit the style and style, with which Mr Tsakalotos has been placed today. Minister, on the amendments I would like to say that you are really surprised at us. Until now, you have informed us of the content and timing of the amendments. Suddenly, you are coming at the last minute and you are bringing amendments to which you have not informed and which you have not presided over. I would like to make a comment. Be a little more stubborn when you talk about suffocating deadlines in relation to Article 1 of Amendment 951. You say that in three years' time if they don't, we'll get the guarantee and it'll be over. You are talking about investment projects in 2004, to which the legislator is now coming to give an extension of three years. So the message you are going through and the investment community is obviously inconsistent with what the Government and the Ministry of Development should show that there are rules, serious operation, timetables and stability. That is what I think should be of concern to you. We understand the need for no shells. But at some point, however, those who invest in the country must know that there are rules, frameworks and timetables that are clear. And because this is an amendment that has come too many times with the extensions of development law, at the same time it does not improve the plans in the new development plan and put them in place for over two years, I fear, Mr President, that there will be too many such amendments in the next period, which will give extensions and send out a completely wrong message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u30	Your parliamentary representative spoke. We don't open a word. One of every party. Mr Bukkoro, would you like, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask my colleagues to explain what has happened and what has happened with the history of the Greek Sugar Industry. I am well remembered as a new Member, at the time, by the then government for statism. Finally, the farmers who delivered their products and the workers who worked there were also unpaid. Let us see what happens when the state takes on the role of such intervention and if you want to play a businessman, in order to avoid such bad examples in the future too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Minister, you'll answer in three minutes without opening a second cycle. I say very clearly that Mr. Katrinis will come up in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I have four different colleagues to answer. I might take some more time. I'm starting backwards, Mr. Bukkoro, and I'll be brief. In 2015, there was indeed a State intervention in EBZ. We all know it, we all remember it, it was the time of Panagiotis Lafazanis. That intervention led to an examination of the infringement of the conditions of competition by DIGICOM, by the European Competition Committee. The relevant file shall remain open. These two years we have exchanged a number of letters with DIGICOM to avoid imposing a fine on the Greek State because of this intervention. I must tell you that the specific amendment we are bringing today has been agreed that it does not constitute State interference, since the company is being solved and therefore there is no question of breaching the competition principles. You are now aware that intervention at that time was extremely unfortunate. Money was finally wasted. The company wasn't saved. We have already been handed over by SYRIZA under liquidation. Today, the assets of a court decision have come to Piraeus Bank through 106B and some of them have been rented at the Royal Sugar plant of Serres, which the investor claims will produce sugar in the first two years for biogas production. We still have a way to resurrect the sugar industry in general - not EBZ, I mean, for many reasons, in Greece. As far as Mr Katrin is concerned, the amendments are, first of all, not in the short term. They have fully followed the parliamentary order and the reason I have asked the President to announce them at the beginning of the sitting is precisely to have time and to read them and discuss them, and so on. I had no wish to legislate in secret. You know me anyway. I would have liked to have submitted them to the committee on Tuesday. For the well-known bureaucratic reasons, it didn't happen. But they are provisions that will hardly cause political controversy. I believe that this particular point, which you have referred to, is simply because you have not been able to read it carefully, you have said what you have said. Firstly, the provision explicitly provides that the investor must be young, has nothing to do with the former. So, obviously, we put rules and we make it clear that he who has previously undertaken to do the investment project and did not implement his commitment to the state, he is done, he cannot go on with it. The question is what we're doing now. We have - you know them, you've seen them in your constituency and elsewhere - cement, deaf. You say, what's this? There was a time when Twice. He's left with money, he's stopped. And the cement stays there and we see it and it looks at the sea, the plain, the mountains. One solution which we can say, Mr President, is that we do not care about them, let us remain left behind. How long will the cement melt? I know, like, a thousand years? In a thousand years they will have collapsed! The other solution is to think about whether we can get one of them started. So what did we think? I'm saying it again to see how careful it is. It says: 'new investor'. He's coming in and making a request and he says that I'm interested in continuing this investment. It guarantees us the money that this investment owes to the public sector, a guarantee, a guarantee letter or an immovable fixed value exceeding the public debt. For three years the increase in interest on this amount has stopped and it has three years to implement the investment. The Act stipulates that it cannot claim the remainder of the grant received by the original investor. She's gone, it's over, it's over. He's taking the beetles, that is, thinking. Starts, implements the investment, ends it in three years. Once it's done, it starts to pay off with the provisions of the repayment of the public debt, the debt that goes off and starts to pay it. If it spends three years and does not implement the investment, the State automatically performs on the property, the guarantee letter it has put in at the outset. So rules have and absolutely protected is the public interest and the possibility of someone coming. I am not saying 'certainty', I want to be very honest. Because it is precisely because we have put a lot of insurance in order to protect the public interest, that makes the provision less attractive. Because the one who decides, in common, will put his head on the dorva.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u34	Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u35	However, the layout gives an opportunity to some of these deer to stop being deer. I don't know why the Change Movement could be contrary to such an effort. Now, yeah, it's all personal, all of it! Whatever was there, any claim and all the staff will get their compensation. I will conclude by addressing Mr Tsakalotos, after all I say that your speech today was extremely mild, in very good tone, nothing to do with what we told Parliament at the time. If I've studied the PSI well, I'll say something to remind Mr. Katrin. That evening, in February 2012, forty-eight Members were deleted from their parties: forty-six because they voted "no", two because we voted "yes", me and Makis Vorides from the People's Orthodox Alert. We were kind of like the Pontius, saying the joke going backwards to Kifissia. I'm Pontius, and I can say it, so it doesn't seem like I'm saying it against you. So I studied it so well, for voting, I resigned from the State Secretary for Development responsible for shipping and from a Member of Parliament after one day. Why? Because today you said something very right, Mr Tsakalotes, and it is good to explain it to Mr Sarakiotis who sits in front of you. What did you say? Of course the PSI has reduced the public debt, but it has not solved the problem. But nobody said the PSI solved the problem. If you'd asked me if I'd rather never had the Strong Khan episode there had been there in America and his proposal had passed then to delete the public debt in 2010, I'd have preferred it! Apparently, who wouldn't prefer it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u36	That's theoretical!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u37	Theoretically! We'd all prefer it. But what we would prefer has nothing to do with what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u38	All right, it's been nine years! Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u39	I'm closing, Mr. President. So it is, Mr Chakalote - and I thank you and it is a historic day today - the first public report by a SYRIZA Member and indeed the former Finance Minister that the PSI has had a positive impact on the country's budgetary situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u40	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u41	And why do we have to say it? Because that night, Minister, the Greek people were divided, burned out the Atticon, we came out of the National Garden and all because some had sold fairy tales to the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u42	Minister, please close. Finish! We're not going back now! Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u43	I am pleased and explain them to Mr Sarakiotis not to repeat them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u44	All right, we're done. Let's go back for ten years now and fight! The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Michael Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate today is taking place in the shadow of yesterday's mid-term statement that the government is preparing the Greek society for an adjustment of EUR 20 billion over the next five years, where deficits from minus 9.9% will go to over 1.4%. Of course, according to the government, this will be without an increase in taxation. Revenue will increase because GDP will increase, private consumption will increase and all this strategy, which so far at least is not confirmed. It is impressive that the government is trying to put forward measures which it had already announced on several occasions to present as new business support measures of 4.5 billion in the second half of 2021. And I challenge anyone from the government or the majority of the New Democracy who has read it, to tell me a measure described as new for the second half of 2021, which has not already been announced at least three and four times. Secondly, Minister, because you will leave from what I understand - sooner or later, and we will not catch up with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u46	I'll be back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u47	Because I saw yesterday the Communication from the Secretariat-General for Consumer and Trade on the controls carried out in the market for illegal trade, I do not know whether it has been taken into consideration, if you are aware that at present there is a wave of market fluctuations very large and that consumers feel unprotected. I would therefore expect with yesterday's communication from the Secretary-General for Consumers and Trade on the fight against counterfeiting that there is a number of controls and infringements in relation to the excessive price rises that are now flooding throughout the market and are not justified by the increase in transport in all sectors and at all levels. So I would like to see an official position from the government on that. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important problems in the Greek economy is bureaucracy and the low productivity and competitiveness of businesses. And while today we are taking another step towards simplifying procedures for the start of economic activities, since we are improving the existing framework, several questions remain unanswered with regard to business and the competitiveness of the economy. Will businesses be able to survive the next difficult period? Is there liquidity available for these businesses? Will they have an extrovert, innovative and digital character? What about the neural investment sector? Ladies and gentlemen, how competitive can an economy where businesses are characterised as introvertible, low productivity and poorly innovative, such as Greek businesses, according to the last report of the National Bank, when technology does not come into the 40% strategy of small businesses, while the majority does not use partnerships with universities, research centres, when BSE ranks Greece in the European Union's last position, in terms of digital maturity of businesses? How competitive can an economy become when the IMD governmental effectiveness index of Switzerland, where the impact of government policy is reflected, remains stagnant in the low-five second place? And the country's position on the business efficiency index may have improved, and the Minister mentioned it in the committee, but this is something that is not regulated by the government, but mainly depends on the business world and private initiative. So it's not something that's offered for celebrations. Ladies and gentlemen, how competitive can an economy be when access to banking is concerned only thirty thousand companies in a total of eight hundred and thirty thousand active business VDUs, while the cost of financing remains unthinkably high compared to other European countries, despite the fact that the banks draw liquidity at almost negative interest rates? Here too, the Government must inform us what it is doing - if it does - the Restlessness Observatory and what decisions it has taken to broaden not only the funding instruments but also the conditions and conditions for integration into the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. Why do we point that out? For the lack of access by Greek companies to the liquidity of the banking system, the latest IMD report, which is the most recent in terms of the competitiveness of the Greek economy and the latest financial stability report of the Bank of Greece, points out. Ladies and gentlemen, how competitive can Greek entrepreneurship be when in the fiscal competitiveness index we remain very low in relation to both the IMD and the taxfund index according to the Bank of Greece's interim report? And I mention it because it was a pre-election flag of the New Democracy party. Mr Georgiadis, of course, mentioned between the government's achievements an 8.6% increase in fixed capital investments in the first quarter of 1921, arguing that it was the highest performance in the European Union. And it's right, it's like that. But it is important, Minister, to what extent do we start. And the starting point is too low. For 2020 we are only in the sixty-third place between sixty-four countries again according to the IMD index on fixed capital investments, while in the last thirteen years Greece has remained stable at very low levels. And, of course, to be fair, it is encouraging that the country's position has improved overall in terms of competitiveness and has even been mentioned as having the highest position for years. However, we remain low between the countries of the European Union, just in the 20th first place between the twenty-six. We are now going to foreign direct investment, since according to the Commission's latest report, the investment public in 2019 reached nearly EUR 20 billion. 2020 we had direct foreign investment of EUR 3.5 billion and the reduction was 29% compared to the previous year. The government is right to tell us that the reduction is much smaller than the European average where the 80% reduction reached very high. And this is where the starting point, which is very low, is that in our country, foreign direct investment is only 16% of Gross National Product, compared with 60% of the corresponding Eurozone investment rate, while the largest proportion of foreign direct investment in 2020 involves increases in share capital of subsidiaries and investment in real estate and red loans. I think that everyone in this Chamber will agree that these are not the investments that the national economy needs and have no added value and a productive footprint. We need investments in sectors of the economy involving internationally marketable goods using the country's most valuable capital, human resources. It is encouraging that we expect foreign direct investment to rise in 2021, which, if combined with a shorter period of time for completing the investment projects of the development law, will give the necessary impetus to the Greek economy. I say this because the number of investment projects carried out is very low, and the delays in the region are over two years. At the same time, the direction of the recovery fund leaves little room for domestic productive investment, but more for foreign imports of goods and equipment, which has already been foreseen in the 2021 draft budget, which will not be directed to small and medium-sized enterprises at the time of the National Bank's study last year of 55% of small businesses and 72% of micro-enterprises are facing serious problems because of Lockdown. And this is why ELSTAT's figures, which were made public last week, suggest that for two hundred and ten thousand firms that were suspended the turnover was reduced by only 1.8 billion for the quarter which was reduced. The situation is worse in the real economy, since it is known that ELSTAT in the turnover index only records companies with a duty to keep bibliographic books and films above EUR 140,000 per year. The demand remains, therefore, quality investments with a strong footprint on domestic chains of value and well-paid jobs. It is a prerequisite for political consensus and stability. It is encouraging that today this draft law is being passed by a large majority. Furthermore, prerequisites are the simplification and codification of legislation, the integration of innovation and digital technology, the acceleration of justice. Here too, the contribution of the Prosecutors' Review Authority to shortening the years and speeding up the process must also be mentioned so that investments and projects can be made and the electronic interconnection of the services. Ladies and gentlemen, while waiting for the next World Bank report on the competitiveness of the Greek economy, we are adopting a series of measures and proposals, such as the bill we are discussing today and which have been formulated by experts from the World Bank. It is a bill that comes into a similar bill, which we discussed and voted for by a large majority two months ago. It is a bill that improves the establishment of a company in which the country is already in a very good position compared with other competitiveness sub-sectors. It remains to be seen and assess whether governmental legislative practice by adopting a series of ministerial decisions helps practically the entry of new business activities into the economy and is indeed a support tool for professionals. There are some points which we have also raised in the committee and I shall briefly refer to my position. It is the issue of the frequency of checks and, in particular, of the time-limit for determining the first audit of supporting documents. The draft law provides for notification to the integrated information system and supporting documents to be retained at the company's headquarters in order to be subject to any review. The information system is not fully activated, and until the stakeholders are enabled to quote the notification of the start-up date either directly to the competent authority or to any civil service centre, a practice which is clearly not a simplification of procedures and, in our opinion, a great deal of discretion is left to us as to when, but above all, whether the checks will be carried out. We say this, ladies and gentlemen, because, above all, we must ensure equal treatment of businesses and public security, and that is why we insist on the part of controls in a clearly defined time after the establishment of the operation. It also needs a distinction between the autonomous dietary office and the multi-powered dietary unit, and we believe that in Article 37 the fines envisaged should be more high precisely to prevent them from operating in a market which is growing rapidly. I shall refer to the business parks. It is a little acidification in the category of business parks of individual large units, the shape of a single business is also a business park, and I think that further clarification should be given on the need for overruns and the exceptional provision of a special condition of construction for these facilities. In relation to our Oinophilus Park, our permanent location is the protection of areas of high productivity. We pointed this out in the draft law on investment in cannabis. There is a need for a holistic approach to the matter, so that there are no gaps or possible loopholes that can cause infringements in the future. In Article 31, we pass through the approval of a notification to a simple issue of compliance attestation by the ENP. I think that the procedure should be maintained as it is, the guarantees of operation and the necessary conditions should be available, and I think that the provision of Article 32 for the establishment of industrial activities in the St Thomas area is also problematic. Finally, with the modernisation of the licensing of technical activities, we believe that the participation of the ETUC should also be anticipated, as is provided for in No 3982/2011. All representatives of the technical professions must therefore be in the committee which will be consulted and authorized to pursue a profession. In addition, we believe that it is the only opinion of the TEI to obtain a licence to pursue a technical profession. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have said before that I shall refer to my second. The last moment has been tabled, you have analysed them today, we will study them and we will be placed in detail. I would just like to talk about Amendment No 947, which has been tabled for days now, on reduced rates of VAT by 30% on the islands of Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios. Obviously we are in favour of this regulation. The amendment, however, falls short of what the Change Movement has been tabling since October last year when we proposed a reduced VAT rate for the Aegean islands for the recovery of demographic marbles, the strengthening of the purchasing power of local populations, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the tourist product and, of course, the development of local economies in the difficult period and the pandemic, but also in the difficult period following the lifting of restrictive measures. It is not just a reduction in VAT, and I think that the government should perhaps push the European partners further to adopt development incentives for all the islands. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of development in a country from a ten-year crisis and has not yet captured the economic consequences of the pandemic is obviously common, difficult but common. It is a condition of survival at a time when the country's last chance for productive reconstruction and economic transformation is being given. Growth and investment do not come when ideologies actually stumble, causing unnecessary delays and suffering. However, they certainly do not only come with greed and snore of government officials, especially when the things are short of time and substance. A common belief is that we must run faster and more efficiently than the government shows. Our aim in the Change Movement is to speed up procedures, to boost the economy, to strengthen labour and obviously to maintain social cohesion. And in this direction, and in that sense, the Change Movement is voting in favour of this bill at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u48	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. A very brief comment on the PSI and the debate that took place just now. You know, the Greek state debt reminds me of the lawn. The longer you bore it, the more it grows, the more it grows. Isn't that what happened with the PSI? I'm coming to the bill. If you look for the substance of the bill, you will find it very easily in a proposal in the explanatory statement. It says "continuation of the legislative initiative of L.4796/21" - adopted by the New Democracy - "the reform effort is continuing to integrate licensing processes into other sectors of economic activity, under the framework" - be careful - "Law 4442/2016", i.e. a law passed by SYRIZA. In short, each next government takes the baton from its previous and continues, on the road of all the previous ones. And here the road is as we see the SYRIZA Memorandum Law of 2016. Typically, you know, the memorial laws may have ended, but all the memorial laws are here and still, of course, still apply. No 4442/16 was then passed by the SYRIZA government as one of the prerequisites for the second assessment of the third memorandum, a law which was written with the assistance of the OECD and the World Bank and was presented as an important reform move by SYRIZA - ANEL, a law that was praised by industrialists, who, of course, are also expressed in the same warm words on today's bill. One would say: 'Swine grapes last year'. But what do we see today, five years later, even in the so-called memorial period? We see SYRIZA, on the occasion of Mr.Georgiadis' current bill, rejoining and supervising, mentioning that innovative Memorandum of Understanding of 2016, which the New Democracy continues with reasonable and straightforward initiatives, with the aim of always creating a strategic planning to reduce bureaucracy and to simplify the procedures for the start of economic activities as far as possible. I'm not talking about it. SYRIZA's rapporteur says that. In short, SYRIZA claims the paternity of today's bill and, here's why the simple reason why he is finally voting in favour of Mr. Georgiadis' bill. And while he rightly says that we should not treat any bills cut off from the overall policy of a government, which, at the same time, cannot be the case, because today's bill wants to vote on it, it is characterizing it as a fragmentary one, considering it as a randomly good moment of the New Democracy, even if it partially responds to the wider challenges of the Greek economy with a language that would certainly be envyd by BSE. The Georgiadis bill also votes in favour of the principle, namely its essence, and the Change Movement, as long ago this party has thrown away any fig sheet for its anti-popular policy. As you can see, after all this is reasonable and it is expected that Mr Georgiadis will come as Minister of Development and Plenipotentiary, accepting the role of SYRIZA's continuing Memorandum responsibilities, to stress that this whole bill is nothing but the introduction to Greek law of proposals - you know who? - the World Bank, please, an emblematic imperialist organization, so well known, especially to the peoples of the poorest countries for its charitable and philosophical policies in general. What do they show now and what does that prove? What is more, despite the fact that these parties, from New Democracy to SYRIZA, despite their individual differences in the tactical, perhaps even in style, despite the different political backgrounds and references, have nevertheless - and this is demonstrated in critical curves, such as the memoranda, NATO, the European Union, the geostrategic upgrading of Greek business groups - in these critical curves of common strategic aiming and common strategic direction and course. And so it cannot but offer their vote whenever it dictates and requires any legislative effort to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy, as is euphemistically called the strengthening and strengthening of the Greek capital. It's the first time we've seen this happen, so we can all vote together? Oh, no. We saw it recently with the pharaonic business in Greek. Is this the last time? Apparently not. Let's not forget that just the day before yesterday this joint vote also took place in the recent anti-Fraud Abstract, where there was SYRIZA and the Change Movement, despite their hypocritical cries, finally voted in favour of almost half of Mr Hatzidakis' bill. You see the great want of Greek pluralism is always orders for urban parties. It is precisely because today's bill belongs to this category of strengthening capitalist competitiveness, which is why it actually only meets the opposition of the JRC, since, as the workers know and live, this competitiveness of capitalist enterprises does not mean anything but the even greater exploitation of their labour force, whether it is offered manually or offered spiritually. But to go back to the explanatory memorandum to today's bill. It has been studied, said, and international good practices have been incorporated from countries of the European Union, particularly from France. We had no doubt about that. Anti-population practices are increasingly spreading. The European Union is also taking care of this. Shortly below it is stated that the OECD guidelines on simplifying procedures have been followed, i.e. removed directly from the well-known pharmaceutical anti-palactic toolbox of the OECD. What is the main objective of the bill? It is the fully liberated, unobstructed one would say action of the major business groups. Of course, the government, while on the one hand it facilitates and frees the action of business groups, by abolishing any regulation that prevents this business. On the other hand, it seeks to prevent workers from acting and their struggles. This is the conclusion from both the previous resolution of the anti-government and the vote of the next bill, namely today. More specifically now, the first part of the bill forms a framework for eight business activities which had not been included either in the relevant framework of the SYRIZA Act or in the provisions of the recent New Democracy Law. It is, of course, a framework of pro-investment arrangements, with a view to facilitating first and foremost large companies, as these arrangements, like the former ones, gradually lead to an uncontrolled action by the large business groups. Why? What else can it mean to remove any procedure for the licensing of business groups in relation to their compliance with the necessary safety and public health conditions? Does not the abolition of controls actually lead to that? Isn't that the result of the liberation of their action from the prison bonds, as you say? Is that from state controls to fulfil even the minimum obligations of these business groups to society? Admir now how all this is justified in the draft accompanying report: 'The existing ones' - it says - 'licensing procedures cannot best protect the public interest' - take note of why - 'because of the disproportionate administrative burdens they impose. The bureaucracy is burdening business" - why? - 'as a focus on ex ante control, in contrast to ex post control in the course of operations, which is the most substantial'. That is what the explanatory statement says. So it is not too much to say that any controls are actually abolished or, at the most, they are carried out in retrospect. As a JRC, we do not agree at all with all this logic of simplifying the procedures for the start-up of such facilities, because in a number of branches and also in some of the eight of the bill's - you know - safety and public health issues, either for installations or for adequacy, even for the safety of the staff themselves. Things are even worse and more dangerous for the people if we think that in accordance with Articles 5 and 7 of the earlier law that is there it is mentioned that even in the case of the integration of certain business activities into the notification or approval regime where there is a risk of public interest the competent authorities have - it says - the right to carry out self-confidence and checks. What do you think? Really? So, do they have a right not to carry out any checks? Is it possible to monitor, even in these cases, not even for autopsy? To whom and to whom is the bill addressed, the same answer is given: ‘The arrangements concern economic operators and investors who are engaged or wish to carry out the economic activities of which they are facilitated’. Truly, how elegant can it be said that this bill is also intended for the use of major entrepreneurs, who seek to penetrate even more economic activities? In the second part, entitled ‘Special arrangements for development activity’, these arrangements aim to simplify the conditions for the penetration of capital everywhere in the economy, while neglecting earlier provisions of laws that were a little, even in fact, protecting public health and the environment. Of course, these are favourable arrangements in terms of construction, land use, etc. Where can that lead? First of all, the uncontrolled dispersion of the so-called 'business parks', cut and sewn, but not of course of the small ones, as you once referred to, small professionals. In other words, business parks that are now leading to their main mission as privileged investment sites of the major business groups. And we say 'private premises', because according to the bill, the establishment of such industrial activities in these business parks is excluded from being subject to specific provisions relating to the keeping of distances from installations or areas outside these areas. A region, that is, we are baptising it 'business park' and we can overcome other obstacles, as you say them, such as minimum environmental, health and basic urban regulations. There is, however, and all the time, since any logistics company, known as logistics, will, from now on, be able to self-determinate itself in an individual business park - says - business to ensure favourable urban conditions, naturally trampling every concept of environmental protection and quality of life of the residents of surrounding areas. Exaggeration? Not at all. In accordance with Article 28, especially for logistics, it is possible to: In short, the build-up factor is increasing. At the same time, however, the excess is also allowed, up to thirty-two metres. All right, we got it: Open and wait. And you're giving it all up uncontrollably to the big business groups to spread their business to profit. But there is something even worse. According to Article 30, such an industrial park is intended for an extremely heavy area, such as this one nearby, the Oinophitas, an area where industries perpetuate undisturbed and involved in environmental crime. The infection of Aesopus with the hexavalent chromium is known. The environmental crime that lasts in Ashos and Oinofytas with the expansion of the industrial area continues with the vote of all of you. This is capitalist development. She brings her, apart from labour exploitation, and environmental immunity. Two words about e-shops. The relevant provisions on the so-called 'tracking off the block', as people do not know when buying cheap products that they buy'monkeys', cause us concern about the protection of personal data and how easily and how quickly, as experience shows, so large databases end up for sale in the large electronic market. In conclusion, you are all talking about simplifying procedures, but what you mean is abolishing the necessary controls. You're all talking about rationalisation, but what you're bringing is investor immunity. We are, of course, voting against the bill. The amendments will be placed in the dentistry. We have also tabled an amendment to restore the VAT system to all Aegean islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u50	Mr Stavros has the floor for three minutes to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will support the amendment under general number 947 and specific 77. The second amendment is designed to support it by colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the wider policy of the European Union on immigration and asylum, multifunctional hosting and hosting of third-country citizens, as you know, in the islands of Kos, Leros, Lesvos, Samos and Chios, in agreement with the European Commission and with full funding from European funds, are being built. Although today the flows are reduced, the expanded capacity of structures is looking for the management of uncertain future factors. In this context, the Government sought and succeeded in extending the reduced rate of VAT to the five islands permanently. This was the case after the Treasury was negotiated with the institutions and a final agreement with them, as well as the debate last Thursday at the Eurogroup, where the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance raised the issue with arguments. It should be recalled that, to date, the option of the reduced rate of VAT has expired every six months - the latter, in fact, on 30 June, in a few days' time - on the basis of the average annual rate of VAT for guests, which is now being abolished and this is particularly important. Moreover, the proposed provision provides that VAT rates for the five islands, Kos, Lesvos, Samos and Chios are reduced from 1 July to 30%, since the hosting and hosting structures of citizens from third countries are in place within their region and for as long as they remain in operation, without the six-monthly evaluation and regardless of the population criteria. I repeat, it is particularly important. While the above decision is automatically revoked within three months of the closure of the structure. This provision replaces the temporary six-month extension of the VAT reduction applied on the basis of the calculation of the structure capacity. This is because the increase in nominal capacity, which does not involve covering it, often makes it unlikely to fulfil the requirement of overcrowding, subject to the reduction of VAT on these islands. In addition, the six-monthly review may lead to serious volatility of the VAT rate every six months, as the threshold for a period may not be met in the next six months, taking into account that the number of arrivals is volatile. The uncertainty caused by the periodicity of the decision and laid the foundations for economic development and alleviation of the consequences of the economic life of the local societies of the islands of the eastern Aegean, which have been disproportionately affected by the migratory crisis and increased flows in previous years, is thus demonstrated. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u53	What about, Mr. Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u54	About what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u55	Okay, that's something you'll talk about in your speech. Don't waste time. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u56	I'm sorry, Mr. President, can't I use my right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u57	You have the right to ask clarification questions, but take the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stavura, we really told you yesterday that we knew he was coming today. We don't understand what you're doing. I mean, you're really acting like blackmailers. We understand that. I mean, you're saying get immigrants, let's reduce your VAT. That's what you're doing. Do you have the illusion, Mr Staikora, that the problem on these islands, our long five islands, our beautiful islands that we have destroyed, Kos, Leros, Lesvos, Chios, Samos is the subject of VAT? Listen a little. Don't answer me later popularly what do you want in the Greek Solution, not to reduce VAT? Of course, but not because of illegal immigrants. After all, our islands all, the remote islands, Evros, these people want support, they want opportunities, they want reduced VAT, a state and a state that will care for these people, keep them there. Because they're the guardians at our border. It is not possible, however, to say that I am reducing VAT, put a CIT. I mean, the others should put on it. In Kalymnos, for example, why don't you reduce his VAT? So what do the Kalymnons have? Are they children of a lower god? Why doesn't the state - the state, not Stacras - reduce VAT there? I don't really understand. Do you have the illusion that normality will return, that life on these islands will be reduced by reducing VAT? That's not the problem. That's aspirin. The problem is very well what you and the Minister are next to you, which I think many of them might agree with. The problem is the invasion of people illegally invaded in our homeland, who live at the expense of households, islanders, who have lost their sleep, their quietness, their work, their children, their money and have lost their place. That's the problem, Mr. Stakoura. As long as the government works on a mandate from the European partners and they pay you money, they send money to keep them here, Greece is sinking, Greece is bleeding and Greece is hurt. Take care of our country's wound. That's not good enough. It's blackmail. Reduction of VAT where VAT is available. Very well. Reduce him anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u59	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u60	All right, Minister, we're out of conversation. Leave it now. I gave you the floor. When it comes to voting time, we will see what the Greek solution will be voting for, for or against the amendment. It can be explained by Mr. Villard. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, because I did not have the floor in the debate with the PSI, I would like to mention two - three things. Because the attempt to distort the facts with half-truths, which are worse than lies, is still worse than our PSI's accomplices, to say briefly that the public debt has been reduced by 51.3 billion, as we have witnessed here dozens of times by submitting international studies. The consideration was the country's mortgage for ninety years, its condemnation of English law and its conversion into a debt colony. The PSI rescued the German and French banks, while the Greeks were bankrupt, which have cost us almost EUR 60 billion today together with the deferred tax, while they will continue to cost us since they are still problematic. Therefore, we did not even have a financial benefit, but rather a loss. With regard to the prolongation of the debt that Mr Tsakalotos said earlier, it certainly means the 95 billion which ended in 2018, that is, it was due, and we could not pay them. Indeed, they prolonged for after 2032 with one more painful national exchange, namely the delivery of the name of Macedonia. It just coincides with the dates. In conclusion, all this has not solved any problems in the country, but it has all been brought together, growing up, in the future, to our children. At some point, however, the internal troika will answer them, since at some point - we are sure - the Greeks will wake up. The greatest crime, of course, did, after literally murdering the Greeks' last hope by reversing the referendum and signing the third memorandum. In other words, it convinced the Greeks, unfortunately, that there is no alternative, so that the head has fallen down today and accepted everything. I'm coming to the bill now. As mentioned in the first committee, it is mainly about simplifying authorisations as a follow-up to the previous law, Law No 4796/2021. In addition to the fact that we have not received any answer at all to our well-meaning questions, the Minister said it was a Memorandum of Understanding since 2016 of the SYRIZA Government. So, since we are against the policy of memoranda, where only a blind man sees the only thing in the world's historic time disaster that they have caused and continue, unfortunately, to cause in our country, we have no reason to vote for it. Of course, the parties in the troika will vote for it because of their cooperation - as we have said before - with the crime of the memorials, and we will only support some of its positive provisions which certainly exist, as in many bills. What made us a very bad impression in the second committee, however, was the Minister's clearance of debts on the part of his Party, the New Democracy, which is close to EUR 350 million, having increased by EUR 30 million in one year mainly from interest, in that he justified them by the fact that the New Democracy did not delete such things as SYRIZA. Really, does SYRIZA's behavior legalise all other parties to do the same? Is that a serious argument? As we have said, would it not be better for his party to submit a repayment plan - even in the long term - asking, if necessary, for reliefs, as required by all other Greeks with the new bankruptcy and the extrajudicial compromise? Why should parties be treated otherwise? We would like to note here that at first we are not so sceptical about this Minister, assuming that he made the huge mistake in supporting the memorandum, but it was due to unreasonable knowledge of the facts. But from the moment on, and after having tabled the draft law on cannabis, by making the known cubicity, we have changed our minds, how much more so when he has not even hesitated to humiliate himself by apologies from the controversial SYRIZA executive. He really upset us. We have also confirmed, in his view, the financing of ELIAMEP, which determines how much it burdens Greece and beyond, with the reception of Zafe, despite his initial opposition to the delivery of the name of Macedonia. It's really sad. The bill also includes a simplified licensing framework for a number of enterprises, as well as various allocations of qualifications certificates. The first question we have raised is why tourism is being promoted even more, let alone after the so far disappointing results of detentions and arrivals. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance justified the scandalous grant of the "FRAPORT" and the Athens International Airport with amounts much higher than their losses as part of the strengthening of the country's heavy industry, tourism. If possible, tourism - the services - industry. Of course, such grants to the real industry, such as PPC, shipyards or LARCO, are blocked by the European Union, which is the most important reason why Switzerland has even withdrawn from its negotiations with Europe after four whole years. We recalled here that the "Standard & Poor's" provides for the return of tourism to the levels of 2019 in 2024 or 2025, while we believe that what is needed is the change of our economic model, as well as the wrong tourist, having clearly described what we mean in our detailed program of five hundred pages now available in paper format. We stressed that as long as this is not the case, Greece will be driven from one bankruptcy to another, which obviously must and can be avoided, since Greece is a rich, multiplely gifted country - we have said so many times - with great potential for development in specific sectors. Our country is suffering from governments! I'm afraid so. There is, of course, a reference to the very important area of health tourism, which we also have in our programme as part of the alternative forms of tourism of higher value added, where as a state we have enormous competitive advantages. As far as other activities are concerned, we cannot see how our economy will change, and it is certain that liberalisation and deregulation will result in losses for the middle-income classes and small entrepreneurs. In any case, the proposals of the bill come from the troika - from the institutions, as it is said - as is seen from its constant references to the 8th and now the 10th evaluation, where, among other things, it decided that our public debt is sustainable, despite the fact that there is not even a serious economist on the planet that believes it. As stated in the 10th evaluation, secondary legislation has been delayed, but will be completed by September 2021, assuming that other draft laws on allegedly simplification will be followed. In addition, the troika seems displeased on the same page, a tenth page on the fact that private education, which was in the previous set of laws, has not been included, but has been excluded since in that public consultation in January it received seven hundred thirty-two negative comments from the eight hundred two as a whole. The troika, however, says - the troika is ruling, which is why I am constantly mentioning the troika - how the private education arrangements will be re-established by September, when we are waiting for them together with the other reforms that we heard yesterday that the government is preparing, while the surpluses are planned in 2023. Continuing, for the purpose of this licensing framework, the integrated information system for the exercise of activities and control should operate. All previous assessments, however, referred to the delay in its procurement, and the 10th shows that there are no longer any obstacles. It was selected on 11-5-2021 and will be installed in thirty-four months after the contract was signed. We asked who the supplier is and how much he would cost, since he did not mention the cost of the State General Accounting, but neither did any significant cost or benefit from the bill, but neither did we get an answer here. In any case, with the current dismantling regime, in conjunction with the working draft adopted, and also with the bankruptcy law - abortion and the return to surpluses, there is a very difficult future for the Greeks - we must say it because we want to be honest - especially for workers in the service sector, since they will freely negotiate with employers on individual contracts in a economy of a million thousand unemployed. If they can ever benefit! Furthermore, apart from the authorisation procedures of Part One, the draft law includes - in Part Two - a number of other regulations and amendments, such as for providers of manufacturing and business activities, for the development of business parks of individual large units, including those of supply activities, as well as individual amendments for the licensing of technical professional activities. In addition, it includes provisions for the audits of the IORP in respect of electronic shops and counterfeit products, for the validity of acts representing legal persons and companies, for the status of complaints and penalties for cross-border transactions, for building permits, procedural arrangements for the National Development Programme, for the administrative and wages of the Industrial Property Organisation. Finally, in the third part there are some individual amendments, such as another extension for pandemic antiseptics until 30 September 2021. Another extension! These extensions have become really funny. Every three months we have one more extension while we said from the outset that there is no need to repeat them, since the pandemic would certainly not last for only three months. By the way, the extension, the extension of ethyl alcohol was probably forgotten, unless it is finally produced in Greece, let us hope that the Greek Sugar Industry is being closed down. Finally, there are also provisions concerning the resolution of disputes in intellectual property rights as well as public contracts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In any case, we have not seen any developmentist logic, but if there is or has said anything like this, the troika would very much like to be informed of what its objectives are at last. We don't understand them. In addition, we will refer only to Articles 3 to 10, which are funds added to SYRIZA's Law 4442/2016 with activities that are ‘simplified’. While each one is divided into columns where we have defined activities in some detail with SMR and others not, the supervisory authority, the notification procedure, sanctions, controls and the paradox. With regard to the activities that are being dismantled, we have the following in Articles 3 to 9: First, road assistance undertakings for vehicles and partners, schools for motor vehicles and motorcycles, schools for professional training, schools for the award of a certificate of professional competence for drivers of passenger and goods vehicles, autonomous dietary offices and multivalent dietary units, aesthetic laboratories, tourist agencies and tourist road transport undertakings. As we have said, we do not understand how all this will contribute to development since there is already an overcapacity in these activities. On the contrary, they will destroy the accumulated value of licensed enterprises, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and, unfortunately, the middle-class one more time. We believe that high-value emblematic activities are missing from Greece, while in small businesses there is a great problem with the lack of funding from the cartel banks in some way and the cost of funding. The economy was maintained with the government's benefits, which cost about EUR 24 billion in 2020 alone, re-establishing our deficit and debt. It's money we didn't have, but we borrowed, and we could avoid it to a large extent, if we didn't make the locks mistakes and if we didn't give as much money as recently as "FRAPORT". Our real situation will appear after the break-up of benefits while bankruptcy law will lead many businesses to bankruptcy, along with the ruins left behind by the mismanagement of the pandemic. Literally debris have left behind in our economy. In Article 10, the reference and interest to the thermal tourism of sea therapy is very positive, since it is extremely important as we in our programme. One after another is copied and sincerely rejoices us. According to a study of "DIANEOS" 13.6 billion can be added from well-being tourism, spa etc., a hundred seventy thousand jobs. In another more moderate individual study we submitted in the Minutes, the amount is placed at 390 million to 3.1 million additional visitors, but only for health tourism. Whatever the case may be, health tourism is important for the expansion of the tourist season and for employment in non-traditional tourist areas, especially in the midst of the pandemic where such forms of health tourism are considered to be favourable. Greece, due to the volcanic soil of many of its regions, has a variety of mineral and thermal sources, some of which are valued and others are not. A total of more than seven hundred thermal sources have been counted in Greece from which they are valued and visited about two hundred. Many of these are, of course, unexploited having ended up in the HIPC and the EBRD of the excess of foreigners, unfortunately without valuation and without a price. No valuation and no price, they were simply granted. These are the results of the PSI, of course. However, the abilities and performance of the hypertemia in promoting our Greek economic model are unknown, and we question it, much less since it is not subject to parliamentary scrutiny. In these sources, one can add the possibility of developing spa facilities for water therapy and heating, possibly by converting existing hotel units because of the crisis. Of course, we need a plan to do this and, unfortunately, the government does not have a plan. In any case, growth cannot be done unreservedly at the risk of public health, the tourism product and the international image of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u62	We shall now proceed as follows: I will give Mr Plakatakis the floor to present his amendment for three minutes. I'm going to ask if anyone wants to ask for clarification. Then Mr. Logiadis will have the floor, which will close the circle of speakers. And then the Deputy Minister will take the floor, Mr Papathanassis, and the speakers will start. Mr Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed amendment meets the needs of the staff of the Port House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u64	The amendment is number 950, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u65	That's right. The proposed amendment meets the needs of the staff of the Port Parliament, promote innovative uses in ports, extend the protection measures for seafarers and in June, and also provide for specific measures for sanitary shops, but also strengthen the port agencies from the measures taken to deal with the pandemic. In particular, the possibility is introduced to the junior signifiers and porters for educational purposes in the context of their practice to strengthen the port authorities as well as the port authorities. This is how we achieve two objectives. First of all, the port authorities are being strengthened with additional staff initially in the light of the beginning of the summer period and, at the same time, the teachers are now able to obtain the necessary knowledge but also the corresponding experience that will be useful for their future tasks. I would like to point out here that the compensation for the tests comes from co-financed European programmes. For the first time, conditions and conditions are laid down for the authorisation of floating platforms for area research purposes up to six hundred square metres. This makes it possible to use ports to promote innovative and new technologies. Also, as I said before, the scheme for the grant of the unemployed seafarers, but also the measure of the suspension of contracts of employment also applies in June. As are also promoted by specific possibilities for sanitary shops, in order to allow them to expand their space to twice as much as possible. We are talking about the sanitary shops that are active in the terrestrial areas of the port. If this is not possible, the corresponding reduction in the rent to 50% will be possible. I mentioned, beforehand, the possibility of strengthening the ports. Why have the revenues of port agencies been reduced? It is precisely because we have taken initiatives to reduce port charges. You also know that there have also been certain limitations on the activity of routes, so they have had significant losses in their revenues. Therefore, this regulation provides for the possibility of strengthening the port agencies which have, of course, lost a very significant proportion of their revenue in order to deal with the pandemic. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] It also rationalises the status of promoting and electing our seafarers in their trade unions. Finally, the public will be able to use space in land port areas for the disposal or placement of cables and pipelines to serve public interests and, of course, for the protection of public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in relation to the amendment I cannot say that we have many disagreements. I'll tell you where we disagree. In relation to Article 1, we agree that an advance is given for the movement of executives. However, Minister, what is being observed is that we have two years to become the Board of Transfers, with virtually all the services, in particular, in the Aegean Sea being managed by secondments and having a huge deficit in the organic positions of port services mainly in the Aegean Sea. The regulation for the pedigree signifiers of the pan-Hellenic examinations carried out by SYRIZA, we consider that it is very right. For Article 2, will you explain to us what the research aims are? Why are we talking about research purposes on floating platforms, but who are they? It would be a good thing if we had a clarification on this. As far as Article 3 is concerned, the amendment came too late. It covers June, but how much of the month do we have? We're done. With Article 4, you are effectively reducing Easter and Christmas allowance for seafarers who have been suspended. So it was on parole, they took less, we reduce their Easter and Christmas allowance. For Article 6, will you tell us what the amount of funding is? Minister, the first thing that your government and the HIAD did when you came to governance was to dry up the reserves - which had reserves - of the port agencies and removed all the reserves. This is the result of the policy you have taken since the first time. Article 8, Minister, is the most serious of all. We've told you. Is it possible to interfere with the operation of seafarers' trade unions? Where and how far, Minister, do you have a term of office limit and a cumulative limit in primary and secondary bodies? You had three terms, and now you're doing four. You obviously don't get the new president and the new composition for the WNO, which is why you're doing it. Stop playing games. If you want to place limits on terms of terms, put a limit on terms of terms on the Members and not on the trade unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Is there another colleague who wants to ask the Minister about the amendment? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u69	Madam President, however, this is not a system for the first six series to be interrupted. All strange things happen in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u70	It is all right, Mr Colleague, that the Minister will answer so that there are no questions and that we do not continue the process by constantly asking and interrupting. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u71	First of all, I understand that you do not disagree with Article 1. I would like to point out, however, that the transfer board has also been held and that the transfer board is going to be held. First of all, we changed the President-in-Office's order, what you have not done for years. I remind you very well. Remember him, about 4504 that finally was a law inapplicable. So we and the President-in-Office of the Council have moved forward and, on the basis of the new presidential decree, transfers will be made. That is why there is this slight delay. That's why. And of course, the Mitsotakis Government has implemented the new allocation of organic positions. They are a thousand five hundred seats, nine hundred of them will serve the port authorities of the eastern Aegean. Obviously, we will go according to the new distribution of organic positions. Thus, transfers will be made in accordance with the new presidential decree and in line with the new distribution of organic positions. Now for the issues you have raised and for our seafarers, obviously and we have supported our seafarers all this time, as we further supported the ferry companies. Because this government, with EUR 85 million, has strengthened a very important branch of our economy, ensuring continuity between mainland and island Greece. And, Mr. Santorinier, we're not interfering with the naval unions. We streamline the framework and status of their elected representatives by increasing the terms of office from three to four. We're not doing anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u72	Minister... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Comrade, please. The Minister has heard you all the time you've been talking. Please listen to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u74	In any case, therefore, the government with concrete actions and decisions supported both coastline and maritime organisations throughout this period, ensuring also communication between mainland island Greece, which was not self-evident. And, of course, we have also supported and strengthened the operation of port agencies which, due to specific initiatives that I have mentioned, - a reduction in port fees, so, by extension, the revenues of port agencies and also a reduction, obviously, from the approaches of the ferry companies - had reduced revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Minister. The reason is the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Logiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. The current draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment consists of four parts, where the fourth relates to its entry into force. All chapters in Part 1 shall be defined as the competent authority for the purposes of the checks of the provisions of the region concerned and its competent departments. The regions and municipalities, however, do not have the potential to take all of these actions, as the mayors of my prefecture, Heraklion Crete and the Region of Crete say, although the region has the highest absorptions of programmes throughout Greece. They do not have the necessary resources, the necessary staff, the appropriate technical and legal services. We know that you will entrust all these projects to run them, organise them, carry them out private businesses, private companies. Because, basically, you have degraded municipalities and regions rather than upgrade them. Your draft law is, as the Minister has said, a Memorandum of Understanding, a Memorandum of Understanding. However, it is not in line with the practices of the other Member States of the European Union. For example, in Article 13, paragraphs 1b and 1c which define the age of twenty-seven for the use of tourist buses anywhere in Europe or in construction countries such as Germany do not apply. There is no such age limit for tourist buses. Tour buses spend every year by technical control and are considered appropriate or inappropriate. So, in essence, you support the big merchants, importers of tourist buses and not the small family businesses that are also the backbone of Greece, as the Vice President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce said in our committee. And further, the time, the Timing, you bring these settings is wrong because of the pandemic, the huge crisis and the vertical drop in tourism. If the tourist buses are withdrawn because of the age limit - as set by your draft law - many small businesses will close and the small ones will die and the big ones will become even bigger, just as the pandemic figures show us that the lanes and social inequalities are constantly expanding. This will succeed in your plan. That's your plan. A few and large instead of many and smaller, a concentration of wealth in the hands of a few. So who do you actually make it easier to invest? Only the very large, as Article 29 states, which enables large individual units to remain or be established to be expanded without restricting them, that is to say, for example, to be developed in off-plan areas, 'NATURA' anywhere. Article 28 goes further and gives the possibility of exceptionally building industrial buildings and overcoming the exploitation by volume of the land. It is, however, contradictory and misleading that an enterprise can itself constitute a business park. How big will this operation be? Colossus? Article 30 concerns the development of a business resolution park in the area of Viotia Winery. But it is also the resolution and the extension created by this article. It's not a resolution, it's a burden. It burdens the environment, reduces the uses of land to the detriment of the primary sector and creates as huge magnet and attracts further inequalities between the centre and the regions. Is there an agreement between the municipality and the citizens? Mayor Tanagras didn't answer us about our question. In its position, however, he said that the region - I read just - is 'unregulated, industrial area'. But who has ruled over all these years for this region to become anarchist? The New Democracy, the PASOK, and finally SYRIZA. Two other points were highlighted by the private bodies in the committee. Firstly, the entity, the investor, who is obliged to gather the necessary documents and to keep them together with the evidence of submission, must submit them by means of the notification on the operation of the investment and not co-operate them as set out in the draft law. In this way, all supporting documents are prevented from entering each investment area by persons or undertakings who do not have the minimum qualifications and conditions by creating unfair competition, destroying healthy businesses and workers in them. Secondly, the competent supervisory authorities should carry out audits and not as set out in the draft law that the authorities can carry out audits. This contributes to the proper functioning of the market and to the fight against the illicit trade. He says the Vice President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce - I read exactly - "if the state wants to hit the paramilitary, the sale of a product and tax evasion, in time, however, we have not seen such a decision yet". I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. As MERA25, we stress that if you really want to facilitate investment, you must abolish overtaxation and the very high rates of direct and indirect taxation that have been imposed on us with the memoranda in order to achieve the unfavourable primary surpluses. But that requires political will which all three Memorandum parties, New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA do not have. Another blocking factor for investment, which, as you say, wants to facilitate the draft law is the lack of liquidity. However, this lack of liquidity is about small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have access or find it difficult to raise capital to invest, while few and very large can always find funds and funds for investment. Other suspensive factors are the laws that change every three and a little even with retroactive power and the failure to combat unfair competition. You must combat these in order to support investment. In the committee on 18 June at the second hearing, the majority rapporteur, I read - 'I think, therefore, that in the process of processing comments and points to better lawmaking will be taken into account'. And I ask: What remarks and points of view have you taken into account? Apparently no one. You have now brought a number of amendments back to the last minute. You have also cleared your rapporteur who has given you a chance to correct some things. I would also like to point out that you should consider the proposals of the National Disabled Persons Federation as they have been tabled to us. The Minister said to the committee on 18 June that this law is 'closure' - I am reading just - 'a memorial cycle, a series of Memorandum obligations that began in 2016. Your ministers did the same - referring to SYRIZA - "Your ministers made the first cycle, I did the second and third cycles. They also made joint ministerial decisions as we did, because the model is exactly the same." That's what he said. It's honest. But you compete who will make more circles, who will sell Greece at a more opportunityal price, who will simplify the sale. SYRIZA made a circle, you're doing two cycles, you're all voting in favour of it, congratulations on your effectiveness. The Minister mentioned communism and capitalism, both extremes and we all know, of course, that the Minister comes from one end. Among these extremes, however, there is also the path of realistic disobedience that the Mera25 advocates. You see the bodies who spoke about this Memorandum of Law, themselves asked you for control and assistance from the state. The Minister said about state power, about the imperium of the state which, as he said, is based only on three things: his monopoly on legislative power, his monopoly on executive power and his monopoly on judicial authority. That's right. However, this requires a clear separation of these powers, which unfortunately does not exist, is not the case and is precisely this cause of the whole evil, of the whole complexity, of corruption of interdependence and of legitimate interests. In addition to this, private colossians are above the state, they are stronger, stronger in the state, below the common that Americans say. The Minister also said that when he became State Secretary for Development and Competitiveness, "I" - he said - "then I thought the most memorial MP." Cynic, raw, real. The Minister again mentioned the dear method of demonization, and that he was responsible for everything and I read exactly "and indeed Mr Varoufakis in February 2015 the first law he passed was against value added tax on the Aegean islands. It's such a proud negotiation we're talking about, this way against the troika we're talking about. So, a tax was touched by Varoufakis and he was upward. Varoufakis, the Minister of Finance in the House, did not bring a tax down. So, nice theories now, what they have said." To have political confrontation and ideological differences within the framework of political culture is desirable and is the basis of democracy. But the lie, the muddity, the misledness does not find us and does not agree with me, and I will not go along with it. If you want to correct what you said in committee. I will only submit two relevant documents to the Minutes of the House, from which it appears that Yanis Varoufakis did not only increase VAT, as the Minister said in committee, but instead tried to reduce it. Every citizen can enter the internet to search and read about Varoufakis, VAT and whatever he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Papathanassis, has the floor now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are calling on to vote on another development plan. It is a project which, like many other projects that have been voted on in this House, brings these elements to the point that we can give to entrepreneurship, investment and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs the opportunity to try quickly. It is therefore a plan to simplify the procedures for carrying out economic activities. It brings arrangements for productive activities and in general other arrangements to assist processing and industry. Up to now this government has been well closed two years since July 2019, it has brought together and voted a hundred and eighty-seven draft laws that have been made. This alone demonstrates the great intensity and desire to reform and continue to reform the state so that it makes the part of entrepreneurship attractive, not only for the domestic market but also for the international market, and later we will see and how this picture has changed outwards. So what this draft law brings is simplification. What does it mean to simplify? It means acceleration. What does it mean, acceleration? It means that the small professional, who to date had to wait, had to spend money, had to find himself sometimes in - what I say - a deadly hug from the public, can release his powers and much faster he starts creating. And what does it mean to create and work? It means that I have revenues for the state, I create jobs, and I find a productive path that helps and supports society and the economy. This is why the licensing framework is simplified for economic activities, such as roadside assistance, driver schools, theoretical training centres, dietary offices, aesthetic workshops, tourist agencies, tourist businesses, thermal treatment units. But there, where the state needs to come and check before it gives its approval, it keeps this procedure for the state itself. Here are schools and vocational training centres for the award of a certificate of professional competence. Here too, we need to separate and understand what notification means, simplifying this notification from approval. I repeat, the state will not lose the ability to control at any time. And, of course, it does if these companies have complied with the rules so that they can start and operate in accordance with the law, according to the laws and according to ministerial decisions. Therefore, at any time, the state chooses when it will check and, of course, impose the relevant sanctions if the measures and rules have not been complied with. And how is it chosen to go to a simple notification? It shall be selected from a risk control. What does that mean? In practice, it means that if a process is low-risk, then it can also be started along the way to carry out the relevant checks, if and if it is determined by the statistical sample, but also by complaints. You know very well - we have had a debate here, Mr Katrin, because you have questioned the functioning of the EMCDDA and at some point we will bring you the information that we keep to you, we have thousands of checks every day. Of the seventy thousand checks made daily, in the midst of the pandemic, a piece also relates to these functions. There is also the 1520 centre that the citizen can denounce any procedure. Regarding the arrangements that are coming for manufacturing activities, you know very well that Greece is currently falling short of the European Union average, about the involvement of manufacturing and industry in GDP. We are therefore around 1.5%, when the average of industrial and manufacturing participation in Europe is 15%. The goal set by the government and the Prime Minister is to reach 12%. Let me just say to you that every 1% increase in industry's share of GDP means, in essence, 100 000 jobs. And since we also see from development law that, above all, regional aid is going to the region, the majority of these positions which I now speak to you, that is every 1%, 100 000 jobs are going to the region. And you realise how important it is to create better paid positions and more surely, more stable positions in the region, which also create conditions for our young people and young people to stay in the place they are. So what do we do? We simplify the procedures so that these processing activities can start very quickly, be able to operate without delay, because every month of delay can also mean dozens of jobs very critical to our young and young people in the region. Support continues with modern versions, such as the supply chain industry, which is a dynamically rising sector. And I want to tell you, with regard to the conditions prevailing in manufacturing and industry in the 60s-70s, the placement rules change completely, because you know that both smart specialisation and automation and artificial intelligence create conditions that require different spatial features, but also different rules so that these businesses can function. That's what we're doing. We give them the possibility of exceptionally taking these provisions into account, so that they can operate under modern conditions. Next: what does business parks of large individual units mean? It means that they can, because you know very well that they run spatial planning, industries to set up their own business centres. And this is very important because a manufacturing industry when it creates and has the space to set up a business centre is obliged by law to have the environmental conditions, those that are usually not necessary if nothing of a business park has been designated. So this is very important and we will continue to do so. Clearly what we want is to get to some point so that we have a national integrated development plan for business parks. We are working in this direction. Until we get in that direction, we must continue to support these large units, so that they are in line with the relevant legislation. The next thing we see coming to development law is the possibility of installing and relocating industrial units into old industrial buildings and shells. Here we have to say that we have experienced a number of times, which perhaps in a bad way the development laws have created these industrial shells. So we come here to see the whole picture again and say that those who are mainly in the region must start operating again. We therefore enable them to be exploited and we will see it coming into development law as well, so that we can give the incentive that an industry can take these shells, which so far have been abandoned, and give them life again. At the same time, this draft law provides for the extension of the temporary authorisations of professional laboratories with low nuisance activities, precisely because the General Urban Plan has not been completed and it is expected to be approved. So it's in the right direction. I would like to note that all these provisions are designed to simplify procedures and make the environment more friendly to the simple, small professional. Because, as you know, gentlemen of Anti-Population, 99% of businesses in Greece are small and medium-sized enterprises. So these laws - and I want you to understand that - aim precisely to support these small businesses. The possibility is to impose fines by the IEMEA, the inter-market control unit via electronic stores. The DIAMEA expands its activity and does an amazing job. At the same time, for IPCEI, the important projects of European interest must say that in July 2019 we found a Greece that did not participate in any of these important projects of European interest. We have achieved five - since these are one of the main projects, which will run for the next few decades - to convince our European partners to put us in this work, which is 'Bataria'. Therefore, we have entered the Bataria as a peer and have already participated companies in this part, in this closter and, at the same time, at the same time, now as a government, at 'a lot', we have put our country into microelectronics and hydrogen. Therefore, we have developments there too and there the invitations from the Ministry of Development have run and we have great interest and, indeed, we see companies, technological - if you want - potential champions to participate in these projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude in a moment, Madam President. So, ladies and gentlemen, despite the unprecedented health crisis, we must say that industry and the processing have kept product flows in our country alive. There were no deficiencies, because the supply chain also kept the flow of products alive. We had no shortages in Greece, as was seen in the shelves of the major European countries, such as England, Germany and France. You'd see they were trampled there. Here in Greece there was no shortage, precisely because the government took care to establish a process in which it recorded all the products and we could see in real time where there was a specific shortage and with this system we were able to ensure that there was never a shortage of shelves in the shelves. The fact that Greece has tolerated the fact that the government supported the real economy with 40 billion and continues to support it in the relaunching phase is not just us. They don't say that the means you're referring to, gentlemen of SYRIZA. From the recent Eurogroup I would like to tell you that all the main statements made were in favour of Greece. In particular, the official Eurogroup communication spoke of reforms in the midst of the pandemic. That was the official announcement. The President of Eurogroup, Mr Pascal Donahou, said that the positive news for Greece is the recognition of progress in our country. Commissioner Gendiloney spoke of reforms at a difficult time for Europe and Greece did and ran very quickly, while ESM Director General Regling spoke of major reforms and economic reforms in the midst of the crisis. However, because things should not be left unanswered as to where our country is, within two years of the taking of government by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we must say that the Greek economy, while it was a flat in the fifty-eighth place, has raised twelve positions and is in the forty-sixth place. In the midst of the pandemic, the government has not been closed two years, and we have taken up twelve positions in competitiveness. This is all about the work that has been done, about the reform work and the passion of this government to be able to create a different Greece, a entrepreneurship-friendly Greece, and, of course, with strong support for social cohesion. How did we do that? We posted seven posts in the efficiency index. We were up fourteen in the business efficiency index. We have gone up and are already in the eleventeenth place between sixty-four countries in the adaptability of government policy. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is a product of hard work. The government has decided to change Greece, continue the reforms, it will not stop. So we're going on strong. We believe in the power of this nation, of people, of citizens, of our fellow citizens, of young people who are in Greece and of those who have left our country, and we want very soon with work and the creation of new jobs to bring them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now entering the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u80	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the Qualified Opposition to return to the area of consensus and common sense. Following the vote on the provisions on the protection of workers, following the refusal to facilitate the vote of the Greeks abroad, it is good to vote in favour of this draft law. Let me remind you again, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr.4442/2016, which comes to fill out the first part of the bill and for which SYRIZA is fascinating, was a Memorandum of Understanding and that the start of business with simple announcements was established for some categories of enterprises in 2014 by the then government of Samaras, largely exploiting the recommendations of the World Bank, as well as the OECD study on the reduction of administrative burdens that had been made in cooperation with the then Ministry of Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance in the Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Most of us now recognise that simplifying procedures to start a business is an important incentive to boost economic activity, not only because it improves productivity and competitiveness, but mainly because it helps create jobs and thus reduce unemployment. The bill simplifying economic activities extends to sectors such as road assistance, driver schools, dietary and aesthetic services, as well as to tourist services. All activities included, except professional training for the certificate of professional competence for transport vehicle drivers, shall be included in a simple notification scheme. This means that enterprises and professionals simply inform the competent authorities through a specific digital platform that they are starting this economic activity by collecting the necessary supporting documents, but without having to submit them to obtain approval. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that the activities simplified are very small and small. They therefore come to support the small and medium-sized businessman, the small and medium-sized businessman, the small and medium-sized investor. It is also important that entrepreneurship is facilitated in tourism, whether it is tourist agencies, road transport or health tourism, a special form of tourism with great scope for development in our country. In the second part of the bill, the facilitation of the licensing and placement of processing undertakings and storage and distribution centres and, in particular, their establishment and operation in business parks is distinguished. In short, on the one hand, the processing industry which creates more and better paid jobs is based, while on the other hand, incentives are being given to develop a dynamic sector in the supply chain infrastructure and services sector, which undoubtedly also contributes to exports and the role of ports, since we are a major transit hub, but it is also in the interests of regional development and the stimulation of local economies. Of the other provisions in the second part of the bill, I would like to focus on the forecasts of more effective supervision and sanctions for electronic stores marketing counterfeiting and counterfeiting, even when this illegal activity is carried out on a continuous basis through different online addresses. It is a positive step towards better consumer protection in the digital market especially after increasing electronic transactions due to the restrictions of the pandemic. To sum up, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a piece of legislation with different provisions, which, however, result from different roads in two common features. One is that small and medium-sized enterprises are being facilitated. The second is that industries with considerable potential for growth, i.e. processing, logistics, health tourism, sectors that can create more and well-paid jobs in the region as well. Apart from this, changes in rules and procedures, such as those we are discussing, serve other objectives relating to increasing employment and productivity from increasing investment to fixed capital and increasing exports until the continuation of the digitisation of public administration. It goes without saying that this effort to support business, investment and employment is permanent and multi-fronted. Much more is needed not only for the dynamic recovery of the economy after the pandemic, but also for the most ambitious goal in a decade to achieve a substantial increase in incomes, a significant improvement in the standard of living and well-being of the many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the economy may be on the intensive side, but for the New Democracy Government everything is going well and our country is on a development track. ELSTAT's figures may disprove you by saying that there is a huge loss of turnover in the first quarter of '21, which exceeds 650 million, the chambers may call on you that four out of ten companies are threatened with a padlock, but you see the country on a development orbit. Of course, your development initiatives are limited only and are exhausted in simplifying procedures, without any broader planning. It is not even your government's initiative. It is obvious that this is a continuation of the legislative initiatives of the SYRIZA Government, and it is also complementing Law 4442/2016. With two years late, then, you will also incorporate other activities into the favourable start-up arrangements. However, what we are seeing in a ready-made law is roughness, we are seeing failures, we have pointed them out to you in committee. For example, you refer to all the provisions in future ministerial decisions, while there are problems, for example, I refer to Articles 253 and 258. Incidentally, you know that the successful operation of the notification of Law 4442 is based on the existence of an integrated information system for the exercise of activities and control. The competition was opened in 2018 by the SYRIZA government and even today this competition has not been completed. So we see the limits, the extent to which your development strategy is exhausted, especially in the sensitive, most critical sector of tourism with all the sub-sectors. At the same time as simplifying procedures for the thermal sources, you have consulted the Ministry of Tourism another draft law, which legislates the development of thermal sources with anonymous companies. It is a bill, which, on the one hand, institutionalizes destination management organisations, but on the other, gives tourist development to private companies, once again directing local government, S.A. for diagnostics, S.E. for the shipwreck of Zakynthos, tourism S.A. for the New Democracy. Dive through S.E. the country's tourist wealth. Here we will be in the next few days to see them again in detail in the House. So at a time when the industry is in absolute uncertainty, only given uncertainty, you are confusing the world of tourism systematically. You've opened tourism and celebrated. You opened him up, of course, without tourists and without a plan. And we ask for months: where was the Ministry of Development and where is the Ministry of Development when the tourism business collapses when the small and medium-sized enterprises are desperately requesting assistance and direct support? What did you do when you remembered to show up? Peanuts and coupons. You gave 420 million of the 800 you have the option, choosing to strengthen the sector of accommodation with a meagre 5% irrational, horizontal regulation of the Thattsian type. You are once again getting the funding from small and medium-sized enterprises, tourist agencies and 2.5% buses. You've forgotten about the tourist accommodations or left them consciously outside. You have forgotten about maritime tourism and Mr Plakkatakis speaks to us in support of maritime tourism. Where is the Ministry of Tourism, when so many months should he have prepared the country with an operational plan for the opening up of tourism? Bowl on the border. These tails cost the tourism and the economy of northern Greece. Even the customs offices could not be strengthened. Where's the vaccination you're celebrating for? It's 33.6% in a tourism-based country. And we remembered to inoculate the employees in tourism after you opened him up. You think they don't see those foreign media? Yesterday, at the general meeting of SETE, the Prime Minister, instead of bringing together a coherent rescue plan for Greek tourism, was again limited to public relations. Good public relations, but generally without tourist policy, without a strategic business rescue? The only admission made by the Prime Minister is that he opened up tourism with self-test and his only commitment that EOT and Marketing Greece will happen. It directly refers the entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized tourism to the Recovery Fund, in fact, in the nails of the funds and banks' guises, while once again continuing the banks' tactics, because this is the Recovery Fund for the New Democracy. Very specific funds, many in a few, nothing for many, for tourism 0.65%. It's a plan that many dreamt of, you've given it to many people, but only the big ones will see it. Small and medium-sized enterprises will get nothing because they are forced - let them be honest - to mergers so that they can actually borrow in large groups or in packages. And of course there is a total absence of reforms of a democratic and participatory nature, a lack of transparency in the preparation of the national recovery and resilience plan. Where are the energy communities? Where is planning and funding for combating energy poverty and inequalities? The most critical time for Greek tourism you all prove, is that you have no plan. Every time you legislate, you simply confirm that no one is your plan for tourism but the service of very specific interests. No vision, no development strategy. Tourism needs genuinely development initiatives, those that will increase time, those that will share the tourist activity in the area, those that will strengthen the economic footprint on local communities and local economies that will sustain sustainable businesses throughout the ecosystem. This is our strategy for the development of tourism. But you have neither a vision nor a plan nor a development strategy, and the worst is paid by the sector of Greek tourism that has contributed to both GDP and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u83	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u84	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by addressing Mr. Papathanassis to convey something to Mr. Georgiadis. You are a co-legislator of Ministers with the Minister for Development, on issues relating to the extroversion of the economy, and I will therefore ask you to do something with the government. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, if you have responsibility for extroverting, you must consider that there is a need to support that export sector of the Greek economy which, due to lockdowns, has been declining. I have a specific request to report to you from the Panayialioli Association of Export Cooperatives in the raisin, where they have suffered a real descent that reaches the limits - and exceeds 40%. You are being treated equally, such as wine growers and wine producers. You're obviously out of your mind because the other similar charges you've protected them. So you're being treated equally. I would ask you very much, because this product is exportable and the exporting companies, to support them just as you support all the others in this regard. Mr. Undersecretary, you have been asked to the Ministry of Public Order after last night's misfortune with the seven Metropolitans, the lawyer and the police and the guards. Our people's revenge becomes fashionable with that kind of means, Vitriols. The only way to stop this at birth is to organize their disposal in a very strict manner. They are freely procured from the Internet. Perhaps the number of people who can supply them should be narrowed. They are far more dangerous than other means of violence and should concern you. With unfortunate John, we were all mobilized. But the phenomena are multiplying and yesterday's is very characteristic. Now we're going to the bill thing. I would be absolutely positive if you really brought the House a section on speeding up the process of entering the market and entering the common economy. I'm not saying you're not taking a step. I'm saying you don't take the step we need. You choose a method which also finds conscientious other parties - many, and ours - but whoever knows the issue from a legal point of view and from the market point of view understands you are hesitant. What the Greek economy needs, not to obtain the permission to set up a company, but to obtain the authorization to operate the company it wants, is the horizontal abolition of the so-called permits and not the partial abolition, which you are trying to do and the way you do it. He'll be very specific. I want, of course, before I dedicate my speech to the articles of the draft law, to address the SYRIZA rapporteur with courtesy and to say that I understand what this party says, and I have heard the previous colleague. I would like to point out, however, that I do not finally understand, after the end of the speeches I read or hear, this party is what it is. And, of course, because of the days, I am obliged to say that this two-speaker - and something more - of the nature of his positions explains that in Europe, in the European Parliament your party belongs to the GUE and your leader is an observer, he is constantly seeking to be an observer in the European Socialist Party. What are you two of? You find and do, but this must first be stopped by you, before we take our measures, and we, when it comes to time, because the draft laws, the regulations, the directives that the European Parliament, our party, the party to which we belong, vote or vote against and you go almost always opposite. How is your Chief an observer to us and your MPs voting on the contrary? It's a question you need to solve. The mess doesn't favour anyone. I say this because I have listened to you and read you to be quite aggressive to the government - and you are doing well - but at the same time, to vote, a contradiction I have seen and to work to describe you. It's good for the citizen to be informed of what we think. Now let's get to the point. Who, Minister, will say no to speed up an authorisation and to the criterion you set out? I inform you, I collect the certificates, the documents that the law defines, and at some point I'm controlled. And my control is not superstitious, that's what it is. The notify business you're talking about is that control is repressive. You're talking in two months. I imagine you'll be very happy for those who aren't legal. But the lawyers had to tell you that the courts and their administration were writing their shoes in their old days. He considers the deadline to be indicative and will come whenever he wants to do the check. So the check can never be done. The question of legal, judicial and financial matters is as follows. If anything happens in the meantime, who's to blame? The proposal which could have been flesh and bone and could have been "walked" immediately is whether it was controlled by an accredited private sector auditor, who would have the relevant accreditation by the legal association, the medical association, depending on the subject. This, Minister, is the alpha and the omega, because the check will also be done, and when the check is delayed, it will mean that the certification will be removed from the staller and you will have a quick answer not to find you the wrong of removing your licence after some time. Because as you have put it, without having defined exactly who controls the verifier in law, I understand that, in practice, similar phenomena will be created today. Everything will seem to be going fast and everything from one point to another will be delayed. And that's very serious. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Second and last, because I don't have time. On this matter, I am impressed by the years I have been in politics, and I hear that Parliament's permit laws are coming from all parties and from my own and from SYRIZA and from New Democracy. In the Samara-Venezelou co-government, Mr Hatzidakis had abolished the permits. Nothing has been removed at all. I was present with Mr. Xydakis of SYRIZA in a lecture, where we both said the same thing about sanitary shops. SYRIZA brought law, nothing happened. You take a step. This step, however, as it is structured legally and economically, I am sure it will surprise you that it will not go any further. What could he do - and with this I close - the legislator and the government that is being proposed? Instead of entering into the case-file - because here with the draft law all activities are not covered at the level of the economy - you would make a regulation, a universal arrangement, which would stipulate that I undertake to assume responsibility, after having informed you, you say so. Information attestation will be an enforceable administrative act, I will have a private auditor - I have already developed them - and it will not be excluded from the way you exclude them from health-related economic activity. What does "health related" mean? With health, in close sense yes. You can't have a hospital with a repressive control, but can't you make a cafeteria? You can do it. You can't make a medical center or a diagnostic centre without preventive control. Besides, nobody's been checking the diagnostic centers for twenty-three years. Anyway, not that, of course. That's where the check will be superstitious. But you can open a wide-ranging shop of health interest. What's that supposed to mean security? To understand national security. General security issues are raised by everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u86	I heard Mr. Georgiadis. I take the floor in his speech to say that it is unworthy of what he said, that, where something needs to be done beforehand, it will precede. So the situation will continue as it is today. That's what he said. Yes, but the reasons he pointed out are so general, that they may relate to other than those regulated by your law, all other economic activities. Therefore, if I combine these, Madam President - and I have finished - with Mr Karamanlis' famous law on speeding up public procurement, which was a key law on the flow of money on the market from the Recovery Fund, which will be subject to over four hundred modifications under the Spirtzi Act - after all certainty I say to you - then the basic tools for speeding up the economy, when the pandemic will leave us - we hope this time, of time - and it will be possible to see what the problem of Greek society and the Greek economy is, the tools that you have now had to have worked out and to have established will not exist. It's simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u87	And I thank you, Mr. Colleague, there will be no gaps and we will enter the second cycle with a natural presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u89	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u90	I heard Mr. Loverd's speech. I think it was right to refer to issues relating to the procedure to be followed for the opening of a profession. It is understandable what you said about the indicative dates. But here we have to do, Mr Loverdos, with very small businesses, companies which are initially characterised as low-risk, and can therefore start to work. We do not want to burden very small professionals with an additional cost of certification, which even with certification, and with those activities that start with disclosure, so otherwise the state is able, not only by one body, but by more than one body, to check them out. Clearly, difficult cases of increased risk remain in the authorisation. However, I keep your point of view of a project that can be certified at the start, but not those activities, because they concern 99.9% of very small professionals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, do I have the right to speak from the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u92	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u93	First of all, I very much appreciate that you have reacted and thank you very much. However, we may not have come to an agreement. I did not say that what you regulate poses risks to the market, that they are small activities that do not pose risks to the economy or any kind of risks, and that is why I am sceptical. On the contrary, I'm very positive. However, I said that this should not only concern these small and limited activities. This must be universalised, especially when it comes to tourism. In fact, in this respect, Mr. Secretary, there have been proposals that have long been made in other countries, but also thoughts in Greece, both in legal and in diverse magazines. You could have asked. Okay, I'm not saying ask me. I remove the fact that I am almost an expert on this matter. But I did not. I said 'why you are limiting it' and I added 'why you refer to an administration that will do audits when you know it will not do them in the deadlines you have set'. I tried to be creative. Our party says yes, it has no reason to say no, but I tell you that your attempt is too limited and will not thank you for the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. We're entering the second circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms, the reduction of taxes and the simplification of procedures for the exercise of economic and business activity were the three pillars of the New Democracy Development Programme. These commitments shall be kept in full within twenty-three months despite adverse conditions. The government takes initiatives with a strong reformist figure, which will be intensified once we gradually return to normality every day. It moved from the first few days to the reduction of HPAI and reduced twice the tax rate for businesses and the tax rate for dividends. It promoted legislative initiatives to facilitate investment and the pursuit of economic and business activities. Last night, the new medium-term financial strategy framework was submitted to Parliament. The main objective being set is high growth rates over the coming years, with an annual average of 4%. The achievement of this objective will lead to new tax reductions, the abolition of the trade fee, a new reduction in tax rates for businesses and natural persons. All this is anticipated by society and it is inconceivable that there are political forces that invest in disaster, which do not want reforms to go ahead, that development targets should be achieved. The draft law we are debating today is another step towards simplifying procedures for the licensing of undertakings. It is of particular importance that the aim of this bill is focused on small and medium-sized enterprises, individual businesses and professionals, in order to relieve them of endless and costly bureaucratic procedures. It is no coincidence that almost everyone in the consultation and hearing of the bodies had a positive assessment of the core and the provisions of this bill. The process of launching and authorizing enterprises such as road assistance companies, driver schools, tourist offices, road transport tourism, health tourism units, heating and sea therapy centres and others is being simplified. The scope of this bill is generally small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals. All these people so far had to be involved in a bureaucratic wave in order to start their business. Through the provisions of this bill, it ends the suffering of all these people. It ends in logic that function reliantly for the pursuit of professional and business activities. Through this necessary assessment, the Government proceeds to an important innovation: it simplifys the licensing procedures by subjecting to the notification procedure, without requiring the adoption of an individual administrative act. The fact that the authorisation procedure is simplified does not mean under any circumstances that the State cannot exercise control at any time. In assessing the level of risk, however, the government enables a professional to start his business directly, quickly and without administrative costs. The benefit is obvious to the small and medium-sized businessman and professional: It is relieved of the bureaucratic and financial burden and can immediately commence its activity. From there on, Minister, I would like to mention the need for further institutional intervention, given the Government's intention to put a new development law to the vote. To date there has been the great problem of delaying the adoption of an investment project under development law. A delay that could even be achieved during the two years, creating insecurity and uncertainty and functioning improperly many times. I believe, Minister, that this time should be shortened, that the process of placing into development law should be carried out at a faster time and within specific time limits. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another institutional intervention with a reform mark, and it aims to remove all obstacles and pathogens that represented weights in the country's development effort. All political forces must support this reform effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. By the way, I will officially state my support for the adventure that you had the day before yesterday in an obsessed attitude by a colleague who was embarrassed by you and this House, and I support him for the history. Before all, of course, I would like to reply very briefly to a comment made by Mr Lovers. I understand the difficulty of keeping the balance of the situation on the ground because of the new status it has gained as a candidate for PASOK, but in non-existent contradictions I believe that SYRIZA has nothing to answer. The fact that they are accelerating Opposition and respects what Mr Loverdos has said at times that the soul of parliamentism and democracy is creative criticism and vote to be the product of a fruitful dialogue, to what do we disagree? I don't understand. All I can understand is that, because of the circumstance and because of the claim, there must be a record for everyone. Mr President, Mr Papathanassis, I address you personally, before I begin with the rest, because it is what our people say 'you do not let us sanctify'. You agree with the amendment tabled by Mr Georgiadis a little earlier on the subject of sugar. Do you know her? Can you explain to me how within this amendment there is an incomprehensible new given given to the municipalities and regions? We are discussing an amendment concerning workers and the'sugar' burden on workers. And suddenly in Article 9 of the amendment, you who are defenders of good legislature, do you have the possibility of the municipalities and regions entrusting the Economic Commission, a lower body of the top organ of municipal and regional councils, to set up development companies, which we know are the tools, the vehicle for absorbing the NRP and the Recovery Fund? Are you kidding? Mr. Papathanasis, are you serious? Is that a way of making good legislation? You really remind me of Mr. Squirrelakakis, Aygeakis and Mrs. Bakoyannis, when these benches were transparent preachers against the bank lending of the New Democracy. Mr. Skeylakakis and Mrs. Bakoyannis were conquering Mr. Samaras for the excessive lending of the New Democracy. And where did we end up? We ended up in loan and wild. Is this the logic of the amendment, that, when it comes to repayment of employee debts, you give the Committee the opportunity, which is not representative like the municipal or regional council, Mr Bukhour, to set up development companies? And are you serious about legislating correctly? Look at that. Honestly, I have kept as a listener of what has been going on in this Chamber for many years now a need for me to speak from the heart, a need not to bind the texts and the speeches of free thought and free expression. And I really want to do that. I would like to do that, however, by finding the right climate. Because right now, these days, we've been living the abomination of vulgarity in public speech. Mr Adriane, I address you personally because we have developed a personal dialogue. How ruthless do you think someone can be, who even apologies for a lie can turn it into a reinforcement of vulgarity? And I am referring to the child who represents the Director of the New Democracy Press Office who, to apologise to the Friday, reiterated the vulgarity. How ruthless can someone be? And by apologies to repeat the lie. As far as vulgarity is concerned - because we have lived and collaboratively I say this - in the blossom of the private media in 1989-1990 there was a journalistic project: 'violence - blood - sperm'. Is that what we're talking about now? Is that what we reproduce as a political account? Yes, Mr. Bukkaro, that's what it was. That's what channel managers told the reporters that they're selling. And today we make this a political account in relation to what happened on people's pain and pain? I'm sorry. I'm sorry, he wants to be so lame when it's called when he's told to be understood. Otherwise, it's hypocrisy. We are talking today about simplifying procedures. Yes, we agreed. We are also voting in favour in principle and most of the articles have been developed by the rapporteur. But we have a greater responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. The world is changing, changing to something very different, our responsibility is different for both present and future generations. We must follow this road with new materials, with new thoughts, not with discounts of values. Simplification of procedures is a legislative process, rightly so. Simplification and discounting to values is another story. Where do we meet her? I'll tell you where we meet her and I'll say it very soon. I referred to the New Democracy loans. Why in the committee debated this bill, we had the cynical admission, in a theatrical way, of Mr. Georgiadis: 'You didn't know that? Didn't the citizens know that we have 340 million loan and an unscrupulous one?' Uh, yeah, the citizens didn't know and they didn't appreciate it the way they should. The nerve was not evaluated at the time it had to be. But there are more serious issues. There is free thought and fresh ideas about education. It cannot be recommended today in 2021 that the removal of societal and artistic courses is progress for education, and that this should be discussed on a Ministerial Council, and today we should be talking about simplifying procedures. You cannot mortgage labour, economic development. Today, once Mr Karamanlis, the Minister for Infrastructure, told us on television that the bus competition, the one who canceled along with the authority he objected to the SYRIZA competition, is going for eighteen months. And they're called unresectingly all these things. I do not want to talk about transparency and democracy. I will close with the major issue raised on the issue of the Agreement with Northern Macedonia, the Ambassadors Agreement. I understand that the patriarch of political anomaly in recent years, Antonis Samaras, has lifted the drums of war to the trend represented in the New Democracy. I conclude by saying that this historic agreement is a national task to improve, to observe. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives referred to in The agreement provides for solutions to the mistake of Zaev, for which he apologized, the 'Minister without a country' on the basis of the announcements made by the Grand Maximos. And this agreement, if we really want to understand patriotically and with a view to the future, is the effort of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to remain in cooperation with Greece. Because Turkey is caradic. But you don't care about that. You are interested in the permanent exiled in Kifisia playing a leading role in your party. Be independent, self-confidence. You'll help the country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Skulakakis now has the floor to put him on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to table a technical government amendment concerning the multiannual replacement obligations of Article 67 on the way in which multiannual approval is carried out. It also concerns the training of the staff of the Directorate-General for Budgetary Control, the EESC and the Secretariat-General for Financial Policy, as well as the staff serving as auditors of the National Transparency Authority. A short extension of time shall be given to the committee responsible for submitting an opinion on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work until the end of August. This is an obligation from the past, since 2018, of a monumental nature at that time. For the financial year 2020, the method of repayment of the debts of general government entities to electricity suppliers relating to electricity consumption accounts for the year 2018 and 2019 from the budget reserve shall be broadened. This is, above all, to speed up the payment of dues. The content of the approval of a multiannual obligation shall be redefined in a more detailed manner. That's what I told you. Finally, there are new time limits in order to complete the work of the Committee on Unhealthy Work and to submit the final opinion to the Ministers responsible - apart from the extension of work, we also have specific time limits - so that the required ministerial decision is adopted to determine the amount, conditions and conditions for the payment of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. The extension is necessary, as the issue is complex, and there are many requests from the bodies involved in the committee. I would therefore like to table this amendment. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skeylakakis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would point out specifically on the issue of dangerous and unhealthy work, that there will need a much more scientific work at a later stage, in order to support this allowance as much as possible in scientific studies. This is something that we will come and discuss at the same time as the adoption of the views that the Committee on the Changes that need to be made now. Because, from the experience of the work of the committee, we have many opinions that have been made scientifically, but we lack a central scientific study on which we can rationally base unhealthy and dangerous work on the public. And here we are talking not about the branches that have special wages but about those on the single wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u101	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. But I would ask you to be in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u102	Madam President, the Minister said it was a Memorandum of Understanding to complete the work of the committee. I think, Minister, that it is a moral obligation not only of the government but of the Greek state as a whole, to end soon. And I'm making a special show of health professionals who put back all the previous time. And you know very well that we as a Change Movement, have tabled six amendments to include workers in the heavy and unhealthy health, social care and welfare sectors. So, by reading the amendment and listening to you carefully, we can see that there are different approaches and the views of the chairman of the committee have already leaked, and the government rather than considering its responsibility towards the workers and has already taken the decision to include at least health professionals in heavy and unhealthy health, is constantly bringing amendments to the House which gives extension to the functioning of the committee and refuses to make a decision. This is a political decision. You will tell the committee 'find a suggestion' so that the ministers, who are writing here, make the final decision and not every three months to come and give us an extension to the House and do not take a political position. It is a serious matter and you should make it clear, Minister, that you are coming in September with specific decisions, with a particular view to the health sector that you know very well that he raised the country in a very difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u105	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. I heard Mr. Giannoulis' position. I thought I was at the election gathering of SYRIZA and not in the House on a piece of legislation, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u107	Come on. It would be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u108	In any case, Article 8 is an extension and Article 9 is an arrangement. I would like to tell you that the reason why you left the NRP in the situation that this government received with 26% absorption is because you did not care how resources would be used, Mr Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u109	Did they text you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u110	That is why we risked, and that is why there was a fight by this government, so that we could absorb the billions that you had abandoned and which the Greek people would lose. Now about the other one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u111	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u112	...you, SYRIZA, Mr. Giannoulis, are there any way to speak in the New Democracy that you've never had the courage and daring - at least once - to go and recall one of the make news you announce? On the other hand, the young man you spoke about, tweeted and posted and said: 'The announcement, the statement, is wrong'. He had the courage and the boldness. You never had - even once! - the courage and daring to withdraw one of the announcements you have made on make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u114	Madam President, I would just like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u115	Just for a second, Mr Colleague, why do we have to close down here and continue? The Minister is also waiting to get up to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Madam President. Honestly, I don't want to embarrass you. But, Mr Papathanassis, I would ask you to respect the fact that parliamentary dialogue - I am not saying this to make it to you because you are a non-parliamentary - contains means of dialogue that you cannot degrade them with your own possible worthy political code. Be a little more modest. No pre-election event at SYRIZA. It was my speech at the House Step. I have been elected a Member of the Greek Parliament. A little modesty, as a legacy from Kostas Karamanlis, you could have it. As far as the answer is concerned, which they probably sent you with a message why you do not know it, do you want to repeat it? That this particular, "I apologise for lying" is not one of the 12 thousand who were released by the Law of Friday. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u119	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. It will take the floor for the Minister to answer and after the Minister has answered, I do not think it is a question of starting such a debate, because the procedure must go ahead. Here, Minister, you have the floor. But please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u120	I fully respect Mr Giannoulis, I fully respect the procedure. I just said that today we were discussing a draft law and I would like to hear your opinion on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u121	You have tabled an amendment of shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u122	From that point on, however, I told you something specific: he withdrew. He had the courage and the boldness and he withdrew. And I asked you to show me an example from the SYRIZA announcements, one who withdrew a make news of the thousands you have announced so long. That's what I told you. That said, in essence, apologies and absolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u123	Then you didn't understand what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Metarakis has the floor on the amendment. Three minutes enough, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u125	I need seven minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u126	Seven minutes is too much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u127	The amendment is important and it concerns the Aegean islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u128	I get it, but it's too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to come to the House today on behalf of the Government to support Amendment No 947 and Amendment No 77, the amendment on the permanentisation of the island VAT system in the five Aegean islands, which lifted most of the migratory crisis, Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos and Lero. I would remind you that the insular VAT was a conquest of our islands, a conquest of decades, which both New Democracy and KINAL - to be fair - protected the difficult years of the memoranda, the years of difficult budgetary compromises and decisions. And then came SYRIZA and early in the summer of 2015, before the heroic referendum, when he tabled his own mild proposal to the institutions, that is, the retreats he accepted, included the abolition of the island VAT. Prior to the harsh, that is, a compromise of the third memorandum in August 2015. I come today to Stepma of the Parliament not only as Minister but primarily as an islander, that is to say, from the inhabitants of the acronym Greece who in 2015-2019 heard great words, but experienced the abandonment and undermining of his offer to the country in the eye of the migratory crisis. And finally, the third memorandum definitively abolished the island VAT across the Aegean Sea, giving the five six-monthly islands conditional and extensions. Today I speak to you from the heart of the Samiots, the Kos, the Lerius, the Mytilians and the Chiots, all those who were faced with the migratory crisis and paid the heavy price for the economy and tourism, but also for all the islanders who, with the exception of Chios, voted SYRIZA in 2015, and saw the abolition of their acquireds. In the summer of 2015, I stood in the central square of Chios in a demonstration organized by various organisations, and promised publicly to support island VAT by experiencing strong reactions at that time. Today I feel I am fulfilling this obligation. The legislation comes to finally correct a great injustice that brings broadly the signature of the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL. The interim solution given, the one that connected the six-month extensions of VAT with the congestion of the islands, reached a few days thanks to the decongestion of our islands, thanks to the recovery of control of immigration - at the end of the day. With this provision, which would apply if today's amendment were not here, on 1 July and Kos and Leros would return to the standard rate, as the structure of Leros currently has eighty two asylum seekers and the structure of Kos eighty. With the current legislation on 1 January 2022 in a few months' time, Lesvos, Chios and Samos would also lose the same rate, as the Chios structure currently has four hundred ninety-five asylum seekers, the Lesbos structure under five thousand of twenty thousand last year and Samos a thousand five hundred. Of course, further decongestion on these islands continues every week. And the total flows on the Greek islands last 12 months were two and a half thousand. The previous 12-month was sixty-three thousand. So the fall in flows on our islands is 96%. In May 2020, all the structures in our country hosted ninety-two thousand asylum seekers. Today the figure has fallen to nine thousand, so decongestion is about the whole country. Today's amendment is a collective success of the government. With the Prime Minister's mandate, the process of discussion with the institutions began, as the insular VAT due to SYRIZA became a memorandum obligation. I am very grateful to the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Margaritis Syonnas, and to the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikoura, who has successfully negotiated Eurogroup. Success of course today concerns a first battle, as the issue of VAT as a whole on our islands has not been closed. But today we can talk about a permanent reduction in VAT rates on the Aegean islands facing the pressure of migrants, without the measure being related to the overcongestion of our islands. We have all fought together a victorious battle for the stability of island businesses and economic activity. A battle to protect insularity from exogenous factors. A battle above all to put behind us definitively on the black days of the migratory crisis. With a plan and consistency we have significantly reduced the flows, the resident and the impact of the crisis on local communities. We are fulfilling our commitments to the islanders and reintroducing to our islands what SYRIZA has deprived them of, normality. We continue with a better tomorrow for our islands, for our fellow citizens and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. I sincerely try to understand why this motto and this type of talk today in the Greek Parliament on the amendment on VAT. Is it such a great success not to cover the islands for example? And why is this feeling that we are suddenly in a pre-election period? Well, I would like a little more serious political position on an issue that is truly huge. And all right, the government brings the amendment and we will obviously vote on it because it concerns the permanentisation of the five islands. But mercy! And I would like to make a comment on that. Yesterday many commemorated the work and offering of Andrew Papandreou. Because there was a misunderstanding by Mr Brutsis: the reduced rate of VAT on the islands began in '87 with a peak in the Dodecanese, only in the Dodecanese, making use of the status, the material that the European Union, the EEC, then, insisted that it should not be used for the Dodecanese. And it has done a hard deal with reducing VAT on the Dodecanese. Then it was again extended with the PASOK government in the northern Aegean and then the Government of New Democracy came and covered the Cyclades. But the New Democracy now followed the stern SYRIZA, which originally abolished the law and restored it for the five islands, for Lero, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios, according to migration flows and refugee residence centres. So the extension that it brings today - which is a self-evident act - simulates the reduction of VAT in these five islands. Even in this improved way, it's not enough. Everyone is rightly wondering: Reduced VAT in Kos but not in Kalymnos, Lesvos, but not in Lemnos, Samos, but not in Ikaria. Did you negotiate so hard and did not succeed in island Greece, which has an entirely different geographical and economic and developmental entity, to extend this simulation to the other islands, and not, for example, feel that the resident of Nisyros or Kalymnos lives disadvantaged to the inhabitants of Kos? So, okay, we quit and are we actually dismissing islands? Will we discuss some time in this House on the substance of islandism and what does it mean for any act of government, for any institutional or economic law, what does it mean to be island and who imposed it, and how did its constitutional guarantee come about? The positive effects, therefore, of accepting them, voting on them, but of not enduring the distortion of things. That's the first. Secondly, I will say a word from the debate this morning on the PSI. I think it was a conversation outside its historical context. I fully understand what Mr Tsakalotos said. It is the expression of a wish, however, that attempts to get the character of a critical rejection of the PSI. First - Mr Tsakalotos says - the PSI and the debt regulation had to be done and then the financial adjustment had to be made. Apparently, it's a theoretical placement. Because the events of that time for those who lived in them could not give the government, any government, to make the choice of priority after Mr Karamanlis' catastrophic four-year-olds, the choice of steps that should be taken to tackle the huge budgetary crisis that the country had entered. So for those who lived the facts it is not the Greek government that imposed the order. The reality of the economy is the one that imposed the order. And I'm glad Mr. Chakalotos recognized today that the PSI case was a positive development. For your law, Mr. Minister, Mr. Katrins, the other speakers of the Change Movement, said it all. I don't have anything special to suggest. I do not want to go into a procedure and say things that have been said by previous speakers. But I would like to take this opportunity, and since some communications were made yesterday by the Ministerial Council, to raise a broader issue which, in my view, is very important. Mr Mitsotakis seems to have set a central target, his summer central objective, which, in my view, is, in the middle of summer holidays, the complete degradation of the social state. Until some time ago, we had an imitation reform in the state, in taxation, in the finals, in the government, in the universities. The first bills of government all were in the nature of a reformist breath, supposedly, and that was nothing but fine things in my opinion and not so important for everything he said in advance and programming. But if so far there have been imitation reforms, the Prime Minister has chosen the time for summer holidays to do the real reforms, whether he refers to work, whether he refers to insurance, or he refers to health and the day after tomorrow to the universities. You have already planned a series of institutional drafts, which, in my opinion, have a fundamental objective at the time of privatization, the strengthening of the private sector in the face of all collectively, all forms of aggregation and expression of the Greek people's claims and views. This is the basic soul of the counter-reformation and the main objective that fits perfectly with the true ideological identity and position of the New Democracy and not the centralist and modernist and other structure. So I would like to ask a few questions about insurance. First of all, you will explain the contradiction: Mr Brutsis, yesterday he defended his own policy and, if you wish, defended the proportionality studies he brings and 'we will bring new proportionate studies'. He was proud to tell us that by 2060, the insurance issue has been solved. Now are you bringing in a new arrangement? What happened? Aren't we getting regressive studies? Secondly, the cost of transition to privatization of the subsidiary and the new system is estimated at between 50 and 60 billion. Who's gonna pay for it? Who's going to be a burden? What will it have to do with the economy and the imprinting of numbers? Thirdly, you are focusing on the new large supplementary pensions, resulting from the alleged over-performances of the capitalisation system. What markets? In Greece or abroad, which has a higher return on capital? How is the argument that you will feed growth when the contributions are invested on foreign capital markets? And fourthly, you are supposed to care for young people, and you are actually feeding pensions without a reflection and at the same time forming insecurity in the old. Both the issues of intergenerational solidarity and the issues of endogenous solidarity are disastrous. I think that they are the essence and basis of the counter-reformation. And I come to the last point, which concerns your strategy for the medium-term plan you tabled to the House and will be discussed next week. I would like to make two - three observations - because we will say that - because it forms part of a accounting logic that you have and of a policy and strategic development that does not overturn the traditional model and does not go to the country's productive reconstruction. Because they are based on speculation, such as the example of growth and forecasts in the medium term, and on the other hand, on issues relating to public and private consumption with other points, and we have optimistic targets which do not obey the logic of the country's current economic history and the crisis we are experiencing. I have a very different view and view, which is related to the country's productive reconstruction, and I am explaining: In the 1990s, huge projects were made in the country with our own government, the country's image has changed. There was no productive reconstruction, because the convergence programme and the achievement of the budgetary targets that were absolutely priority for the country to survive and join EMU led only to the major investment and major public projects that would give not only employment but also to the development of GDP. Today, the corresponding financial terms do not exist. There is a huge proportion of money, which could be used for real reconstruction of the country's productive model. However, the objectives, choices and priorities as they have described both by the Pissaridis report and by the government's proposal to the European Union for the medium term, and the issue that has to do with the medium term that you are now tabling in Parliament, are precisely proposals that do not overthrow the productive model. Do you know why? Because the country needs decentralisation to develop a different type. Because the country needs a productive reconstruction, which cannot be done with a suffocating central planning. Because public investment now needs to be directed around the development resources of each region. And that will not happen if the world does not start to leave the large urban centres again and go to the province, if people who come from abroad, do not spread to productive activities throughout the country, if there is no big development project in each region and around productive investments with added value. In other words, the financing of industrialisation and the development of the agri-food sector and all of this is not done either by orders or by the headquarters of the State of staff. They are made with democratic programming and by decision of local bodies and participation of the citizens and individuals you want to attract to investing. This is our fundamental difference with your medium-term plan. I therefore believe that this debate, which needs to be opened in the country, is a debate that should take place on a completely different basis and not on the figures and every time the Minister of Finance comes in and says 'I will now say to you sixty taxes that we have reduced, fifty measures that we have strengthened, 100 meters' and each time it repeats the same things and adds the new ones. This does not change the productive model or the country develops. And because it is a critical, historic opportunity for Greece to enter a new development path, think about it as early as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in particular in business time is literally money, people in business know the market, they know how difficult it is to make the decision to start an economic activity. The creation of even a very small individual enterprise requires months of preparation and organization for every detail, planning and study hours, anxiety, anxiety, running a lot. Different difficulties in the operation of the company are the confrontation of all kinds of current issues and are a daily concern for every businessman. It does not, therefore, need to be further charged by the state with complex bureaucratic and time-consuming procedures for establishing and operating. Entrepreneurs must be directed creatively to work rather than to red tape. Each step of simplification of procedures in entrepreneurship is a development step. Every time we support a company to start, consolidate and grow, we push the country forward, we help create jobs, increase income for citizens and their families, but also to create income for the state. What is the most tortureous word in modern Greece? The word unemployment. That's what we ought to do in every way. The state's close and effective cooperation with business, the creation of a healthy, clearly defined business and investment environment, is the way to a strong economy and society. It is important that we stick to this road, especially now that the country and the whole world begin to recover after an unprecedented difficult period that has tested all of us's strengths. But this much-needed development, which is always a goal and a desire for governments and rulers, does not come with words but with deeds. It is not enough to wish and it is not created with vagueness and announcements. You must seek and challenge it, plan it and implement it through concrete actions and initiatives. In this entrepreneurship is an ally. Entrepreneurs are not our enemies. We do not target them, we do not put them in the eye, as you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have done for four and a half years. We help them to develop, so that our own country can develop, and that is why every initiative, every step we take, has at its core entrepreneurship, investment, jobs. This draft law is not an exception. The country's obligations under the support programmes may dictate certain interventions, but they are changes with which we agree and are properly integrated into the general framework of actions by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to transform the development model and change mentality in dealing with the state to the citizen and the businessman. A characteristic and parallel example of the emergence of the digital transformation of Greece and the public in a central national strategy. No third party has pointed out that direction. It is a conscious choice that helps Greece to make a leap in the way the state works, in order to prevent rapid global developments. It is the background on which we are building a new relationship between a state and a citizen and a new development perspective. The contribution of the interventions, such as the current and digital technology to the speed of the authorisation and operation of small or large investment projects, will be a barometer for the recovery speed of Greece in the next period. The national recovery and resilience plan "Greece 2.0" is the big bet for the next few years that can shape the future of our children. But without strong entrepreneurship growth is not possible and without rapid procedures and an effective state, entrepreneurship is making it considerably difficult. That is why every process of economic activity must be clear, easily implemented for the trade and completed, of course, by ensuring the public interest at the minimum possible bureaucratic and financial burden. In this respect, the present draft law operates as a step-by-step step. By simplifying the conditions for the establishment and operation of enterprises in these sectors and the other arrangements for development activity, it adds another stone to the structure of the new Greece that we are envisioning. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot more to do, although we have not stopped working on it, despite the pandemic, in order to support business activity in the country, and that is absolutely necessary for us to do so again for our youth, in order to keep it in the country to work here, to prepare, not to seek its fate in supposedly other advanced countries, to give it supplies and security to start economic activity here together with the parents, together with the grandparents, to feel trusted, not to be afraid and to go away. We must create an environment of business and work where the young Greeks, the new Greeks, scientists and not just, whether they want to open a small shop or a big business, have the opportunity to make their idea easy, fast and to get out of the market by chasing their dreams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u135	Madam President, I am tabling the legal corrections of the bill to be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have asked you to know very kindly from Mr Mitarakis that he stayed in the Chamber a few minutes and I invited him to a parliamentary dialogue. He's the Minister himself, he could have a busy schedule. He said he should go. And I did not take the floor earlier when he tabled the amendment, to facilitate the procedure, and given that, Madam President, I would speak after two speakers. We said he'd stay. He's gone, but I'll say five things like he's here. After all, Mr. Georgiadis is here representing the government. Why is it that the New Democracy, the government today, decides to extend - let us say just so that people understand - to reduce VAT on the five islands? Is there anyone who disagrees with that? Oh, no. But why does he make that decision? Because he can. He can do it. He has the ability. But why do you have to decide to reduce VAT on these five islands of Chios, Leros, Lesvos, Samos, Kos on the occasion of illegal immigrants? We don't really understand that. Don't move your head! What are you talking about here? That because the flows are falling or those there are going to be lost - it was percentage before - the rate, lift the measure, and I well do and bring an extension temporary - permanent - and I do it horizontally, 30%, without depending on the quota how many are, how many have left, etc. So I can offer this to my people, to my citizens, to Greek women and to Greeks. Why do I have to offer it to them, because I have put a rock in their lives, and I do not do it anyway, which is on the remote islands, which are on the islands that are very remote from Turkey? Why don't I do it to Evros? Why don't I support these areas as a state? You'll answer later. You will answer the rule of law and the state that supports Greek women and Greeks. Why don't you do it anyway? Why don't we support these people staying at their place, our Greek islanders working, giving them privileges, supporting our borders, giving birth to children, why are we going to go to demographics shortly? Now what are you telling them? Adopt illegal entrys. That's what you tell them. Because those who are there are illegal. If they were legal with their papers, they'd have found a job and they'd be fine, but they're illegal. That's what's going on. It's unbelievable. You are basically admitting the permanent structures. That's what you're doing, admit permanent structures. He was very touching, Mr. Metarakis. At first he set me up, and I say good for him. What did Mr. Metarakis say to us today? What is the result, Mr Mitarakis, of reducing the flow? Unfortunately, it's not because of Greece, it's Erdogan. Why do you say little decongestion of the islands? Will you ask us? Are you against the decongestion of the islands? Of course not. We are in favour of the decongestion of Greece all of these islands, not just of the islands. Because, Mr. Mitaraki, those who sulatsar in Greece take them from there and put them on the ground are the ones who raped a girl in the center of Athens in Omonia, twenty-five years old. It's them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u138	That's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u139	It's them! Three Pakistani and an Afghan! I wish you could defend yourself with such vigour and the Greeks as well, Mr. Zachariadis, but you're worshiping there, three Pakistani and one Afghan has raped a little girl in Omonia. What are you going to tell the kid's mother? Go out and tell the mother of the child, three Pakistani and one Afghan. What are they? You're right to come in? Lawyers? European nationals? Greek citizens? What are they? Do your hands like this, it's all right what you want to do. People see you and they hear you. We saw your mess of the islands and Greece over SYRIZA. Get dogs salt, whoever wanted to get in. We saw it. Don't scratch now, sit there as SYRIZA. You are fine, silent, you vote 'yes' in all the bills, hand - hand go, do not worry. You're the best anti-government he's ever had in history. You're the best fighter ever. Is it a disgrace? Isn't that a fact? Have you gone to Omonia to see what's going on? Where are all these people? These are Mitaraki's, from their islands, they went there. But they solved the problem underneath the carpet, I took them from there I put them there. That's not how it works. It's wrong not to motivate our islanders because we've loaded them with a huge problem and they've lost their lives, their property and everything. After all, all the islands must have reduced VAT, the remote islands, our Evros must have favourable and reduced taxation arrangements. That's what we say. Not because I've planted them there permanently, I'll reduce their VAT. It had to be done anyway. Let's go down. You know, it's very interesting and our day started well. Our day began very well with what was said this morning about the PSI. It is interesting to hear those who in one way or another participated in the country's bankruptcy. I am addressing parties and not by name to MPs. Their parties have somehow participated in the country's bankruptcy. So this poor country didn't go bankrupt by itself. Some people ruled it, some made mistakes, some offered more, some less, some charged it. That's how it happened. To analyse now with an anniversary intent, after ten, eleven years of what happened with the PSI and say that the PSI is good, I think it goes beyond any sick imagination. Yes, the PSI reduced the debt by 51.3 billion. Sure. In exchange? The country's mortgage for the next ninety years. Yes or no? Yeah. With PSI, did our banks go bankrupt? Yes, sir. Did it cost us the recapitalisation of 60 billion? Yes, sir. So we went in again and were left with ninety years of mortgage. We have saved 51.3 billion, we have given 60 billion to recapitalise the banks. When you go up, Mr. Bukowo, say that. And tell us if you're a fiancée of the opinion of Mrs Sakellaropoulou and your Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, that the solution to demographics is these people, migrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u140	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u141	Oh, no! Mrs Sakellariou's tweet and an official Eurobank event!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u142	You're taking this off your head!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u143	Please! You'll be cleared here! You will be cleared up by the neo-democrats and you will say: "I am a fascinator of Mrs Sakellariou's opinion that says the solution to demographic is illegal immigrants. I'm a prime minister who says I'm an anti-anti-anti-anti-institutor, and I want these people to be smuggled into Greek society. I am an enthusiast of the opinion that this is a good agreement between the Ambassadors." Talk about it! Say it, make your position clear. And you're a hundred and fifty eight, you're many. Say it, everyone knows what she's getting into this life. That's right, Mr. Buquoir. At least you won't. Mr. Zachariadis, she's been kidnapped from Omonia. He lived a hell in Saint Panteleimon. The Afghan is still fleeing arrest. Are you going to tell me there are no Greeks? Of course there are! There are many Greeks. Too many! We're talking about this one. These people, how did they get in? What are they doing in our country? This can't be happening. And the same scene we had a few days ago in St. Marina. Six people attacked a woman and also made live streaming. You saw it, you saw it all on the news. And we're going to demographics. Is that how we solve it? Because this is all relevant. Well said Mr. Scandalidis, we will support all the islands. How do we solve the demographics? I'm asking again. Are you enthusiasts of the resurrected, very sad and outrageous statements made by the President of the Republic? It's unbelievable that this is the solution to the demographics. The demography will be solved only with the Greeks. But you, those who give birth to Greeks - we told you yesterday and you know it very well and have raised the issue high and colleagues of the JRC - such as the two hundred-five teachers, many of whom you have been letting them suffer since 2010. And what do people want? To work! You have them from outside ten years, from Diamantopoulou to Kerameos and everything that took place in eleven years, from 2010 until now. Two hundred and fifty families, polytens, give birth to four, five children, and we have them there. That's not how it works. Why don't you appoint them? Why are you punishing them like this? I'll close, Madam President. But I want answers for all this. And for Macedonia and for your friend Zaef, for the demographics and for the islands and for the permanent KYT. You will answer today, not as a parliamentary representative, but as a person, as a Member. I shall end, Madam President, on the issue of the freezing of the Memorandum with Skopje. I really don't understand. I know he's been in drawers for too many months. We know very well that you are in a difficult position - we are not discussing it - but we want you to understand that out there the world sees and understands. What does the Greek citizen now understand? You made fun of him once, you can't tell him again "I punish Skopje, Zaev because he showed bad behavior and he says he's a Macedonian, not a shirt, so I put it in the fridge to punish him". This is where the stones laugh. You did it for your own benefit. We're not talking about it now. You see, for their part, they keep nothing, and every time you give them the opportunity they will be violating this vile agreement. How about I put it in the freezer, get it out of the freezer? You also put your MP on the HR the day before yesterday, to say that it is good not to have the agreements to discuss now. And before a solicitor speaks, this afternoon you made the decision, they report your circles, that he will eventually enter the fridge for three months to know and to comply with Zafe, for what he did. If you really want and are with our own logic, which we have the clearest position, you are vetoing Macedonia's accession to the European Union. Do it to be believed. Otherwise, you are not believed by the world. Or you admit you can't and you lied. Everything else is details. We've been through this too many times. I will be here, as I am every day, too many hours to hear answers and continue our beautiful, intense parliamentary dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You will allow me to say, with all due respect, on the basis of what you said at the outset and, of course, on the occasion of the atrocious incident you have mentioned, that we must be particularly careful about the designations which may extend to an entire community.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u145	What did I say? Withdrawal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u146	You referred to an incident. You are absolutely right about this, but we cannot extend this and say that all refugees or all immigrants are people who...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u147	I didn't all say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u148	You described them as the way you described them. I think we should all be more careful. Mr. Bukowar, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u149	Madam President, I will use three out of twelve minutes and only speak nine minutes when my turn comes, if you give me permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u150	I'll give you three minutes and remove them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u151	Madam President, this place has paid very much for its codification, easy words and over-simplifications not only by occasional political forces, which, as custodians, are afflicting Parliament and the Greek people afflicting certain time periods of our three hundred years, but also by representatives of historical political forces who do not evade this tactic and simplistic form of 'government of 50 years, so you are responsible for the debt'. Of course we're in charge! But only for the debt, Mr. Comrade? If we are to blame for 50 years for the debt, we are also responsible for national integration, and we are also responsible for the fact that a Balkan country, a Balkan poor relative, is today among the European protagonists and all the powerful agencies, we are responsible for the fact that seventy years, in the history of this land where you live, there has been peace. We are also going for them! Let's go to the most important thing we've been busy today. Minister, congratulations. Everyone is voting for your bill, without any objections. And what simples things, it really helps growth. And from what I have noted in Article 1.1, this bill is primarily addressed to small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is why entrepreneurship in Greece is structured, because that is the case with Greece. That is why we have three hundred MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for the populists who say 'cut them'. Because it is an island country, because it is the regions. Because if they become one hundred and fifty, which the populists always support, citizens will never be able to see their MP. Before we open our mouths, it's good to think about what we're talking about. I shall then speak about the PSI, the insurance and the sugar industry amendment that the Minister brings, because we are paying for other experiments here. He does what he shows left, but then comes the Greek taxpayer to pay the farmers who were not paid, to pay the workers who were not paid, and so on. I mean, we're making the guys with the Greek taxpayer's money! That's what's going on. For VAT, Mr President - and I am addressing you not personally - we have explained to you very well about the island VAT that, on the Government of SYRIZA, this conquest has been awarded, assigned as a Memorandum of Understanding to the Third Memorandum. In other words, SYRIZA increased with his policy of migration flows and increased VAT. And the current government comes through negotiation with the institutions - because I want to tell you that the memoranda had expired in 2018, but the country entered a regime of increased supervision, which is why the interim assessments are made - and we have convinced our arguments that in these islands that accept this pressure, VAT must return to low levels and we are doing so! And the Minister told you that the reduction in tax rates not only for the islands but, in general, for our own government, it remains an open book, it is an open agenda. Because since we took over the country's governance, we have been constantly reducing taxes, and new tax cuts are coming. Let us understand, in this Chamber, all the same things. We may disagree, start with different starting points, but the facts are stubborn. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, I want the floor to make something clear about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u154	Wait a minute, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Comrade, you only have one minute, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u155	Yes, sir. Let's make it clear what you told me about the Minutes at least. I didn't slap or say about the whole world. I said about these four people. That's clear. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u156	It was nothing personal, Madam President. It was pure politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u157	No, no, the President told me something and I answer that. Come on, Mr. Bucoore!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u158	He's talking to me now, Mr. Comrade. It's about me, Mr. Comrade, please listen! You don't have to all yell!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u159	You're a lover of creative dialogue, don't be afraid!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u160	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u161	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u162	You don't always have to shout in the Chamber. Wait till you hear what he wants to say. He's answering me right now. Come on, Mr. Comrade, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u163	We have cleared up the first point because I really think I have had a duty and to the contrary that I respect you very much and know it as an institutional person but also as a person very much. We are therefore clear on this issue with the Pakistani people. Now it is very happy that we have heard from official lips that the New Democracy is responsible for the debt. That's good. You slowly started admitting. We're not zero. We have not said that those who have commanded this country have only done bad things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u164	We're a power of responsibility! We're not a power of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Bouquet, please! He's talking! Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u166	But did you say: to admit that we are responsible for the debt? We're on our way to debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u167	But is this a process, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u168	But we'll never finish like this if you don't stop talking like this! Please, I mean, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u169	I want the floor too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u170	Please! As you spoke and sat and listened to you all this time, you have to listen to yourself! Please, so that the procedure can continue. This is not the way to discuss it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u171	I'm within time limits, within my rights!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u172	This is not the way to discuss it, Mr Bukkoro, please! I gave you the floor, you spoke, he answers, we're done. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u173	He's out of line!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u174	Please, Mr. Bukoro. Do you understand how the procedure goes in this Chamber? Do you respect your interlocutor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u175	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u176	Okay, don't talk to him to finish his speech. Please! I gave him a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u177	He must respect the procedures too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Comrade, please. I think I know how to run the Hall and the Chair. Please! Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u179	Yes, Madam President. Mr. Buquoir, don't get upset. Calm down. You'll hear it anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Colleague, please very much in your position to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u181	I disagreed with everything he said, but in the heart I heard him, as we always do. We respect the procedures. We are taking the floor when the Bureau gives it to us and we are talking. Calm down, everything's gonna be okay. Let's go down. You did not understand what we told you about VAT. We have not said that you are wrong or that you have a more general VAT reduction on your agenda or programme. You're doing very well. We say that as a state, not as a government of the New Democracy alone, we should have made sure, for years, that these people have also been given premiums, that we have encouraged them to remain there, give birth to them, work there, and not work there, and not that evil has to come for us to do so. That's what we're saying. You were analytic - and I'm closing up with it - and you've answered everything. I asked you something. Are you fascinated by Mrs Sakellaropoulou's view that the future of Greece, the solution to demographic is the integration of these people into Greece? Are you empathetic to the opinion that the Prespecies Agreement is a good deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u182	Mr Bukkaro, just a minute before I give you the floor, I would like to make something clear. Please. There's nothing personal. If you want to answer the two questions that she has asked you - listen to me a little - she has good. Otherwise, I would ask you to continue the process because we do not have time. You've only got the floor for that for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u183	I do not speak personally and therefore do not respond personally to Parliament's Chamber. Politically, Madam President. I would, however, like to see the Chair restored to the classroom so that problems do not arise for various communities and nationalities when it comes to the first state ruler, for the symbol of the President of the Republic, to follow the same procedures. Because statements can be misinterpreted and state statements made, to create impressions. This is equally important. For VAT, what should we do? We are responsible for what we are saying. For what they understand or pretend they do not understand or are unable to understand, we are not responsible. And what did I say, Madam President? What SYRIZA granted as a Memorandum Obligation, namely the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT across island Greece, across the Aegean islands, cannot be taken behind the country because it is precisely a Memorandum and because we are under enhanced supervision. We have therefore taken advantage of the pressure on the islands to reduce it there, and this reduction in tax rates remains at all levels. That's what I said. Now, if some think they can easily create impressions, they seem to be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Georgios Arvanitis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time a bill comes to simplify various economic activities and procedures, it means that the previous law was incomplete. It means that we still have a way to go than really to facilitate the efforts, the lives of people who want to attempt. It means that we are still on the way from making Greece a truly philosophical destination and attracting new business. It also means that the legal framework of all these activities is unfortunately fragmented in a number of laws, and this in turn means that, despite good intentions, application in practice is unfortunately becoming dysfunctional and ineffective too many times, especially when a lot of them are referred - as in this bill - to future ministerial decisions and procedures can be simplified and certain bureaucratic problems solved, but short-term provisions and fragmented legislation are not good legal practice. Nevertheless, both our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, as well as the Change Movement in general, always have a positive and constructive attitude to all efforts to simplify and speed up procedures, especially when it comes to simplifying procedures relating to small and medium-sized primary entrepreneurship, activities such as those which regulate this bill for driver schools, aesthetic workshops, tourist offices, health tourism and heating centres, processing, activities of particular importance for several local economies in the region. They are activities that will invest time, energy and money the average Greek or even the foreigner who decides to come to our country and carry out such an activity. In short, it is the entrepreneurship of the middle class that has been so affected by the repeated crises of the last decade. However, these people and the areas of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship are not enough to support them by simplifying their operating framework, but they should be at the heart of substantial support at every level, with measures and policies such as strengthening their liquidity, their digital modernisation, actions to reduce their energy costs and their environmental footprint. So, basically, we need to talk about a progressive backing policy for the backbone of the Greek economy, which is really small and family-owned. Unfortunately, however, the priorities and options of the New Democracy Government are others. It is the attack on labour and on human resources, which, unfortunately, faces it as a cost to entrepreneurship and not as capital. It is the communication show when in Greek with the bulldozers to enter a week in two years' time, when in Thessio and the funds of the Recovery Fund will unfortunately be brought to very few. The Change Movement insists that 37.5 billion of the European Recovery Fund should concern the many, all of the country's productive classes and social forces. The government plan, however, focuses on the few, unfortunately as always on your own children. It does not focus on fundamental support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. It does not guarantee the country's productive reconstruction. The Greek small and medium-sized enterprises are absent from your plans, from the government's plans, but there is no support for the modern agri-food sector. The transition to the digital and green economy is not linked to production in our country and to the creation of new jobs. Even the green suit of the government and Prime Minister emphasising the achievement of climate targets and the green transition of the economy, unfortunately is not so green. If we look at the comparative data on the programmes of the other Member States submitted to the European Commission by the government takes on the greenest government to bring green growth, it urges that 37% of the available resources of the Recovery Fund be channelled to the green transition, while Slovakia is channelling 42% of the funds, Austria 59% of the resources, Luxembourg 61% of the resources of the Recovery Fund, Denmark 59%, Spain 49% and Germany 42%. And it is not only the quantitative issue that should be the greater percentage that we are starting from low to lower than other countries, such as Denmark and Austria, which have the same sizes as us, but also the quality, because the government's plan promotes a model of import and consumption. Immediate subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises are unfortunately crumbly in the face of what is being given to large businesses. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As long as the Minister for Development argues that there will be additional loans from the banks for small and medium-sized enterprises: which terms will a small and medium-sized entrepreneur be borrowed? How will the banks respond to the demands of very small and medium-sized enterprises? Are you satisfied with the government? Are you personally satisfied, Minister, for the choices of these banks? So that we don't catch the piece called red loan management companies and the immunity of some of them. Unfortunately, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is low on the agenda for the Government and the middle-class that operates in it will unfortunately be the great loser of the project "Greece 2.0". The bill has positive arrangements, but it is far from being a reformist part. It is not enough to simplify procedures if we want to keep small and medium-sized enterprises alive, especially in the region. There is a lot more that the current government is unfortunately not prepared to do, as it does not embrace them, to adopt progressive policies. This needs another economic philosophy and a different approach for another vision, for another model of balanced sustainable development. There we focus on the Change Movement with our targeted proposals, and that will continue to do more intensively in the next period. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides. Mr Haimaras Themistoklis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from 2019 until today, one of the most important objectives of our Government has been and remains abundantly to simplify bureaucratic procedures and strengthen the entrepreneurship of every size. And I would say that despite the persistent, but in vain attempts by the Opposition to prove that there is no structured strategy to strengthen the business, the truth is far from the opposite. There is as systematic as well as coordinated work in this direction, and in the course of a global health crisis without precedent, a crisis which could lead to delays in many areas, given that it would be common to assume public health and pandemic policies. Therefore, instead of apologizing today for delays or omissions, we can talk about the tangible, tangible and practicable policies that we have adopted and implemented. More specifically, the government's policy to strengthen entrepreneurship is moving on four main axes. The first axis is to improve the insurance and fiscal framework by reducing reductions to the respective rates, mainly for the middle class and therefore for the multitude of small and medium-sized professionals. I remind you of the reduction in the tax rate to natural persons from 22% to 9%, to businesses from 28% to 24% and to 22% of the year, the reduction in the tax rate to dividends from 10% to 5%, the low rate to 10% for agricultural schemes, the reduction in the advance payment of tax, the abolition of the Katrugalo Taxation Act and the introduction of a fair and lucrative insurance landscape are some of the things that we have already established faithful to our election commitments to relieve professionals too. Secondly, support and promotion of entrepreneurship are initiatives. For example, I will mention the institution of microfinances up to EUR 25,000 for startups and these initiatives of business angels, the approval of dozens of investment projects that were integrated into the development law and the acceleration in the absorption of the NRP, the establishment of "Elevate Greece" for newly-born businesses, the unblocking of strategic investments, such as Cassiope and Greek. The third axis is the titanic effort to attract large investment involving thousands of quality jobs. The strategic planning of the Greek Government has brought about only two difficult and unprecedented years of investments of multinational colossals in Greece, such as "MICROSOFT" in Attica, "PFIZER" in Thessaloniki and many more. The investment of "CISCO" in Thessaloniki, the project of "VOLKSWAGEN" in Astypalea, the new Design Center of "APPLE MATERIALS" and many investments at last transform Greece's image, an image that in previous years was characterized by obstacles and delays in investment, an inhospitable business environment and many, many unrelentingly bureaucratic obstacles. We are dealing with these obstacles on the fourth axis, which also concerns our current legislation. Continuous simplification of procedures relating to the establishment and operation of an enterprise, an investment combined with the digital transformation already carried out in public administration, both with development law, Law 4635/19 and the recent Law 4796/21, as well as with the current provisions, we combat stateism, great taxation, insecurity and the fear of businessman. We facilitate its everyday life through the most digitised public registers and gradually and definitively abolish the multi-teaching bureaucratic system of business licensing and operating procedures. These, ladies and gentlemen, are not theories or promises. These are all definite acts of the Government of New Democracy. Day after day we eliminate those features of public administration that drowned and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, the articles of the bill have been made in detail in the committee and, of course, today by our rapporteur, Mr Andriano. I take this opportunity to refer again to the issue of the use of thermal sources - I know that I can be tiring, Minister - because I firmly believe that it can be a pillar of strong growth in the years to come. It is a matter for me personally, as many colleagues have spoken from the Step of the House in recent decades. But if we are to be completely honest with the Greek citizens and I personally towards my fellow citizens in Fthiotis, for decades we have been talking about environmental, archaeological, town and other problems which prevent any investment proposal to exploit this wealth. In Photidia alone, the Thermopylae, Kamena Vourla, Hypastomo are such examples of state slowness and responsibilities are burdening all governments over time. The regulations for the thermal tourism facilities contained in our current bill are sound and necessary. But much more is needed to make Greece a destination for health tourism. We must focus on this more effective, more drastic and in cooperation with the government and with all the stakeholders to assemble the gears of the growth machine that he hears in the name of 'diabetic sources'. The truth is there's delays. Ladies and gentlemen, in summing up, the bill we are debating today is another necessary piece of legislation in the New Democracy, as all the bodies invited to the committee have of course agreed to. We lift the sleeves, up speeds and with an ally of science and the vaccine we prepare to take advantage of the opportunities arising from the National Recovery Plan and then build Greece that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Zachariadis Konstantinos from SYRIZA has the floor and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos will speak. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I should like to begin with the amendments from the Ministry of the Interior. We are voting against both Articles 8 and 9 in a single form. It is obvious that the government is not planning. It gives a second extension. The municipalities, the blue mayors of the majority of them have not been convinced of the usefulness of the tool and are trying to make a bypass, to create bypasss next to the municipalities, exploiting sufficient weaknesses. A new customer opaque system is before the gates. The government of finest in new episodes. With regard to Article 9 another responsibility from the regional and municipal councils is passed on to the Economic Commission, not only for the establishment of development agencies, but also for the development companies that will turn them into development agencies. You did a hole in the water. We didn't just turn around. You are transferring responsibility to the Economic Commission and to pressure them, but also to be able to convince them that it will be easier from there. Mr. Georgiadis, because I know you're following the international press and generally commenting, it seems to me that I have not seen you commented so far on Mr. Armin Lasset, who is the successor of Mrs. Merkel and CDU candidate for Chancellery. So Armin Lasset said in the FINANCIAL TIMES newspaper - the potential Chancellor coming from the right-hand area - that after the pandemic there will be a return to fiscal orthodoxy and never again debt-sharing. With Mr Lasset you are in the same party, the European People's Party. You remember the debate and conflicts we had about two years ago in the House about how good or bad Mr. Weber is. It's been forty-eight hours and you haven't taken the kich, Minister. I think this is the most important statement so far in Europe. You're doing festive events with Mrs. Von Der Lyen on the recovery package, which is an important tool. Of course, in its turn from other countries such as Spain, Portugal and Bulgaria, I did not see a corresponding party being held, but anyway. And this is where Germany's potential Chancellor gets out tomorrow, and what does he say? That memos are being prepared. This means fiscal orthodoxy, debt crisis, banking crisis, North-South crisis. You need to place yourself. You have to make a forehead. You must make alliances on the two axes that cross the political life of Europe, the north - south and the political families. An issue that is particularly intense in public speech, but it is mainly about the interests of the country, is this story with the memoranda of cooperation with northern Macedonia. I personally don't care to hear the hundred and fifty eight apologies. Everyone is aware of what is happening in the Balkans. Everyone is aware that we didn't trade the Macedonian with the pensions. Everyone is aware that you have divided the Greek people for voting. Everyone has realised that the Macedonianman is an extremely profitable profession, when he is fishing in the blundering waters of nationalism, populism, landscaping, when someone is in opposition. Bring to the House the memorandum of cooperation with Northern Macedonia. Stop playing with the European future of northern Macedonia, Albania, with Greece's prospect of having a European border around the north. Stop playing with European interests in the region. Stop playing with the occupied Balkans. Stop giving Turkey a vital penetration site in the Balkans. Don't do, thirty years later, your inner-party problem. Don't live again because of you, the country's political and diplomatic defeat. It's for the benefit of the country, it's economic and military agreements. It's a profit, and if some of you don't vote for it, they'll vote for it from us. Go ahead. What are you waiting for? Do nationalists win in northern Macedonia and go back before 2018? Would this development be a good thing for the country? In the medium term, Minister, we have fought many times for figures in this Chamber. You voted in the budget, if I am not mistaken, for growth in the economy in 2021 by 4.9%. The medium term says a review of downwards of 1.3 %, 3.6 for 2021. The recession in 2020 was 8.2%. What does that mean? That all you were telling us, half 2020 and in the beginning of 2021, for falling and developing type V was a fairy tale. We have a long drop in 2020. The recovery in 2021 is lean, for the data. I wish we could go to 3.6%. I fear that with the possible fourth wave, with this coronary mutation, we will not be able to get that far and the great recovery is referred to in 2022, which says 6.1%. I find it highly optimistic. I want to ask you something else. With this pre-election commitment you made, Mr. Georgiades, that for every 1% growth you will increase the minimum wage 2%, what will be done? Now that the medium-term says 3.6%, will you bring about a 7% increase in the minimum wage? You said that in an election. So you won the Greek people's vote. It is a matter of topicality. Unfortunately, this policy goes on: the lifting of first-resident protection, the bankruptcy of natural persons, unpaid ten-hours, the insurance of Pinochet, which abolishes the solidarity of the generations, which abolishes the redistributive nature, which intensifies inequalities. The questions are clear and do not just come from SYRIZA. They come from most of the wards of counterpopulation and, of course, from society. Who's gonna pay the transfer cost? Who guarantees that this will not be the first step towards making the same thing as the main pensions? It is a critical battle that will be given to both Parliament and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor and the Minister for Development will then speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to begin my position with a complaint from the Communist Party of Greece to the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, on the unacceptable act of insulting the human dignity of the family of the family of the murdered by the Golden Dawn Pavlou Bryssa, but also of insulting the memory of the murdered, reproducing the carpets of golden origin. He may also be a negative to the mask, but the masks to cover the extreme right features of his party fell. He tries to attract, collect the "orphan" of Golden Dawn by spreading everywhere the poison of racism and xenophobia, creating alliances with the most reactionary, the most extreme right, which "closing the eye" to fascism, exists in the European Union from Lepen, Salvini to Orban, Hungary. Mr President, we have another bill of common acceptance, but also revealing the nature of the parties of urban management, of the New Democracy, of the SYRIZA, of the Change Movement and of the rest, of the strategy of convergence of these parties with the choices and needs of the capital, needs that lead to the altar's altar's satisfaction with the needs of the workers and the people. The bill, which the JRC voted against, as very properly analysed by the special speaker of the JRC, Yiannis Delis, makes it easier for the licenses of the capitalist business groups, but also for their action, removing any minimum administrative control measures, as well as the protection of the public space, construction, public health and environmental protection. So what do we have on the substance? Facilitate the investment plans and the interests of the major shareholders of capitalist enterprises, and on the other hand, you are putting obstacles to the workers' trade union activity at the same time, taking another step in the ban on the substance of the strike, by pressing on the provision made by SYRIZA. You want full control of the trade union movement by the bourgeois state and the employers. Only by this controversy seems to be clearly who benefits from these two actions. Benefits are the big shareholders, they lose the workers. However, there are also a number of other issues that reveal the class character of your policy. The bill moves in the logic of strengthening the competitiveness of business groups. Really, is competitiveness a technological process that has neutral effects or simply facilitates the organisation of production? We are saying very clearly that the result of this process leads to the armouring and growth of the profits of the big shareholders of capitalist businesses. On the other hand, at the same time, you are forming - and you are going to take a qualitative step above - the attack on workers, against workers' rights to reproduce a cheap, consumable and without workers' rights, focusing on the adjustment of working time. In other words, by adapting working time to the needs of businesses, you are making workers more intensified, making them cheaper. On the substance, make use of the achievements of technology, increase the productivity of work in support and the depth of the competitiveness of business groups, which leads to the background of the exploitation of the working class since more and more of the wealth generated by the workers ends up in the hands of the big shareholders. And in this case the big shareholders are also benefiting. We also have a new attack on insurance rights through the continuing reduction of so-called 'non-wage costs', which leads to the reduction of the total earnings of workers for the benefit of business groups. And in this case are the big shareholders, losers. In addition, through the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, that is to say the management of employee contributions and the gambling of these contributions and life-long financial markets. In other words, big shareholders will take advantage of the hard work of the workers to have cheap money to go ahead with their investment plans. And if things go wrong, the "account" will once again result in the taxpayers, the people's taxpayers, who will be called upon to cover the damages of subsidiary insurance, the subsidiary funds from the financial markets. In other words, we have a double redistribution here, on the one hand for the benefit of the capitalists, once they manage the money of the insured and, on the other hand, you will share the damage between the popular layers. Taxation and tax competition, which is one of the indicators for increasing the competitiveness of enterprises, leads to the growth of even more of those tax revenues, that is, tax burdens, which will be called on to pay and raise the populace, scandalously exempting the corporate groups from any taxation. So you proceeded with the measures taken by the SYRIZA government to reduce corporate tax rates from 28% to 24% and to reduce the tax rate of profit distributed. From 15% SYRIZA took it to 10% and you only took it to 5%. The result of all this is what is recorded in the medium-term budgetary stability programme, which was submitted only yesterday to the House, where there is an increase in revenue between 2021 and 2025 by EUR 13 billion. In other words, from 45 billion you estimate tax revenue in 2021 will rise to 58 billion in 2025, as predicted in the medium term. Of these 13 billion to 70%, that is, 9 billion, will immediately be removed from the pockets of the populace. 6 billion as an increase in income from indirect taxation, i.e. the most unfair taxation, and 3 billion for an increase in income from natural persons. So in this case, who wins and who loses the answer is obvious. Balances - I lose, you win. Permanently won are the major shareholders of capitalist businesses, permanently lost workers and the people. Let me refer here to VAT on the islands. The title we could put is "The killer returns to the crime scene". Basically, keep this small reduction as a compensation, as you say, of the weight they lifted from the migration. You turned the islands into immigrant prisons and so you try to buy and "golden the pill". The JRC is clean and what it emphasises in its position is that VAT on primary folk items should be abolished. In this context, we have again tabled the amendment for a permanent reduction in VAT on all Aegean islands. All that I mentioned in my speech is just a few examples of what you are preparing for the next day for the working class and for the people. And on all these issues there is agreement, because on all these issues, both in taxation and in insurance and in the armoring of the competitiveness of business groups and in the hitting of the trade union movement, all the governments have put their stamps on the ruins of the people's rights that the previous government has created. This is the path of capitalist development that you all support. This road leads to the continuous deterioration of the position of workers and peoples, the opening of the lane between the possibilities objectively available to satisfy the people's needs and the level of satisfaction of the people's needs, the increase of social inequalities with wealth to concentrate on increasingly fewer hands and, at the same time, poverty to cover more and more layers of the people. So it is clear that the answer to the benefit of workers and the people is in conflict with this policy that serves the needs of capital, with the real operators responsible for monopolies, the capitalist system itself. The radical overthrow of the association of forces must be on the people's agenda, that is to say, prepared to counteract not only the attack, but show the way to change the power to organise the economy in order to meet the needs of the people. This is the way to socialism. Thirdly, unfortunately, there is no way. All the streets have gone bankrupt. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u194	You have the floor, Mr Heta, for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u195	To make a clarification because such things cannot be heard and not answered. There's probably some confusion. We're not going into the process. We leave them in their past, in yesterday, where they are and what is left from yesterday and the past. We really don't have anything else to talk about. We represent something much more vibrant and beautiful, tomorrow of our country. As far as the resolution is concerned, to say that for us there is neither a resolution nor a resolution has been signed, nor is there any cooperation with parties. I think if you bothered and read it, you'd sign it, too, but that's another story. We also say something else and I'm done with it. We say the Greek state owes it. Colored by the family of Myrtus. Colored by the child's family in Philippi, this story. Painted to the mother of the Bridge and to the family of the Bridge. We say he owes the little girl the camera family. You remember these stories. We have the courage, we have no ideological claws, and we say the state owes money to all of them. And the Bridge's mother, the family. We do not have such problems and we say so clearly. Others have problems, but no one really deserves to be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u196	Now this has nothing to do with the bill. It's neither personal nor personal to the bill. You can tell them in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u197	Mr. President, didn't you hear? He told us fascists, told us a thousand two. Aren't you in the room?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u198	I thought you had an explanation to make to Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u199	That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u200	Finish it, please. Besides, you have a dentistry. I'll tell you in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u201	The answer is that. We said we don't have much more to do with the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to give some answers to what I have heard, not so much on the bill, because, as has already been seen in this House, there are no fundamental objections. Even those who vote against it are voting against it with various other excuses, all outside of the bill. So now we're actually going to the point of those who've been heard to put things in a row. What's the matter with the Greek economy? Today's bill is another attempt, another link in our attempt to liberate the Greek economy and start running at a faster rate, just as we had promised beforehand. Of course, I agree with Mr Karathanasopoulos. Third way, there's no way. There are two ways. One is the central design of the economy, what you believe in. The other is the free economy, capitalism, that is, what we believe in. No problem. We believe two different systems. For our own system of bills as today is necessary. For your own system it would obviously be indifferent. So your criticism is not very important in terms of the bill, because you disagree in principle, in substance, and not whether an enterprise should be founded in a minute, ten minutes or ten days. You don't want any business to be set up. You want the state to have it all. I just want to say for reasons of history that in terms of economic success you have obviously failed. Where communism was implemented, it has been financially unsuccessful. I will exclude China that has one of its own inventions of capitalism. You do not call it a very communism what China has, so that we can be honest, at least as far as the economy is concerned. So I come to give answers about what is happening with the Greek economy. Because I say again that this bill is a link in a large and systematic effort that will not be solved in a bill, which is interministerial. Apparently, the Ministry of Development has the leadership of the effort. Besides, this bill is a product of cooperation between many different ministries, like the two previous ones, headed by the Ministry of Development. What's a central target? To start the economy running fast. First of all, so that we can achieve the goal, we need to understand where we are. Mr. Villardos started his speech - Mr. Villardos tends to talk technocratically, but he is always wrong - and he said that our tourist season has begun too low, it is very bad and it is not those predictions and expectations. If we don't fight now, and I say that, you say the rest, that doesn't matter, I testify for the Minutes to the post that Mr. Andreas has made. Mr Andreadis, as you know, has been President of the SETE for many years and is to date one of the largest investors in the tourism sector. I do not think anyone is questioning his lack of knowledge about the tourist product. I read: ‘Greece takes precedence over its airline recovery competitors in 2019. Finally, June..." - I note with the United Kingdom it is still closed - 'We are already only less than 35% under the same time in 2019'. That is to say, in air positions in June we are in 65% of 2019. "Impressive reintroduction" - says Mr Andreadis - "...which, if continued, shows the dynamics of the country and better the expected performance of our tourism". You'll see the chart below, Mr. Villarde. The gray is Greece and it is above all very different. I put it to the Minutes, for my dear colleague to study it. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I say this because the target we have set and set yet - I will say for my goals and forecasts - is 2021 to achieve 40% of 2019. And of course, the good months would have been from the beginning and we knew about it in July, August and September, because June has not been well opened. So, in June - we will see what will happen, in a few months we will know the result of the next three months - not only is the target of 40% of 2019 achieved, but it is well above that. It's, actually, 25% higher. I'm closing the parentheses. Mr Zachariadis - to whom I have a lot to say on the way and we will thank him, I like parliamentary dialogue with arguments - has done an entire analysis of the development of the Greek economy, that it will not be our predictions, that I wish we could achieve it, but that does not look at many of them. First of all, what are our predictions? The budget was 4.8% mentioned by Mr Zachariadis. Right. This has been reviewed in the Stability Programme. What for? Because, if you remember, in November when the draft budget was submitted, the pandemic forecasts were still very different. Finally, the pandemic drew much more, unfortunately, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe. The forecasts in the Stability Programme for 2021, that is, the forecast for 2021, by the Greek Ministry of Finance, totals 2021 plus 3,6%. This is the forecast for 2021 growth. I would remind you that the forecasts of the Greek Ministry of Finance for 2020 have fortunately come out, as they were worse than what we eventually had. Where did we close in 2020? We've closed to minus 7.8%. Was it a success? You can never successfully say minus 7.8%. Within the 2020 framework, however, it was a success, because everyone's forecasts were for much longer, about what Mr Villard said at the time that we will have a two-digit recession and the lowest in the Eurozone. The same was said by Mr. Tsipras. And Mr. Varoufakis had a bet from here that we'll be over 15%. Therefore, with the provision of Varoufakis minus 15%, with the provision of Tsipras minus 12%, with the provision of the Greek Ministry of Finance minus 10%, the final result minus 7.8% is obviously better than forecast. Just math. Don't argue with numbers. But let's just go and see now, because I'm listening to all this criticism. I'll talk to you fellow Members. Micropsy does not bring votes. I've been here for fourteen years, I'm being elected and re-elected, and I can tell you how the call is working, which I'm glad to know. So I say to you that the Greek people are extorting miserable and petty and you will not have a good political course if you continue that way. Why is that so? Because whatever we say here in the House, the House is not vacant. The House is not alone in the world. The House is part of a living reality. For example, because our fellow citizens believe in how it will go to economy in the coming months, there is an economic climate indicator. You know that IOBE has taken off the economic climate index, which for May is the best of the past few months and is a little short of the best to date of the Mitsotakis government, which was just before the pandemic began. So the predictions, expectations, the feeling of our fellow citizens as to how the economy will go is that it will go well. It doesn't mean that the feeling will come true. However, because the economy has a great deal of anticipation, because it leads to economic decisions that in turn create economic results, it is a forerunner. On this precursor, then, we are going very well. But is it a feeling that only Greece and not just the Greek people have? Oh, no. So let's go see them in turn. Article 1, 7 June 2021: ‘IHS Market: The biggest rise since 2000 recorded processing in Greece’. That's not prediction. Look out, this is a financial result. They count what we produce in industry, what we export, how many hires we made in industry and how many products Greece made. Be careful, the largest record since the year 2000, that is, twenty-one years ago. I am tabling the relevant motion for a resolution on the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are talking about a financial result now and not a expectation. However, let's go a little further on the financial results, and then we'll go to expectations. "Wood, June 2, 2021: The Greek economy..." - Mr. Villarde and Mr. Zachariadis - "... recovers faster than expected". And within there is a whole analysis why this house thinks that Greece is finally doing better than predictions. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. "Citigroup": Development of more than 10% in Greece in the period 2021-2022. I will put it before Mr. Kostas Zachariadis. Is Citigroup enough? Let's go to "HUNCH". On June 24, 2021, the Greek economy's Upgrade Week - The new GDP forecasts for 2021. I'll read that a little. "Ombrognation of upgrades from international foreign houses in the last few hours. Some analysts even predict GDP growth up to 6.5%. One house after another revises for the better their forecasts of the Greek economy in 2021. The positive surprise about GDP progress in the first three months of the year led to everyone changing their forecasts." Bank of America announced a projection of 5.1% compared with 3.4% in May. DBRS states plus 5% of 4% that it gave in May. Scope Ratigns has made the most prediction: 6.5% from 3.6% and 4.8% from April and May. I'm putting the rain on upgrades to the Greek economy. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Does this mean that the forecasts will be confirmed? No, it doesn't mean they'll be confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u204	Then what do you tell us for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u205	We're working.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u206	And last year...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u207	We're working.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u208	Mr. President, I'm sorry. It's causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Zachariadis is losing his temper. And when you lose your temper in politics, you make two mistakes. First, you sound grumpy underneath - bad for your votes - and second, you make me answer, which is greater evil for your votes. Last year, when the spring forecasts of the Greek economy came out, where they put us at the bottom with a two-digit recession and last throughout the European Union - not in the eurozone, last throughout the European Union - the SYRIZA press office made a announcement celebrating. The projection of March 2020. When, in the end, we were not only last but much better than expected, the SYRIZA press office was buying coffee bitter from a funeral. So stop provoking. It is obvious that in 2020 the Greek economy lasted. Having to withstand should not cause you sadness. It must give you joy. You're Greek, too. And you have endured. It is not only a success for Georgiadis, the Minister of Development. They are all Greek people. And if you don't recognize it, you're not only petty, but you're doing bad things in your homeland. We are not allowed to oppose the results of the Greek people's sacrifices in the House. And, yes, the Greek people did it in 2020. And because it was in 2020 - to come back - the houses are now reviewing forecasts upwards. Because they don't want the houses to get hurt last year, who fell out on their predictions, thinking we'll get less growth than the one we finally had. And since Mr Zachariadis wants to talk about results, the only official result we have in 2021 is that I have tabled for the PMI index of processing, which is the highest, as you have seen, for many decades and the second, the results of ELSTAT for the first quarter of 2021. You don't know - ask Mr. Tsakalotos, will he explain to you - that the results of ELSTAT fell the yield of Greek bonds the next day, because the markets didn't expect this good results? Can you hear it from me? Yes, the first quarter of 2021 is hopelessly better than prediction. Do you know the prediction of the Ministry of Finance? Around minus 7, the foreign houses minus 11 and closed minus 2.3. So it's obvious that the Greek economy has been at a speed. In our hand is this speed to strengthen it, to raise it, to go faster. And that's why we're here today. And I'm glad the Change Movement and SYRIZA will vote for this bill. And we'll bring ten more such bills. Reforms will not be visible. I don't want to tell you that I'm going to make radical legislation. I am the most radical reform I can imagine, making the lives of my fellow citizens easier and simpler. This is the biggest reform for me, not to trouble people when they want to do business. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Can we do it? With such bills and such consensus, we show that we can do so and we will continue to do so. And I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, this may not like SYRIZA or some of SYRIZA's petty people, but here we will be making a fund in a year from today - that if we keep working as we work, you will see that our final results will be much better. I have not yet reviewed my prediction, as they did themselves, and I will say why. Because we in the government want to be responsible. We will also expect the results of the second quarter to have the whole first half of 2021, to have a very sufficient part of the real economic performance to count to get out and tell the Greek people, although we will increase or not increase the prediction of 3.6. However, the fact that all foreign houses are moving forward into upward predictions, this shows again a climate, a expectation. Why does that matter to us, Mr Zachariadis, for telling us about the forecasts we have spent and three minutes in Parliament? Because those who are going to decide whether to make their investments in Greece and think whether to do, for example, a project in renewable energy sources, a logistics center, buy a hotel, enter the real estate, build an industrial plant in Greece now, do not listen to you in the House, nor me. They get into these houses to read what Greece will do. And they read that Greece will go very well and that's how more people decide to come. And that's how our gross national product grows. But where would you understand that in Kumundur? So, we are in a phase that if we work and are consistent, the result will come and will be very good not for the government, but very good for the Greek citizens who will find a better paid job, who will be able to enjoy a period of time outside the crisis that has troubled the Greeks and which will give the opportunity to many who have left in the ten years to return. Because, slowly, these large projects that are starting will create demand for skilled jobs, which many of them can only provide, those who have been working outside and have acquired such experience. And by reducing the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis the taxation and the contribution to the insurance funds of the person who is employed, he increases the money that he will have in his pocket and become more competitive. And so they can return from abroad and find jobs again in Greece. In our hands, all this is to become a reality. I am also making a final article on tourism that I forgot before, just as a forerunner again, but that is a constant one. 'Record flights this summer from the United States of America for Athens'. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I do not know how many you know, Mr Villardo, because you have spoken outrageously about what the government is doing about tourism, but I will tell you that there will be at least seven direct flights between the United States and the airport of Eleftherios Venizelos, most of them ever exist. Forty thousand aircraft seats every week from the United States of America in Greece. Do you think the airlines put the route because they took money from the Petsa List or why do they see that Greece will work and have places and will sell tickets and make money? This shows the work of the government, which is not recognized as being petty. I am not saying that you should come here and say, "What a nice thing to do with it." But you can't say you didn't do anything. Because if we do nothing and all these people write about us, something is not right at all, Mr. Villarde, in the world system. Of course, you'll tell me that up, down, down, you believe. But what can go wrong? And that's what I'm gonna close. Only one thing is my concern, because I am sure that the government will do its job, the Greek people have an absolute urge to work, to enter their life at a normal pace, to invest whoever can invest. And with the new development law that we will bring with Nikos Papathanassis we will speed up very quickly all these processes and will almost all be done automatically, by pressing a button on the mobile. You will see the electronic program that the Ministry of Development is preparing for the development law that you will watch from the mobile phone where your file is and who is an employee and how much time it is to sign and you will see how quickly the system will run. Because we really want the investments to run. We don't call it theoretically. Everything will be fine if we do what we have to do. One can go wrong. What? To return the pandemic in winter. Because if the pandemic comes back in the winter, we will now be on our own. Why are we going to be alone? Because the Nordic countries have already reached a vaccination rate of 60% -70% at the pace they are going. And if we don't get there and stay at a rate of 60% -65% vaccination, we're told by doctors that there is a very great risk that this Delta variant or some next one that might come back to the world of the unabsorbed, fill up the intensive care units, cause too many problems in our social activity again and, above all, create problems in our economy. So what is the main concern that all political parties must have at this time, ladies and gentlemen? To convince those fellow citizens who are still not convinced to be vaccinated. Because today science has no weapon except the vaccine. This is the only weapon that science has worldwide and you see what other countries do with not our love for freedom, with very tough measures they take, which I can make clear is far from us. But that we must convince our fellow citizens to be vaccinated, is the great national objective. And can I tell you something? I read today the parapolitical that Tsipras - he says - 'emptied' Polakis on the political board yesterday. It could be true, it could be a lie. I don't know that at all. However, I saw yesterday an interview by Mr Zachariadis in 'The Caller' in which he accused the New Democracy of celebrating that the invasive - sprayed - won in Spain. This is the words Zachariadis. So tell me, Mr Kostas Zachariadis, you are so against the uninvasive - sprayed, what do you think about two texts I will read to you? The first is a day ago. I'll testify to it in the Minutes to be there for history. "To the governmental infectious and something from left apologies...", this for a nail to Andreas Blonde seems to me, "...of Moses' story about the pandemic, the two tables I put below are proof that I am right when I said directly that the over 60-65 and vulnerable MONON groups should be vaccinated. Pavlos Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health of SYRIZA". Four days ago: “I read some literary scientific bias. One is the reason for reducing cases and severe illness, it is heat and summer. In the autumn here we will be" etc. Six days ago: "Mr. Skeerchos and other people..." the rest are Zachariadis, Blondos, etc. "...yes, if I were Minister, I would suggest vaccination of the above 60-65 and vulnerable groups with full knowledge and I will not open the platform to untested vaccines in phase 3." [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Excuse me, do you have in your parliamentary group a former Deputy Minister of Health who has chosen himself as the head of the anti-embolic movement in Greece, sit with him in the same chairs, did not dare one of you publicly say that he disagrees with what Paulakis writes on Facebook and says from the Step of the House and you have the courage to say that New Democracy was happy that in Spain the inconveniences were won by the invaders, Mr Zachariadis? Well, you see Spain and you don't see your next seat? Aren't you ashamed? So political hypocrisy has limits, dear. Either you stand up with courage and say that you disagree with what Paulakis writes on Facebook and we will tell you well, indeed, you have the right to talk about the invaders or you will silence once more and you will never say so again in any interview because both are not. And that, of course, applies to all of SYRIZA. Because in the case of vaccination in two boats, it doesn't fit. I'm sorry to tell you, but here in two boats we can't. Either you think there's a virus and the only weapon is the vaccine, so anyone who comes out and undermines this belief is damaging public health, and so he murders his fellow citizens who won't be vaccinated or believe it, and in this case you stop every word and irony for those who I've heard from SYRIZA say "Velopoulou" and stuff like that. So here you will be with yourself, with the Greek people and with history clear. Which side are you on? And if you are the right one - which I sincerely hope you are - find a way to get him to stop writing them every day. Unfortunately, it is not any of our fellow citizens who are sprayed, in the opinion of Zachariadis, as they were, by Spain and Spain. But he's been a former Deputy Minister of Health for five years with your responsibility. And so a man who, because of the post you gave him may even affect people in not going to be vaccinated, so you have a responsibility for what's happening. And don't think you'll always be able to hide behind each other and all together behind Paul. So to close it. Our Greece will go very well. All of us already understand it and all of us are already rewarding with their predictions and with their public support in the efforts made not only by the government but also by the Greek people. The next few years will be years of great economic growth and prosperity. The most available resources from the European Union are many, the project is structured both for the Recovery Fund and for the new NSRF, we are fast running, bureaucracy is falling, the debt is managed, Greece is going to be well. But this one possibility that we all have to lose, we all have a responsibility to deal with it, to stop it before it happens, so that the Greek people don't lose what will be enjoyed in the coming years. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Zachariadis has obviously asked for the floor on a personal matter, but not in the case of Article 68 for abusive behaviour, but obviously for clarification. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u211	I'll need a minute. Mr Georgiadis, at first you said well that when you shout, you are causing an answer and you will lose more and your voters see more and I will answer you and make you more damaged. Then you started yelling. Whatever you say about us in a way applies to you. We all operate in the same parliamentary framework. What did I say about Spain - and we will say about Greece - which is not true? Aren't you the ones who celebrated on twitter for the defeat of the progressive forces, the socialists, the Podemos and another progressive component in the Madrid region and the great success of Mrs Isabelle Diath Agiossos? Aren't you him? Aren't you? Why are you frozen? Didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u212	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u213	Hey, say 'yes'. So you celebrated why the Podemos lost and Iglesias left. Who won? What was the slogan of those who won, to come to an understanding of what we say in the country and what is happening in Europe, and what battles do we have to fight? The slogan was "Communism or freedom". On the side of Communism were the health measures recommended by the progressive government of Socialists - Left and on the side of freedom were the negligents of the mask. Mrs. Ajusso was also called a Spanish Trump. You know who Trump is who you would vote for, Mr. Georgiadis, both hands. So who is in international politics and touches at the reactionary audiences? SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance or the component you express within the New Democracy, why do I not want to be unfair to the whole of New Democracy? Or, Mr. Georgiadis, have you been with Biden, have you also done this fucking thing? In other things, you've done successful shitheads. You said positive about Karanika, you said positive about Crecho, you go on with our bills and good for you, I've recognized it for you. But tell us when you were telling about Trump before the pandemic, don't you realize that this political behavior of Trump would also have this continuity in the matters of pandemic? Because at the core of our values, Mr Georgiadis, it is not superstitions, it is not prejudice, it is not conspiracy theories. It's science alone, the Enlightenment. Now for our party, for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u214	I think you have given the explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u215	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The party president, Alexis Tsipras, on the first day that he was given the opportunity to be vaccinated, gave an example and went and was vaccinated. Because you made personal references, I personally on 3 May when the government gave it the unique opportunity to go vaccinate with AstraZeneca, while in other countries the concern about the possibility of vaccination with other vaccines had been taken, I went and vaccinated, and I belonged to social media, obviously not to show my nice arm or the nice breast that Mr Mitsotakis was showing, but to show that we must all go to vaccination. And in fifteen days from today I have the second dose of AstraZeneca that I will do and which I will post on social media. And the most sacred thing I have in this life, my family, my father, my mother, my brother, my friends have all gone to vaccination. So why are you playing this game? Why don't you come here to Parliament make an effort together to reach agreement on the parliamentary parties, the institutions, to overcome the other European countries in a rate of vaccination and to try to save and to destabilise us for months, with many incidents of your own government failures, your own government failures, your own government mistakes, your own government responsibilities?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u216	That's enough, Mr. Comrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u217	I'll be in ten seconds. I've been abused. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u218	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u219	All right, Mr. Sedetakis, listen to them once. You were shouting about becoming government. You've become government. Such a responsible government has never seen the country before. This thing is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u220	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade. It's not your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance and understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u223	The Minister has the floor. Minister, please soon to low tone to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u224	I'll tell everything. First of all, I said don't be smiling, not shouting. It is hard for me to say not to shout because of the voice I have. Mr Zachariadis, I note on the Minutes, firstly, I read to you the specific statements by your colleague, Mr Paul Polakis and former Deputy Minister for Health of SYRIZA. The name Paulakis didn't say it at all, it didn't sound. You're afraid to say the name. Now the call for the parties to make a mass vaccination campaign when the Deputy Minister of Health comes out every day and posts how bad the vaccines are, you can see that it is not working. Obviously, if we make a campaign, we must be without you, because you will carry Paul. That's the problem. And the more you fear to say it publicly and to face it and let him do it every night, the worse it is for you, but unfortunately it is also for Greece. Because you said about me and Trump, "his approach to things and the way he faces politics may look evil, but it's good". Did Adonis Georgiadis say that, Mr. Zachariadis? Mr. Alexis Tsipras told the White House. "It may look evil, but it's good." To keep you out of agony, I'm always with the American President, I love the United States, and I've been a pro-American since birth. I did not become a pro-American like you, now, some of the old or the middle ages of others. I've been a pro-American ever since. So I'm with the president of America. I like America, the country of freedom. To speak now and on a point I forgot to answer and close, on the subject of memoranda in relation to the Prespecies Agreement, listen, Mr Zachariadis and gentlemen of SYRIZA. The Prespecies Agreement, as we have said at the beginning, is a very bad agreement. We had said in an election that we would respect it because we had said before it was voted in Parliament that if it was voted it would become an international agreement and it is compulsory. And we have said that we will respect the country's international obligations so that we do not bring the country into a more unfavourable position, not because the agreement is good. Nor did I, of course, welcome Mr Zaev, as Mr Villard said. I've never welcomed Mr. Zafe to anything. I've met him in Great Britain at a restaurant where he was eating with Mr. Savakis, if I remember the President of the Industrial Thessaloniki. I'm closing the parentheses. One of the very bad things about this agreement is that it does not provide for penalty mechanisms when someone violates it. And the fact that you come here today, SYRIZA is being called on the spot and tomorrow, when Zaev tweeted not with northern Macedonia, but with Macedonia, provoking all the Greek people in EURO with the flag of Macedonia and saying that he will take an initiative to change this and then tweet it as Macedonia itself, when this is happening and it is all the Greek people furious with the very bad agreement you signed, you come here today and tell us to speed up the memorials with northern Macedonia. Warm congratulations! You still don't understand how bad a deal you've loaded the Greek people. It says the main representative of the Greek Solution to veto the Macedonian accession process. You obviously haven't even read the deal. The agreement in Article 2 explicitly forbids Greece to veto the Macedonian accession process. "Article: Greece has been prohibited from now on and forever in the future," the agreement says in it. So, in order to take this seriously, the government is managing a very bad agreement in the most responsible way possible. In order for the agreement to be respected as compulsory, otherwise this agreement will not be complied with at all. It's so simple, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u225	You've become clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I request the floor. I haven't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u227	Mr Tsakalotos has the floor as a Government spokesman for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u228	Three-four minutes, Mr President. Mr. Georgiades, I'm over the old age line, and I'm saying you mean only to the deep ages I'm going to see when you're going to deposit the contract for northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u229	I didn't say that about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u230	Because we're still waiting for her, so I'm not in a position to answer you for North Macedonia. I'll answer you when you bring the contract and see you vote on it. There's no reason to talk about it now. On the issue of vaccination, all parties shall be represented by the President and their organs. In the House, when the President cannot represent him as the first parliamentary representative, I represent him. And I want to make it quite clear - and if you are in good faith you will not continue this - that the position of SYRIZA is in favour of vaccination, the position of SYRIZA is that it cannot replace the vaccination drug, the position of SYRIZA is that the more and the more they can be vaccinated as quickly as possible, that is good for all of us. Let's go further, talk about the patents, which would be meaningless if we didn't want the whole world to be vaccinated. We are going further for the poor countries too. Because you are a government now and not us, and now, if I understand it, it represents us, Mr Mitsotakis, and the matter will come to us, it is of great importance for all of us, not only all Greeks and all Greek women to be vaccinated, but also the Third World countries can also be allowed. It will be tragic, primarily for them and for those in the third world, but also for us, because we will not end with this pandemic if the coverage doesn't work all over the world. So, I'm telling you, don't spit out, don't find out that someone said, didn't say where he said it. The main thing is how the parties are represented. You are in a position to know that we too can say things that your fellow Members have said, which Mr Mitsotakis and you, perhaps, would not adopt. So, clearly I say to the Greek people: please everyone, I think, here you have no fear of vaccination. It is important for you, for your families, for your neighborhoods, for your regions, for Greece. This is the message of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u231	Well, you were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u233	Minister, I think we've run out of it, now we've gone to another issue. I think Mr. Chakalotos has made his position clear. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u234	To prove our complete good faith, I have no intention of going on with it, the message that I wanted to get out of this House is exactly what it came out of, because beyond our political differences it is impossible not to love this country and its people, and so we are not interested in its well-being and health. I therefore consider this statement to be important and, yes, Parliament's parties should make a campaign to convince each of their own people to be vaccinated, because, I repeat, from whether we will get to the immunity wall, a lot will be decided in the winter coming. And we all have the same anguish to save and human lives and jobs and the Greek economy. And I didn't mean you for the old ages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Bukkaro, will you speak after two colleagues, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u238	Because I spoke before, I have asked for it, I will make it easier for you to complete...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u239	Wait, as a parliamentary representative, do you want to intervene now or? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u240	...but not, which completes my presence, I won't ask why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u241	All right, get rid of the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u242	Besides, I was covered by the Minister. I'll just talk for two minutes, because it got out of the bill today. Indeed, to me, the statement by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, is very satisfying because we must think about the big issues. The Minister raised another matter. Some executives blur the image and I see SYRIZA sometimes, even for officials in the second and third line of New Democracy to overthrow things and call for responsibilities from the New Democracy and the Prime Minister for statements by second and third-line officials. However, let us remain positive, what Mr Tsakalots said, that it is the responsibility of all the political forces to proceed with vaccination. After all, Mr President, and I am closing down for the bill, we are all in agreement, which is why I will be very brief and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u243	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u244	Wait a minute, Mr. Catarini. Do you want to talk about the issue that has now arisen about vaccination? You'll be given a chance in a moment to tell them, I don't see why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, just a minute because Mr. Georgiadis said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Katrin, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u247	Mr Georgiadis, because you are responsible for development and we are discussing a bill today that has a broad consensus and you know that political consensus is the number one prerequisite for foreign investors, in a debate that goes to a good climate that is dynamic in this climate, to turn interest into another issue and an objective issue that is that the vaccinations in the country are not going well, that we all have backed up in order to go well over the last few months objectively, to try to raise it internally. I think it's wrong as a Minister of Development...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u248	Listen, the Minister responded to specific objections that don't concern you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u249	I put it for the Ministry of Development that in relation to the climate of consensus, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u250	Not to say that the climate is 'dying up' now. Listen, I run the debate, Mr Chakalotos had the floor to speak, and he had to speak, from there on, it doesn't matter now, in any case, in your second language. We continue with Mr Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy, then Mr Santorinios will speak from SYRIZA, and soon thereafter, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, will develop the amendment. Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor, and then Mr. Santorinios immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to this draft law, which is another legislative intervention by the Government of New Democracy which aims to strengthen the development of the Greek economy by creating a more entrepreneurial environment that attracts investment and creates jobs. This is a draft law which follows on from the legislative initiative of L.4796/2021 which aims to continue to work towards the consolidation of licensing procedures, to expand it to other sectors of economic activity, to simplify and digitise the economic activities of the present, but also to align them with the national simplification programme referred to in Article 45 of L.4635/2019, which is a coherent, central, public policy. He comes to deal with some of the chronic problems of the Greek economy and when we talk about chronic problems, we have to admit that the procedures that have been in place so far have added a disproportionate administrative burden. We must note, however, that in the last two years, thanks to the legislative measures already taken, our country has made great progress in the international competitiveness index. According to recent surveys, our country's ranking in the global competitiveness year has improved by 12. In 2019, it was only in the 58th place, in 2020 at more than 49th, according to the survey, it was in the 46th at a time, in which our country was called upon to face up to problems that pandemic caused and to support affected households and businesses. In spite of the adverse circumstances, Greece has improved its position in the four sub-indicators, key to sustainability and growth, such as economic efficiency, government efficiency, business efficiency, infrastructure, as compared to 2019 and consistently continues its upward trend. The European Commission, in fact, in the tenth evaluation report has very optimistic results for our country. This is the seventh, successively positive report during the New Democracy governance period. The report recognises, among other things, the significant progress made in one of the greatest challenges for our country, the pandemic. It recognises and positively highlights the Government's initiatives in implementing innovative reforms, but also the right option for exceptional budgetary measures. It stresses, in fact, that by compassing the Recovery Fund, Greece does not only cover the losses of the previous years, but strengthens liquidity and highlights a development policy that is expected to peak with the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. And all this is reflected in the credibility that the country enjoys from international markets, which makes it borrowed at historically low interest rates. At the beginning of the month, we issued a ten-year bond with which the interest rate is about 0.9%. This, as the Prime Minister of our country pointed out, is another sign of confidence in the recovery of the Greek economy and its long-term prospects. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill we are called upon to discuss and vote on comes to strengthen this development and progressive course of our country. It comes to strengthen its productivity and competitiveness by exploiting the potential of digital technology, as well as best international practices. Public administration needs speed, it needs vigilance and it needs to operate alongside developments, and this is a key factor in our country's digital transformation. Authorization procedures are simplified in a number of enterprises such as tourist agencies, road transport tourists, health tourism centres, medical treatment and seabathing facilities. Years of problems are solved regarding the licensing of processing activities, distribution and storage centres and the development of business parks, through the updating of the relevant provisions. Here is a great opportunity for prefectures, such as Elias, which has a number of processing activities with a significant export activity, due to the high value of agricultural products produced, not only for the development of other processing activities, but also for their proper location through the development of business parks, which is really missing from the prefecture. Ladies and gentlemen, what is essentially introducing the bill is the transfer of the weight of control of a company at its operating stage, which is the most essential, contrary to the ex ante control which adds additional bureaucratic burdens and costs. An important step towards digitisation of the system is the completion of an online application of Notify Business, which directly implements the accelerated procedures of the undertakings concerned, as it is a key way in which the competent supervisory authorities receive the necessary information from the economic operator in order to start setting up and operating, as well as any change in its operation. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law concerns all economic operators and investors who already carry on or wish to engage in an economic activity in our country, whose exercise is now being facilitated. It concerns primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are unable to follow the disproportionate burdens and difficulties that have arisen so far in the licensing of enterprises. It concerns the public sector, which exempts from an extra bureaucratic burden and costs. And finally, by strengthening entrepreneurship and competitiveness and by guaranteeing the public interest, it also applies to the whole of our country's society and economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has committed itself to a policy of support and support for all businesses. A policy which is not only to reduce tax and insurance rates, but also to simplify procedures by reducing bureaucratic burdens. As a country we have shown many times that we can overcome every obstacle, recover and move forward. Responding to our pandemic has shown us that proper preparation and management, but collective effort also brings positive results. Today, then, we are taking another step towards creating a more environmental investment-friendly, strong and competitive Greece, a Greece based again on strong foundations and setting high targets for the future. I therefore invite you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The reason is Nektarios Santorinios from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we finally had to see a recession of 8.2% in 2020 to see, at last, even anemic, development from the New Democracy. I would remind you that from the fourth quarter of 2019, that is, since you took over, we had fallen into recession before the pandemic. As for the vaccinations, don't teach us any lessons. Throughout the winter we asked you to get the people of tourism to be vaccinated, that is, the people who will take over the country's heavy industry. We all now know how important tourism is. You have not done so and it has an impact on what is happening today. Now, to go to the bill. Minister, I would like to refer to dietary units, multi-powered or simple dietary units, because what comes up - and so far I am not saying is that it results from your own regulations - is that anyone who can start by building on the essence of a dietologist - nutritionist, but without proving the relationship of work with that dietist - nutritionist. What does that mean? That we are actually renting diplomas, black work, and in fact we do not know whether, particularly in the multi-powered centres, there is a nutritionian - a nutritionist who does this work, with any risks to public health. I therefore think that we are now in time to get proof of the working relationship for the operation of these centres. Accordingly, autonomous dietary offices should be separated from multi-powered dietary offices. It is very unfair, Minister, to ask for the same documents, but also for the same paradoxes from a nutritionist who is going today to open an office in relation to a multi-powered centre where other services are provided. Eventually we have to understand that these scientists have something to do with medicine, so we must treat them rather than as simple, free professionals. I would like to refer to Amendment No 947. He came to tell us that he brought the island VAT back to the islands. Look, we need to know what we're talking about in this Chamber. Amendment No 947 is a follow-up to the regulation of Law 4509/2017 which rescued the reduced VAT rates on the five islands where we had hot spots. Does he have characteristics of insular VAT? Obviously, he doesn't. When we brought this arrangement, you stoned us and told us that you abolish the island VAT and replace it with the refugee VAT. Now that you're expanding this arrangement, you suddenly baptize her insular VAT? We should be a little serious. At the moment, Mr Metarakis is not answering us why they have become so oversized centres in these five islands, once the refugee flows are reduced. Do we, in the end, want to have them ready, on the basis of the new immigration agreement? With regard to the insular VAT, Mr Mitsotakis in Antypalea has said - and I will also present in the Minutes - that VAT will be the next step when our public finances are fully balanced. Really? Are our public finances not good today? Was 2015 better? So, when you had promised the reduced VAT rates on the islands, with the e-mail Hardouveli and set up the left-hand side plan with Mr Samaras? Do you want to remind you what you delivered to us in 2015? In 2015 you handed us empty funds. In February 2015, we were looking for 500 million to pay salaries and pensions. You handed us a non-complete second memorandum and numbering to the debt. You delivered us a country that had no access to the markets. Do you know what we delivered to you in 2019? We gave you 37 billion security pillows, available liquidity, regulated debt and market access. And you're telling us that at the time the budget was better and you are pointing at us that the reduced rates of VAT have been abolished, and today it's not budgetary, and you're not bringing them back? So today, when the islands have been hurt more than any area in the pandemic, today that budgets have been better since 2015, you are bringing back all the reduced rates of VAT to the islands if you want to be honest, otherwise stop the fairy tale that you are bringing back reduced VAT rates to the islands, because that is how Mr Mitsotakis and you are mocking the islanders. And what are your island policies? Do you know that today you owe the ferry companies the public investment programme, Mr. Georgiadis, 70 million? I'll give you the letter from the CEN. So at the moment, all small ferry companies have no liquidity to pay for their operations. Do you know what that means? Risk of stopping routes in the summer. You know this should have been settled and you don't take care of it? So I'm asking what you did for the islands. We'd brought the transport equivalent. Except that you fought it when we brought it, you abolished the fuel pillar. You pay one to the islanders, and we pay for their tickets every month. You pay one to the company and three invitations should be made a year to deposit transport costs last year under two, and this year has not been the case. So we say to you: open up the transport equivalent to all citizens, to strengthen the islands, strengthen internal tourism, and give two voyages of aerotur via the transport equivalent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. Strengthen our islands even now. The health units of the islands have been degraded. We've reached Kos not to have a cardiologist. We've come to Rhodes to have an anesthesiologist, and you tell me that in pandemic conditions you are dealing with the islands. All health units have been degraded on the islands. And at the same time strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr Georgiadis. Do you know that the tourist package excludes maritime tourism companies? You know that from the tourist package, basically, there are no room rental companies, because subject to one annual unit of work, no one can cover it because the rooms are working for three months. How will they cover the one annual unit of work? So they stay out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u254	Three seasonals, one operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u255	You put in seven rooms, three workers, and then you come back and run a business! Are we serious now? Don't say that, Mr. Georgiadis. From there on, then, what we are asking you to do is strengthen tourism, strengthen our islands, despite what Mr Andreas says. I read today a post - which I can already give you, I do not have it printed - by the President of the Tourism Agents of Rhodes, who says that from 13 May until today in Rhodes there have been a hundred thousand tourists, when in Rhodes in 2019 we had two and a half million arrivals. So it's not as good as you think it is. Do you know what the bad is? That you have to face the reality as it is and not beautify it, so that we can get out of this crisis. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much. To make just one clarification in view of the fact that you referred to VAT then I was in the same government as Mr Hardouvelis. Paul Thompsen - that is, the troika with Paul Thompsen - called twice for reduced rates of VAT to be abolished and then our government set a red line and you know it very well. And in e-mail Hardouvelis there is no intention of reducing VAT, and please bring the e-mail Hardouvel here. He never mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u257	I'll submit it to the Minutes. Revision of the VAT arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u258	And because I was at the FYROM, the Troika was asked for a review and it was not accepted. And because I was on the Private Debt Management Board at that time, I tell you that it was not accepted. The reduced rates have been abolished over your days and you have linked them to the return after the number of immigrants. That's the reality. I say it as a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I would like to ask why I have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure must finally be observed. Mr. Comrade, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u261	Good, Mr Santorinier, because I made this speech - it is legitimate, it is not out of the question - you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, to remind the House, the e-mail Hardouvelis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u263	Bring it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u264	I'll get it for you. The e-mail Hardouvelis was not the agreement with the institutions. It was the intention expressed by the Greek government...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u265	Oh, right now, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u266	...and within the intention was to revise the VAT scheme, page 26, point 5 of the e-mail Hardouvelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u267	Listen. The government at the time of the New Democracy did not reduce VAT rates and the e-mail Hardouvelis refers to a request from the troika for this. I therefore ask you very much, for the reason that you can bring it to us here. Mrs. Pipilis has the floor, and immediately afterwards is the Minister, Mrs. Arabatzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u268	It's time to talk a little more about the bill. Simplification of the framework for economic activities within three Ministries - Infrastructures, Transport, Health and Tourism - clearly strengthens entrepreneurship, hence the national economy. In this way, any gaps in the recently adopted L.4796/2021 and the opportunity to take advantage of new opportunities in other business sectors, while at the same time Greece is consistent and with the Memorandumary Obligations to the European Union. It is a radical change, to finally get rid of the chronological wound of the fast-fashioned and ruptured. Let us not forget that, until now, for four and five years now, there has been pressure on MPs and, in general, politicians and politicians and, on the other hand, there has also been a fatal 'black' of money moved from pockets of business to pockets of government officials. So, thankfully, all this is over with the completion of the simplification for the start of entrepreneurship. At the same time, it also relieves us of the monstrous bureaucracy, and it is another sign of the Mitsotakis Government, which has put it first and foremost, and we must put that to the fore. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, and you yourself, Minister, to stand on one side of the bill which I personally consider to be very important. I'm explaining. There is a permanent identical article, which provides for the imposition of sanctions on the operator of the activity, particularly in the event of infringements of the notification - in other words, accompanying documents - and clearly defines the cases in which it is to be interrupted. This is the proof that the previous Act of 2016 opened up new trade holes, which I refer to below. In other words, a simple notification of an e-mail to some responsible agency that 'I, you know, tomorrow I'm opening a shop', since there are no known checks, has caused very serious problems. And here because I have already heard SYRIZA colleagues look at the Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, that he has delayed two years to complete the interventions of the Ministry of Government of New Democracy, while in 2016 his bill on the simplification of authorisation was made under the Fast track procedure, I have to say: Yes, I prefer a bill to cover all sides and needs despite this monstrosity for some activities that came out of the 2016 bill, especially for start-up operations in the field of focus, where there is no previous infrastructure, without there being a strict application of land use, all of a sudden, one with huge ease made, especially in certain neighbourhoods of the center of Athens, urban areas, monstrosities that we will carry with us - because the current Minister cannot change them - and no one can change them, monstrosities that affect the image of the urban neighborhood with its habits, its values and the obligations of the state to protect them. Because with a simple notification to the Municipality of Athens, which is a huge mess, the other one said "I will sell cookies". Immediately give the immediate supporting documents. I have many complaints as a Member, so I have a deep knowledge of the problem. The one who opened a mall, rented a basement, closed the jam with gelatine, saw nothing, and after a month of work without a wallpaper from the city's town building - and I believe in other areas, not just the municipality of Athenians - a basement store suddenly became a ground floor. In the basement there is a kitchen, which has no safety for the workers or those who will come down, and does not have toilets, for example, where bureaucracy is abolished, but immunity is born. There are hundreds of similar cases in neighbourhoods that, from urban - I repeat - have been ghettoised and within two, three years, tens of bars have been born in ground floors living in residents, elderly people, Europeans. Next to it is a tavern, next to another tavern, next to a cafeteria. They all take tables out on the narrow sidewalks of Athens, which become impassable. Cooking, because there is no infrastructure, takes out the ventilation or the bustling of the apartments or the sidewalks. Cars of demolition go and take up positions of MEDI. The bushes go to drink their drinks in the neighborhood that they like and occupy parking places for permanent residents. And motorcycles, motorcycles, shrine ducks, who drink the cappuccino french, are abandoned on the sidewalks outside the entrances of the apartments. This is all because there has been no spatial planning, cooperation with other ministries, which I suspect you have done so, Mr Georgiadis, not to do so. It has turned a large city centre into Bournazi and Ghazi area. So I think it was an opportunity, since today's bill doesn't touch such things, to open up a debate in this House how we're going to alleviate uncompromising things so that people don't rise and we have other kinds of developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too, Mrs. Pipili. Mr Fotini Arabazis, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to support Article 10, entitled 'Agricultural activity and management of renewable energy', an amendment to Article 2 of Law No 95181/23-6-21 to an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment which we are discussing today. This is an effective demonstration of the government's support for agricultural income and of course the Ministry of Rural Development. Why? This regulation does not lose the status and benefits of a professional farmer who naturally accumulates the conditions of the professional farmer as defined in Article 2 of Law 3874/2010, but at the same time manufactures and manages photovoltaic power stations of 100 kW which are currently up to 499 kW, i.e. five times above. This is a harmonisation of Article 2, which I mentioned in paragraph 3 of Article 72 of Law 4062/19. Hereinafter the income resulting from the management of these PV stations up to 499 KW is considered and taxed as agricultural income, provided, of course, the manager has all the conditions of the professional farmer. The person concerned is normally registered in the register of farmers and farms, which means that the RES, renewable energy sources up to 499 kW from 100 which were currently in place, is considered to be agricultural holdings. It is therefore a further targeted initiative by the Ministry of Rural Development to reduce the cost of producing farmers, farmers, beekeepers, fishermen, increasing their income, strengthening social cohesion and, of course, the contribution of the agricultural sector to the use of renewable energy sources and the green agreement, which the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has put the country in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Kotsos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the amendment tabled by the State Secretary for Rural Development, which gives farmers the right to build photovoltaics up to 499 KW. You really give a breath, give a help, give a boost to people of hard work, to people of production and at the same time make a decisive contribution to changing the energy mix of our country. It was something that the farmers were asking for, a proper request that they correctly find the way to implement. If anyone were to ask me what the three greatest pathogens are, the three biggest problems with regard to entrepreneurship in Greece would say that it is heavy bureaucracy, the heavy way of managing these things by the public administration, the tax system and the judiciary. The delay in the administration of justice is great, especially when someone has taken action and reaches the Council of State many times in order to give a final and final solution to all ten years. As mayor, I have experienced such processes with small businesses found in the eye of the cyclone and the eye of legal confrontation that really impoverished the businessman. In some cases, a water bottlement operation I remember, which had the whole process had to be solved for about ten years, forced it to sell most of its business. It is therefore a glorious field to lay down rules and procedures for the rapid award of justice, especially when we have such problems with appeals to the Council of State that exhaust businessmen. With regard to our tax system, it is true that it was working negatively to attract businesses, because it was basically defying with the tax system delivered to us by the previous government and the entrepreneurs, but in total by Greek citizens, and I think that the government has given us answers in this direction. With regard to the heavy financial system that managed the licensing of businesses there too many times was tragic. Usually, public officials against any question they asked discovered a problem rather than a solution. An attempt to resolve this issue was launched during the period when Mr Akis Tsohatzopoulos was then with the introduction of the OHIMs, the hosting centres, as one stop shop and at the second level of the JETs, business and technological development centres with an effort to relieve the businessman from the Cylon and the dazzling public administration procedure with regard to the issue of the licence. And even then, because I had the luck of being president and CEO to a large development company, which was declared a contractor to the OHIM, I would inform you that this issue, the very good energy, if you like, of being able to get rid of the bureaucratic process and the corridors of public administration, has again been affected by public administration. Because, when the staff of development were trying to proceed with the dossier in the various services, because the public officials wanted to have direct contact with the businessman himself - for good reasons - again in front of any question, in which case we discovered a problem and not a solution. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So it is really in the right direction, and I fully agree with what the Minister said earlier, that we should give the possibility of simplifying procedures and making the lives of Greek citizens easier. This is what our bill is trying to trigger growth, to trigger entrepreneurship, to relieve it from unreasonable burdens, from unreasonable delays, and above all to reduce, to concentrate its licensing time. The New Democracy as a party that also believes in entrepreneurship, which supports the private initiative, is a one-way to give such answers and at a time when we have the challenge of exploiting the very large resources of the Recovery Fund. Our big bet, our great stress is that these resources should reach the citizen, the real economy, the market. It is of paramount importance that we remove all delays, all illnesses, all negative consequences from this process. I think that by simplifying the procedures, by exempting many tax burdens, but also by giving a solution to our judicial system for the rapid award of justice, we will certainly create an attractive investment environment in our country, which will attract investment from abroad, but above all will positively work for those who wish to attempt in our country, to those who wish to create their own business, to create jobs, to contribute to the great bet of the recovery of our country's economy. I am sure that, with the efforts of all of us, with the consistent, stable and at the same time decisive governance of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we will do it for the good of Greece, for the good of the Greeks, for the good of the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u273	We are also grateful, Mr Colleague, for the time being. Mr Vassilis Spanakis of the Second South Athens Sector of New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment, which we are debating today, the New Democracy Government is almost completing and completing the process of simplifying the framework for the exercise of a number of economic activities, namely those that had not yet been included in the new simplified institutional licensing and opening up of business. It follows from Law 4796 passed in April 2021. It follows from Law 4442/2016, which was also a commitment to the institutions. Any removal of unnecessary bureaucracy, any simplification and accelerated process, any modern institutional framework, has only a positive impact on the economy, on entrepreneurship, on work. Development is being achieved and, above all, in terms of transparency. Obstacles, complex procedures, dazzling frameworks only bring about delays or even cancellations of investments, lost jobs, unfair practices and unfair competition, of course, since those who have the means to speed up procedures are favoured. As the committee responsible has shown - and this is very positive - the draft law has broad support from most of Parliament's wings and I hope that this will also be reflected in the final vote. The economic activities simplified by the current bill are roadside assistance, business and road assistance partners, drivers' schools, candidates' theoretical training centres, schools and professional training centres, dietary services, aesthetic workshops, tourist agencies, road tourism, thermal tourism, units and health treatment centres, sea-sea-therapies. With the new provisions we have either invoked the notification procedure or prior authorisation arrangements if these are activities which present increased risks. So we see in a few words that we want in every way the simplification of procedures, the service of the one who wants to develop business, but at the same time we weigh and calculate the risk. Of course, in any case it is compulsory to keep and produce every document required on request. Checks shall be carried out and penalties shall be imposed for infringements. In part II of the bill, we have further arrangements for development activity. In particular, the licensing of processing and logistics activities is regulated. Further issues of the organisation and construction of business parks are regulated. The institutional framework shall be supplemented to include business parks with a large single unit. Let me turn a little to Articles 36 to 41 concerning, among other things, the supervision and control of electronic stores and the imposition of sanctions, as well as the use of the corporate seal. In particular, the services responsible for checking e-commerce, other than the imposition of fines, may also remove the websites of shops marketing and handling counterfeit or counterfeit goods. The issues of proving the representation of legal persons and their counterparts of public limited companies are fully clarified. The new arrangements explicitly stipulate that for the demonstration of representation it is sufficient to sign, name and status of the legal person, the MAH, i.e. the code of representation for those who are registered in the GFCM or the relevant protocol number for those who are not required to register in the GFCM. In the following articles, we are also bringing arrangements for strengthening development. Article 42 provides that projects by Greek enterprises participating in proposals for major projects of common European interest approved by the European Commission shall be financed by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this Chamber, we almost all recognised the positive direction of today's bill. It's very encouraging. The large majority also agreed that the simplification of procedures, the elimination of bureaucracy is imperative in order to strengthen competitiveness, the economy, growth, productivity, the public interest and another reason, as most of the provisions concern small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the main body of Greek economic activity. The role of the state is to facilitate economic activity, strengthen and encourage the enterprise. The role of the State is to supervise, ensure compliance with legal procedures, provide an environment of security and intervene where there are unfair practices and actions against the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, today, with the vote on this bill, there are also very important amendments, such as the amendment by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, with regulations such as the advance payment of the staff of the Port Authority, the Greek Coast Guard for their travel expenses, the possibility of extending the grant of the unemployed seafarers up to 30-6-2021, the extension of the support measures for seafarers by means of COVID and other important provisions put forward by this amendment and we will be called upon to vote. The amendments by the Ministry of Finance for further training and training of the staff of the Directorate-General for Financial Control, the Directorate-General for Control of Co-financed Programmes, the General Secretariat for Budget Policy of the Ministry of Finance and the staff serving in posts of inspectors and auditors of the National Transparency Authority. The work of the audit authorities is thus being upgraded. The possibility of extending the reduced VAT for Lero, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios. The Ministry of Development and Investment's amendment with arrangements to facilitate the procedures of the National Development Programme. The amendment by the Ministry of Development concerning businesses that had been subject to development laws in the past and which have to repay the grant because they have not been able to complete the investment. It is very important, because the Government of New Democracy gives businesses and natural persons the possibility of extending up to three years to complete the subsidised investment. The procedure for administering petitions, complaints and questions of consumers is clear, as the existing provision shows gaps. In short, we continue to legislate to move forward and create new jobs. Every day with every piece of legislation we gain trust. Our country's confidence level is growing. And this bill puts its own stone on this upward course of the Greek economy, which we will eventually win, as previous colleagues have said. And Greece will really be a worthy country of other advanced countries, because we have nothing to be jealous about and we have the opportunity to develop. Besides, addressing the pandemic has shown that Greeks can, it has shown that the state mechanism can respond even to exceptional events and within this context we are continuing this course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, too. Mr Anastasios Deskakis is called at Stepma by the New Democracy and the Exact Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts today are in the north of Evros and especially in the west. I welcome the presence there of the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Angelos Syrigos, with regard to the development of this as a seat of the Democritus University of Thrace. We pray for a solution to the Gordian bond created by the Danes. And now on our point. This draft law forms part of the government's strategic planning to achieve the upsurge and strengthening of the Greek economy. It achieves the lifting of bureaucratic strangles of the past and facilitates the exercise of healthy entrepreneurship. Simplification of licensing procedures with an absolute safeguard of the public interest is a prerequisite for strengthening the productivity and competitiveness of our economy. The current government makes use of its digital toolbox, reduces hardship and burden on unnecessarily bureaucratic processes. It is intended to simplify specific economic activities, such as road transport operators, radiotherapy units and health tourism centres. In particular, as regards these centres, it is foreseen that the Ministry of Tourism's Special Promotion and Authorisation Agency is designated as the competent licensing authority. The healing baths of Trianoupouli are hosted by the municipal community of Loutras Alexandroupolis. I have held a meeting with the curator of antiquities of the Prefecture of Evros to exploit the archaeological site. A corresponding natural and archaeological wealth also has the island of Samothraki, with warm divine springs in the settlement of Thermos, known for their healing properties from the time of the ancient Greece and the Byzantine period, which also require renovation and upgrading. It is important in the context of the planned simplification of the authorisations that we are discussing today to give the opportunity to exploit the specific tourist product and to private individuals who are active in the health source sector, thereby contributing to the tourist exploitation and upgrading of the region. I expect that, with the negotiated draft law of the Ministry of Tourism, entitled 'Association Management and Promotion Organizations, Viral Sources of Greece and others', a comprehensive framework for the exploitation of the thermal wealth of our country will be established, of course, in cooperation with local communities, ensuring sustainable and long-term recovery, which has not been achieved so far. The draft law also builds on the processing activity that creates more and better paid jobs in order to establish or fit into business parks in a timely manner. At the same time, it is foreseen that projects by Greek enterprises participating in proposals for major projects of common European interest, approved in accordance with a European Commission communication, are financed by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. For example, Minister, it is the new liquefied natural gas terminal of the well-known LNG in Alexandroupolis, a project of high national importance that will make Evros an energy and transport hub, as recently decided by the European Union. Minister, we are grateful for the fact that Article 4 of your amendment, which the Minister of Finance, Christos Stagioras, has signed up to the workers' odyssey until beforehand in the Greek sugar industry. And you're doing both the allowances of those made redundant from her and those paid to them by entrusting the OAS to the Greek Sugar Industry and by extension to her former employees, as I have pointed out with my recent written question through parliamentary control. Satisfaction is all. Thank you once again. I welcome and welcome Amendment No 94777 from 23-6-2021, which deals with 30% reduction in VAT rates in the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios, provided that centres and structures of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum have been established in their region. Next to these islands we must recommend adding Evros to it, because I am multiple, Minister, eyewitnesses and years old. The pillar of the state as acritical has been tested for decades by the immigration issue, and even serves the term of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, because it hosts the Immigration and Identification Centre in the New Orestiad penitentiary, which has increased their capacity recently. Of course, this was done as part of the strengthening of the seven cross-border guards of our land borders, which were all 24 hours a day, and especially at night, a body with a body, prevented them from being violated. A review would be useful and fair, and I suggest it. Why do we not forget that as a shield of Greek territory we are the main aim of neighbouring Turkey, as did the peculiar siege we accepted last year. It has become clear that the country is changing rapidly, moving towards a clearing of growth and progress, in line with best European practices, making it a unique pole of investment and entrepreneurship. The pandemic taught us that we can be pioneers and be effective as a state and as a citizen. The era after the pandemic is founded by bills such as the present one which I am voting for. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Prussakis. We continue with Mr. Christoforos Boutsikakis from New Democracy and the First Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the end of the pandemic is near. It is now known that after the health crisis, we will be faced with the big bet that the economy is. The Government of New Democracy is progressing unsuccessfully and speeding up the reforms that the Greek people have chosen for. Kyriakos Mitsotakis forms a state with a glance in the future, in the future, a state that serves the citizen, supports and promotes entrepreneurship, investment and development. In the first two years of governance we have fully restored the country's international image. We have earned market confidence and are now being accepted for flag-investment. The key to all this is the simplification of business action. This is what significantly strengthens the creation of new jobs, productivity, growth, the competitiveness of the national economy and ultimately the best life of the Greeks. This has been mentioned on several occasions by the international organisations. We now see it in the most valid indicators such as the "Doing Business" of the World Bank, where Greece ranks at an extremely low level in terms of investment friendlyness and entrepreneurship. In particular, the major problems encountered over the past few years are: firstly, the existing licensing procedures. Secondly, the bureaucracy affecting businesses and by extension public administration. Resources are being used in preventive control rather than being carried out during the operation of the operation, so it is also more substantial and more effective. And thirdly, a regime of pluralism has been giganticized and maintained. This, of course, leads to maladministration, resulting in companies being affected, the public and ultimately the mark in the economy and society being negative. Two months ago we voted on simplification of procedures, initially in the main economic activities. Today we are continuing this effort and extending this regime to more activities. We go through the obsolete model that prevented or delayed the establishment of businesses in the efficient model of strict controls and sanctions in the event of infringements in the operation of businesses. We are strengthening entrepreneurship, competitiveness, the world of work, the whole of society and the economy. We support the development of the protection of the public interest in practice. With transparency we shield the supervisory role of the state. We are putting an end to the selective interpretation of the provisions which lead to controversial administrative practices and, of course, to corruption. We are liberating human and economic resources, both public and private. We relieve businesses of unnecessary financial burdens, bureaucracy and uncertainty. We are simplifying, digging and speeding up procedures. We facilitate the transition to a new digital environment, making investment friendly. Promoting the state's digital transformation is the first priority for us. The aim is the speed and effectiveness of the transition to the new digital age for the future of the economy, the facilitation of everyday life and the quality of life of citizens. By subjecting low-risk activities to a notification procedure in general, while at the same time providing for effective controls and sanctions, we promote the operation and at the same time ensure the protection of the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure that today's bill is accepted by a large majority. This shows that there is an intention and that there is no opposition to the opposition, as the opposition was used to last time. This proves in practice that we can all reach commonly accepted solutions together. After all, from facilitating entrepreneurship, combating bureaucracy, ensuring legality and improving the quality of life of citizens, the New Democracy will benefit the country, everyone will benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Bucikaki. Always a gentleman in your time. Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as already announced in the resolution of L.4796 of this year, the draft law extends simplifications to the licensing procedures and other economic activities. This is to a large extent supplemented by an effort which is not only a national commitment in the context of memorandum supervision, but mainly a national objective, since the abolition of exactly bureaucratic procedures and approval phases facilitates entrepreneurship, frees resources, encourages investment, stimulates growth, serves competition, strengthens employment and ultimately strengthens the economy. In the context of the ongoing debate, there has been repeated mention of the areas in which simplifications are extended and it is superfluous, I think, of another repetition. As is well known, the simplification consists of placing activities under a notification procedure instead of adopting an administrative decision as regards their establishment and operation. In particular, the scope of the draft law shall be defined by the competent authorities, on a case-by-case basis, and of course the imposition of penalties in cases of infringements which may reach the end of their operation. Furthermore, issues are resolved for the establishment and operation of business parks. The setting up of committees in the regions for the authorisation of technical professions is being dealt with, supervisory and sanctions are being regulated in electronic stores handling counterfeiting, counterfeiting and consumer information about debits in cases of currency conversion into electronic transactions. In addition, restrictions are imposed on the obligation to use the corporate seal by legal persons and interventions are made in the administrative structure of the Industrial Property Organisation after the recent transfer of powers to it for trade marks. Finally, other specific and urgent issues are dealt with. In order to facilitate entrepreneurship, therefore, the Government is interventioning fully targeted and in line with the country's development planning. What, though, is the Anti-Civilization? The need for esteem. Often we hear that we are supposed to have opposition to the opposition. No falseer! Such reproach could give rise to a government which is consumed in chain conflicts and not, of course, in today's legislative and reform work. That is why he is entitled to speak. Therefore, despite the purely developmental nature of the legislation, despite the fact that the draft law is a continuation of a positive but incomplete previous attempt by SYRIZA, we heard a lukewarm 'yes' in principle, but accompanied by many 'but','maybe' and 'yes' and the well-known miserable criticism. And this is against the wave of good predictions, positive assessments, continued upgrades of Greece to important indicators and global classifications. After a further confirmation - recent - of the country's upgraded credit rating, a new improvement has been made for Greece in the global competitiveness ranking of the IMD for 2020. In this country we occupy the 46th place, three positions over last year and twelve posts during the two-year rule of the country by the Government of New Democracy. Greece, our country and our country are therefore on a good path. And certainly draft laws like today, improve, help to further upgrade, improve the economic climate in the country. The same is the case with the completion of the procedures for the full start of work in Greek, the same happens - and on an even greater scale - and with the adoption of the recovery plan and the absorption of the important funds accompanying it. So the country's prospects are undoubtedly being deleted positively. But they mustn't sleep on us. The health crisis has highlighted deep and traditional structural weaknesses in the Greek economy. The Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, which are mentioned in many of the regulations of this draft law, are significantly undercutting as compared with the large ones in the European Union. According to a study by the National Bank of Greece, domestic small and medium-sized enterprises fall short of 73% of the European Union's counterparts. However, the data on extroversion, innovation and digitisation are also lacking. For example, exports account for only 14% of small and medium-sized enterprises' sales compared with 38% of large. Technology is not part of the design, in the 40% small business strategy, compared with 20% of the large ones. Only 31% of SMEs develop new products compared with 50% of large ones. As a result, small and medium-sized enterprises during the pandemic period have suffered the greatest crisis, the greatest impact on the pandemic's restrictive measures. So the Recovery Fund is perhaps the last opportunity for the Greek economy, for the country, to close this gap in these critical areas. So we have major challenges ahead of us, but also determination and plan to succeed. Allow me, Minister, to close my position with a special reference. This is a correction to the training programme, a sector that has been hit to the highest degree, to the greatest extent, by the restrictive measures. In this targeted programme, for systemic only reasons, there are not around fifty gym owners who had changed CAR in the previous period to join some other programs. This, of course, has the effect of not being able to benefit from this aid, which is very important after this whole period. I would therefore ask you to see with due openness and understanding their request, which for economic reasons I am presenting in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr Constantinidis. The curtain will be closed by Emmanuel Konsolas from the beautiful Dodecanese and New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification of licensing procedures for the operation of a business is linked to the index of a country's economic freedom. So the same goes for our country. In particular, Greece has already launched an effort to cover the lost ground in this sector through institutional interventions that simplify the framework for business activity. This objective also serves the bill we are debating today. This was said by both the Minister and our parliamentary representative and by our rapporteur. In other words, it aims at facilitating the immediate launch and operation of small enterprises. The truth is that we live this every day, especially in island Greece where the backbone of the economy is small businesses, especially tourism. A further strand of activities has emerged from the ongoing evaluation. A simple notification is chosen to start operations such as drivers' schools, road assistance companies, tourist offices, road transport operators, radiotherapies and others. There is no doubt that the 'Notify Business' application is a major reform, which has been said by colleagues of almost all the parties in the House, since the submission of the notification can now start a business, such as the one I mentioned and without a prerequisite for a permit. Already in the process of notification can function with.... (it was not heard because of bad connection)... business, health stores, theatres, cinemas, as well as tourist accommodation, as well as other businesses. A professional or an undertaking may begin its operation and may now have the time to obtain all necessary documents, which will remain in the area of activity in order to be controlled by the competent authorities of the State. And, of course, a responsible citizen, a responsible businessman, is not at all negative to proceed with the operation and then any state control will come. I believe that the officials of the public administration are also in the same direction. The state, moreover, retains and does not dismiss the right of any control. We must stress that. There is no dismissal of control or of any official in the public sector, but neither is any operator involved in the market. The message is to create a climate of confidence, a state official in a state that controls, but at the same time to facilitate the development of business. I will dwell on the positive attitude and attitude adopted by the representatives of the bodies responsible for the bill. We must stress this and not forget it, Mr President. The bodies were all positive in their position, as - and they can be seen by each of us, representatives at the National Representation - the attitude of the citizens, businessmen and professionals. Besides, people in the market and in the real economy have full knowledge of the data and know that bureaucracy has led to the cancellation of their business plans. Most of all, however, people in the market know firsthand the administrative and financial costs of bureaucracy for a professional, for a small business. This draft law provides for the possibility of direct start-up of the companies concerned. This means that the development process is being strengthened and jobs are being created. Especially in this period of time is it very important that we look at this dimension in real terms too. Minister, I believe that the latest bureaucratic obstacles to economic activity need to be removed in two areas with high added value for our economy. Allow me to refer to maritime tourism and facilitate the licensing process of tourist ports and the services and infrastructures of health tourism. But the development process is also linked to other institutional interventions which we had the opportunity to discuss in private with the Minister responsible, Mr Papathanassis. And I'm talking about a new architecture for development law. In addition, a draft law had been drawn up at the Ministry - Mr. Papathanases is aware - of the multicentre projection throughout the country, focusing on attracting investment, but also on the promotion of development initiatives and business projects across the territory, because it has the potential to develop this activity from Evros to Kastelorizo, from Kastelorizo to Crete and from Crete to Corfu. I therefore believe, Minister, that the regional aid map should be reviewed in order to make a more rational footprint. For example - and I know that you know very well - the southern Aegean has 40% aid for small businesses, for medium-sized enterprises the percentage is reduced to 30% and for large enterprises it is reduced to 20%. I believe that this breakdown should be made with updated data. You realise that with the fall of tourism, the fall of the Gross Domestic Product in the southern Aegean for a second consecutive year, and the index of competitiveness should also be taken into account. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I have also raised the level of aid for small businesses employing up to EUR 10 million per investment project, since it should also apply to small tourist enterprises as to the general entrepreneurship scheme. Mr President, I would like to end by referring to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance on the reduction of VAT on the five islands that raise the burden of immigration. First of all, it is positive that the reduction is no longer linked to the fact that there is overcrowding in the structures of these islands, which the former government had linked. It was a bad juncture to abolish VAT rates on the islands, but I think there is still time and space to discuss the prospects for economic growth without the return of the economy or through compensatory issues and policies for the islands and the southern Aegean. Secondly, Minister, let me turn to the Prime Minister's position in Astypalea, where he left open the question of reducing VAT for island regions when the budgetary conditions allow it, during his visit to an innovative enterprise that was there and understood and saw how important it is for the island country to have this relief. It's not a privilege. It is a parameter and a prerequisite for the survival of entrepreneurs in this region. It has already been opened up in Europe to give countries - members the right to impose zeros or reduced rates of VAT on certain types of service, and I think we have arguments, but at the same time also legal basis, to put the issue at the right time, integrated into a comprehensive plan for the design and pursuit of a sound and fair European policy on islands. I think we should all look at it in our country together. Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, good power and congratulations on the initiative you had to bring this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Consola. We will now go to the rapporteurs - as far as I can see, Mr Andrianos and Mr Delis are concerned - and we will begin with Mr Delis. If the Minister is not provoked, I have the feeling that he will not speak. Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor for three minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much. Mr President, we owe some clarification in principle with regard to the bill, which we are voting against not just for ideological reasons, Minister, but also because this bill as a link between many of the previous ones, leaves a very specific and very practical negative footprint on the rights of the workers themselves, on the rights of the self-employed, the small craftsmen, because it is not this bill for them. Of course, it leaves a very negative print - we have explained it on several occasions today and in the committees - in the quality of life of our people, but also in the environment itself. These are the reasons why we are voting against today's bill. From this point on, we consider it unacceptable that the reduction of VAT on these five islands only be linked, not for any other reason, but that is, in our view, the legal basis for a whole European Union policy condemning these islands to become soul prisons. We have retabled as a party several times so far - we have not heard anything about this, so assume that you accept it or assume that you reject it - an amendment to reduce VAT on all the Aegean islands in the context of the proposal and the view that we have as a party to abolish VAT on what we call 'broad popular consumption'. And we all understand very well what these are. In this context, therefore, we call for the VAT arrangements in force before the abolition, if you like, to be restored, but for the whole Aegean islands. From there on, I would like to refer to the amendments, for which the current government has a very bad habit. Five are the amendments, quite large, quite extensive. I shall start with the amendment with a general number of 950 and a special 80. You know, Mr President, this amendment is made up of eight articles, which are completely irrelevant to each other, despite the fact that these articles deal with the maritime ministry. So we have the first article on the payment of the transport costs of ports, which, of course, we agree with and would vote in favour if it were to come here as a separate article. At the same time, however, there is also Article 8, which constitutes an improper, unacceptable state - ministerial - interference in the functioning of the maritime trade unions themselves. In any case, you fans of freedom and liberation, why do you have so much madness to interfere with the workers' trade unions and even define their terms of office, even the specific aspects of the operation of these organisations? So when these two articles come to an amendment for which we are obliged to vote as a whole, you understand that we will go and vote for the one that is heavier. Here too, the last article is a burden on this, this unacceptable state interference in the functioning of maritime trade unions. We shall therefore say 'no' to this amendment, despite the fact that we agree - I repeat - with the payment of the transport costs of ports. Let's go to the next amendment. Things are getting worse here. We don't have eight articles, but we have ten articles. It is, in fact, a mosaic of mosaic heterogeneous provisions entirely unrelated to each other - many ministries assembled in an amendment having the general number 951 and the specific 81. First - for Article 4. It is important that we talk about this because it concerns the workers of the former unfortunately Greek, the once mighty Greek Sugar Industry, which the governments - and they have very heavy responsibilities - have led it to the point where they led it. In any case, we have asked you something, you have answered us, Minister, but I think you did not say the whole truth because this regulation does not concern all workers. It does not concern, for example, the sacked, the ones who voluntarily left the company. In other words, these people will not receive compensation. I am tabling the Minutes and the struggling memorandum of ninety-six former workers of the Greek Sugar Industry addressed to the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, this article, which we are of course voting for, although a half-deep step, because some workers will get the compensation they deserve - we say they will all be taken, but we will not stand in the way of them - so this article is together with the same amendment and it will be voted on together with Article 10, which the State Secretary for Rural Development has analysed just now. This article is challenging, it is unacceptable, why can you be considered farmers you know who? Those with power-generating photovoltaics not up to 100 kW now, but up to 500 kW. In other words, they will be regarded as farmers, and this means that they will also fulfil the conditions of aid, the specific conditions of taxation and even companies, large companies of the so-called 'green energy', which will break individual business activities in production of up to 499 in order to have all the benefits. Not to say names here, but big shareholders of such energy colleges that we all know in Greece - they are advertising them every night on television - they will get the privilege and they will declare farmers, while a poor man, a carpet because he will not be able to prove that his agricultural income is greater than he is taking is not considered a farmer, although this man will be trained, he will have a few acres, he will make oil, he will make some fruit, no matter what he produces. That's the logic of your conception of development. You can understand that this article is against both our hands. And therefore, in this amendment where these two articles exist - there are other articles, but these are the two opposite - that is to say, the one for the workers of the Sugar Industry and the one for the production of photovoltaic power, you understand that the latter is getting bored and we will vote against it despite the fact that we fully support the right of workers and we would vote for it if it came on its own, the payment of their compensation for the former company, the undertaking of Greek Sugar Industry. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. Let's go now, following the reverse series of parties, to Mr. Logiadis from Mera25. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, at the last minute amendments to amendments! It's a common phenomenon now. I shall only refer to Amendment 950/80, which goes to gifts of the 'FRAPORT', 'AGEAN' and 'ENERGEAN', both to national routes and to concession holders of ports. With Article 6 of the amendment, the Port Authoritys, see the ‘COSCO’ in Piraeus, the Savvidis Group in Thessaloniki, will receive a grant again from the State budget due to a reduction in liquidity and income due to the pandemic. After all, the 'FRAPORT' has taught us that for border-free oligarchy pandemic the pandemic is the responsibility of the public, no one else. As for the amounts of grants, attention, not repayable or such. That's for the little and poor. For the great gifts of coarsely warm public money! The amounts will be fixed by decision of the Minister. It is absolutely disgraceful and we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. I really wondered where the JRC Parliament spoke eight, nine minutes without talking to us at all. Well done, that's something. Now, with regard to the tourism to which the Minister referred earlier, we are, of course, not against tourism but against the monoculture of tourism. To produce a country about 21% of its GDP directly and indirectly from tourism is wrong. That's why we keep saying that we're against the wrong tourist model. We want a change in our economic model so that industry, the primary sector and everything else are developed. Obviously, both your colleagues and Mr Zavvos agree that it is more appropriate for a country to develop its industry. Now, with regard to the United States, which you said about flights, you are absolutely right, flights have increased, we all know that. One of the reasons is that 2020 was banned by the United States in terms of our relatives, and now much more homosexuals are coming. That doesn't mean anything, of course. I wish that we would also have revenues from them in Greece. The bad news is, at least according to our information, hotel reservations are negative. It is not just flights, it also counts for revenue, and that is what we need to take better care of. We certainly believe that tourism will reach 50% of 2019. We hope and wish to reach 50% of 2019. It's possible and we can do it. Our forecasts for GDP of 2021, which we have done about a month and a half ago, are written in writing, is about 4.5%. We are not pessimistic at all, we are realistic and I think we can achieve it. It's possible that we'll do more than that. As far as the processing sector is concerned, for which the Minister said that there was a great increase, we would say to him: when something fell from 10 to 1 and after 1, growth is going to 2, growth is 100%. But it is obviously not what one wants. About the misery he accused us of, it is not about any misery. We all want Greece to go better. We are realistic, but we have learned to judge the past and not the future. With historical data one can better judge and do his program. When he goes to the future with predictions and all that, then it's very difficult. As regards the economy mentioned by the Minister, we have referred to the committee. We interpreted in the first quarter, we said what ELSTAT has done by reforming statistics for the last ten years, so we no longer need to repeat them. And finally, we all wish that Greece should go better as much as we can. The issue is to take the right steps and not just to remain wishful with such arrangements, which the Minister himself said were the Memorandum obligations of 2016, of SYRIZA. It is not something you have decided on, it is a memorial obligation to apply them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said in my first position in my second version, I shall refer to the amendments. Unfortunately, the government continues its bad practice of bringing together an amendment of articles that are unrelated to each other. It therefore obliges us to refer to a detailed article - an article in every amendment to what we would be voting on if it were an incomplete article, because, unfortunately, the way you choose, Minister, not only you but the entire government, creates many practical problems. And because impressions are caused, you know better than me how important they are in public debate, it is good to avoid them. I'm on my way. In Amendment No 947/77 on the reduction of VAT we have already said that we will have a positive attitude. We have asked in October last year for an extension of the VAT reduction to all the Aegean islands, and we believe that the government - it has not sought it - should call for an extension of the VAT reduction. In Amendment 949/79 by the Ministry of Finance for the multiannual obligations in Article 1, we agree. For the training and training of auditors in Article 2, we agree. With regard to Article 3 for the extension of the committee's term of office on heavy and unhealthy matters, I said this before and repeat that it is unjustified that this delay, which is even established in the article of the law in the explanatory memorandum, is unjustified because there are different approaches from the members of the committee. At some point, the government must call for the introduction and the government itself to make a decision, especially to give people of the public health system and health care units what they deserve to offer during the pandemic period and not constantly bring prolongations. I would remind you that the provision for the committee was passed in 2015, the previous government recommended the committee in 2018, we have reached the end of 2021 and we still have no conclusion. In Article 4, 'Guarantee of debts', we agree, but the government should also tell us what its overall strategy is for the repayment of its obligations to private operators. Moreover, it is an element for which it is controlled in the memorial evaluation. With regard to Amendment No 950 by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Article 'State Transport Managers and the secondment of test students' agrees. With regard to Article 2 for platforms for research purposes, we believe that transparency is not guaranteed and we are subject to reservation. In Article 3, 'Possibility of subsidising unemployed seafarers', we are obviously in agreement. In Article 4 ‘Measures to support maritime work’, we agree. In Article 5, 'Development of tables in land-locked areas', I think it should be clarified that the health protocols will be applied strictly. So it has to be completed. In Article 6 we disagree with the grant of port agencies, because there is not sufficient documentation, so we think that whenever public money is provided at least there should be sufficient documentation. He didn't support it, Minister, for coming here. In Article 7, 'port zone concessions' we agree. In Article 8, we disagree. The feasibility of the arrangement shall not be substantiated. As far as the amendment under number 951, Article 1 'Aid for the implementation of investment projects' is concerned, I think - and we told the Minister - that there should also be a description in the explanatory statement of how much investment projects that might be involved. It is problematic that there is a suspension of the recovery of accredited debts. However, we would vote for it, Minister, although it was an independent regulation. In Article 2, 'Management of petitions, complaints and questions for consumers', we agree. But you did not answer the complaints about the value of goods that have now flooded the market. In Article 3, ‘Appointment of specialised services for the execution of co-financed projects’, we agree. Article 4 deals with the question of the grant of wage costs of workers in the Greek Sugar Industry. We agree. But here, Minister, and I want you to notice that, there is a gap in relation to an amendment that you have brought and covered the responsibilities of administrations since 2016, while leaving administrations uncovered for the same possible administrative criminal responsibilities before 2016. And why am I saying this, Mr President? Because a provision came in the draft law that takes the year back from 2016 to 2011 for the OBI workers. Since it has been voted - and as I remember it was voted by a large majority - it should also be for the administrations of the Sugar Industry, Minister, to have a similar provision in relation to criminal responsibilities between 2016 and 2011, as you have already voted in 2016 and then, as we are voting on today for the OBI. With Article 5 on the Lamia Panhellenic Exhibition, we agree. With Articles 6 and 7 on the issues of the OBI, we agree. With Article 8 to extend the possibility of setting up or participating in it, we disagree because it is a 'Tronic Horse' bypassing the application of public bodies rules. We've said that on a continuous basis. Article 9 increases the powers of the economic committees of the municipalities and effectively disguises municipal councils. We disagree. Article 10 is positive because it is taxed as a farm income, resulting from the exploitation of renewable energy sources of up to 500 kW. We believe that it is good because this does not jeopardise farmers' subsidies. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 952 of the Ministry of Development, Article 1 "Definition of specific services as a management qualification", we agree, as with Article 2 "Technical assistance for National Development Programme", Article 3 on the strengthening of international organisations and Article 4 on the extension of contracts of the administrative staff of educational units of Ministry of Tourism" which are in fact faced with staffing problems. I would like, Mr President, to conclude by saying that we should at some point and with the responsibility of the Bureau - and I would like this to be forwarded to the President - that this procedure of amendments containing incoherent articles be stopped. There is no possibility of being voted separately, but they go as a single article. We have also seen twenty-five articles in an amendment. This practice should be stopped. I believe that the current broad consensus that takes the bill on simplifying procedures is a positive signal emanating from the international investment community, that our country is modernising, progressing, is investment-friendly. It now remains to be implemented in practice, and the government must show greater effectiveness in many sub-sectors, to which, Mr Minister, yes - and here comes a good criticism - steps have been taken, but the situation is so demanding that we are not expected to continue at our own traditional pace. We also need to speed up this and, as you have seen, in a series of bills, the opposition is inclined to listen and support such efforts, despite the fact that you too many times with your presence, rather than leading to consensus, are exacerbating the spirits. We understand that. Nevertheless, we agree on this. It is a national effort and perhaps it is the country's last attempt to change its economic model and lead to real productive reconstruction in terms of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr Katrin. I will pass it on to the Conference of Presidents, since you have put it, but I believe that Mr Kegeroglu will also bring it to the next Conference. Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I will be extremely brief. I'm picking up the thread from where Mr. Katrinis left it. It is a bad parliamentary practice that is about to come unconnected amendments. For example, it is not possible to lay down rules which are correct, such as the one in Article 5 for the Lamas Pan-Hellenic Exhibition, but also that in Article 4 for the Greek Sugar Industry, to be tabled in a joint amendment with the provisions of Articles 8 and 9, for which I have already been put down in a negative position. We believe that they deceive the institution of self-government and are deeply undemocratic. If they came separately, for example, we in the first two would vote 'yes' and the other two would vote 'on'. Mr Sarakiotis raised the issues and we developed our positions. I would like to make a point, Minister, on an issue that is out of the question of the bill, but I think it is important because in the abstraction of your speech you have had a report that I think is dangerous. You said that if you don't apply it, you won't. This is a national wrong line. The Embassy Agreement applies and must apply it and monitor it and respect it and honor everyone. And very badly did Zoran Zafe who did this. He said he was wrong. I don't know if he was wrong or if he did it on purpose. But I am not looking at the interests of northern Macedonia, I am looking at the interests of my country, Greece. And the interests of Greece, the interests of Europe, the interests of the Balkans are the patriotic Prespecies Agreement, this very good agreement, which enables the exclusive use of the term "Macedonia" in Greece - no one can use the term "Macedonia" for himself beyond Greece - that must go ahead, fix and deepen. Zoran Zaev's tweet is a pretext and an excuse, Minister, to postpone the deposit of the memorandum of cooperation with northern Macedonia. It is an issue that in public speech and newspapers we have read since October 2020 and Zoran Zaev's tweet occurred in June 2021. So don't be late at all, don't get in the way at all. Promote nationally advantageous agreements. The times we live are fluid, difficult and dynamically changing. The country and the wider neighbourhood need peace, stability, cooperation and co-development. Let the European path of Albania and Northern Macedonia move forward, cut Turkey's penetrating the Western Balkans. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. And we close with Mr. Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in plenary has clearly shown the positive nature of the forecasts contained in the draft law on simplification of the framework for economic activities. It is therefore clear, for example, that the burden of early and effective control of the conditions for entrepreneurial activity must be borne by the appropriate mechanisms and in no case by the citizen. It is therefore clear that sound business action cannot be held hostage to unnecessarily delayed and complicated, nor can any longer respond to any real need. It is clear that we, as a state, must take advantage of all the possibilities offered by technology, but also of taking particular care to look at international best practices to simplify both the conditions for the start-up and operation of the business action that is the main object of this draft law, as well as of the wider trade of citizens with the State. Greece now proves in practice that it can play an international role in the crucial future of our economy and society. We demonstrate that we can radically reform the way the state works, not only by facilitating citizens and businesses in daily transactions, but also by creating new useful services and capabilities. The model of a state of modern, efficient and at the same time effective in its fields of competence is now far beyond traditional ideological starting points and references. As the experience of managing the extraordinary treaty of pandemic and its consequences has shown, in every area of public action, the modern state must, on the one hand, make the most effective use of human material and intangible resources available to the service of the citizen and the public good, and, on the other hand, operate coordinatedly to encourage the activation of the creative forces of free society. We have to restore this, but also to a large extent to rebuild a strong capital of confidence in a state and citizen, a state and a business. And that's what we do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr President. I'm asking for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u295	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u296	Thank you. First of all, in order to restore, in practice, the role of the State as a citizen's aid instead of a power, thereby demonstrating the confidence of the State towards the citizen, instead of the practices which they face as the first suspect of infringements which must prove its innocence, we must strengthen and, where necessary, create the structures and culture needed so that in the event of an unresolved issue in the transaction, the part that will rush to resolve it is the state rather than the citizen. As also, of course - and this has been demonstrated with emphasis at the hearing of the bodies in the committee responsible - we must fully restore the certainty of the implementation of the law with rapid, fair and effective controls and, of course, with the appropriate sanctions for those who violate the law. Flexibility in law enforcement and sanctions, the definition of unclear or inappropriate strict licensing and operating standards or even suspicion of the possibility of dealing under the table, punishes honest and conscientious entrepreneurs and gives unfair advantages to dishonest and unconscious. So the great bet of simplifying the regulatory framework of entrepreneurship, which the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis has consistently and effectively undertaken, is to stop quickly and definitively the unacceptable phenomenon of the cancellation in practice of controls, through the recruitment of even mobile applications informing operators of a region about the arrival of an audit scale. It must stop because businessmen will have nothing to fear, because the cost of complying with what is laid down by law will be small, reasonable, but above all fair, because the specifications will be simple and clear and will not be able to interpret according to what is appropriate, because the control procedure will be incomprehensible and objective and will not be initiated by the assumption that the trader is a wrongdoer, because the certainty of honest and conscientious has nothing to be feared, and on the contrary, the illegal person will pay for his illegality. This deeper change of culture serves the bill we are discussing today. And the extent to which this necessary profound change is achieved will also be judged to be a positive sign of this necessary simplification in the business start-up and operation processes. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would once again urge you to vote in favour of this bill, because it contributes to this much deeper change that will significantly strengthen our country's prospects for creation and preparation. Of course, important amendments have been tabled which solve problems and which are in the right direction, such as a reduction in VAT on the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios, which have structures for hosting refugees. Also, the amendment of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs solves the problem with the travel expenses of Greek Coast Guards, provides an extension of the grant of unemployed to unemployed seamen, solves and regulates problems in port zone concessions and of course supports and grants the Port Agency due to the problems faced by COVID -19. Also positive is the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development to photovoltaics of up to 499 KW, but also to those who have up to 10 rooms in agricultural tourist units, so that they have the right to be mainly 'professional farmers'. It is a request that was made by several farmers. I think we were right to regulate this loose end too. We have also rightly regulated the pendingity regulated by the amendment by the Ministry of Development of Mr Georgiadis, Mr Papathanassis and their partners for the Greek Sugar Industry and the debts owed to the former workers in it. Of course, as I said, it contains and solves problems, such as giving temporary business permits to be extended until the adoption of the General Urban Plan - an amendment to paragraph 15 of Article 42 of Law No 4030/2011 - to professional workshops with low-purpose activities, such as bakery, confectionery workshops, vehicle workshops, which were, of course, working in any way before the law was published, but a gap was created all this time and there was a huge problem. And that's what we solve. So this bill solves problems and is in the right direction to the development dimension that we give our country. That is why I urge you once again to vote on it. Of course, I should like to congratulate the Ministry of Development's leadership because it is taking important steps, as are the other ministries in the new real need for development, because that is what it is all about. The issue is the growth of the economy, it is the creation of new jobs that are better paid. That's the point. That's why we're all fighting. I believe that through steps taken every day by the Government of the New Democracy of the Lord Mitsotakis the target will be achieved. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Adriane. We'll hang up with the Minister, who asked for three minutes, and he'll have them. Minister, I see you're coming from Stepma, so I can't see you talking only three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I will only need three minutes. I've been through everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u299	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u300	In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues. I think we have had a constructive debate both in the committees and in the House. And this bill by the Ministry of Development is passed in a climate of great consensus, as is most of the bills that we have brought to the House so far, which shows that we can at least get to know ourselves. And I agree with what Mr Katrinis said that it is very important for investors to see a consensus in Parliament on economic issues and, above all, investments. I do not think that tones have deteriorated in particular. On the contrary, Mr Tsakalotou's statement on vaccination and SYRIZA's position was another statement of consensus. It can cause some internal issues or a reaction of Mr. Polakis, as, as I read everywhere on all sites, it is interpreted as a resounding permission and renouncement of Polakis by SYRIZA, but this is a small evil. The big picture is that SYRIZA, too, clearly without an escape, also advocated the national effort of mass vaccination and rapid vaccination. At the time we're not discussing - see how much the development was - the special meeting was announced at night for the first appearance of the delta mutation in Greece and the special meeting is held in Crete. So, as you can see, the fear I expressed about the economy was not imaginary, it was not some kind of exaggeration of my own. It is a reality that we have to deal with. And that has nothing to do with being a right-wing, left-wing communist. It's a human matter. We have to deal with it and we have no other way than the vaccine. We need to convince our reluctant fellow citizens. And I want to be honest here. I believe that all of us - I say it publicly - felt a human fear before we made the vaccine. But we have all overcome this human hesitation in order to be able to protect ourselves and our families and the wider society. We must try to do that as much as possible while we can. And I say 'as long as we can' because it is clear from the studies that if people can make the two doses of vaccines before winter, there will be no fourth wave. But if they leave it for winter, because it takes a few weeks to develop an immunity wall, if they leave it at the last minute, it will be a gift of nothing, they will be vaccinated, but they will have no time to develop the immunity wall they need. So we shouldn't waste any time. It's really a matter of life and death the success of the vaccination program. As far as price increases are concerned, Mr Katrin, you know that we are living in a free market system, although not precisely, because on my own initiative a provision has been passed that gives the General Secretariat of the Consumers the opportunity to check the profit margin for basic goods, even though this has increased. That's the kind of checks we do every day. When I say every day, it's every day. And I call on our Greek fellow citizens who are watching us make a complaint, if they have, to the General Secretariat of Consumers, to the four-digit number that we have established in 1520, if they see somewhere really disgraceful. But the increase in prices is also the result of the shamefulness. The price increase comes from the international price rise. At a time when we have an increase in prices throughout the world, because we have an increase in fuel prices, an increase in raw materials prices and a great increase in fares prices. Now, is that a phenomenon that will last a little or a little? I held last Thursday a special meeting at the Bank of Greece to figure out what the assessments of the Bank of Greece are about this. It seems that the initial assessment is that this will be temporary, that it is about the abrupt opening of the economies after a prolonged quarantine, which at the same time led to very high demand to renew their supplies and warehouses all the businesses in the world in the countries that were closed, practically all. This at the same time demand has created price increases. Where demand rises very much, but supply does not increase accordingly, the price increases. However, the estimates are that this in about three months, i.e. until September, will be normalized and prices will begin to deviate and so there is no great fear of inflation. But we will see that and we will watch it as a phenomenon. I should like to say to our fellow citizens that we, because we do not want to stay in words, have created the special application of e-consumer where everyone can go before shopping, put on his mobile the things he wants to buy, and automatically tell him where the application close to home will be able to earn money and find the lowest proportionate prices. Use the e-consumer, money will be earned and you will send a message to entrepreneurs that we are not ready to pay too much profit to anyone. And I can assure you that we carry out checks every day. Two weeks ago, if you remember, I had announced some fines in supermarket chains, so I will not hesitate to reintroduce fines if we see that there is, although I repeat, this issue of margin control was an extraordinary tool that entered because of pandemic. We believe in the free market and its rules. Now, before I close, because I was gone when the incident happened, I saw it on the Internet and I was informed by Mr. Papathanassis, I don't know if Mr. Giannoulis' charge for Mr. Romanos has been deleted from the Minutes, especially the way, the phrase about "children" etc. If these have not been deleted, Mr President, from the Minutes, I think it would be better to delete them. In a consensual debate, such designations are not permitted. To close this issue, too, which has made a lot of fuss, I took the laws of Mr. Papathematopoulos and Mr. Kontonis, just to see why this very large explosion of Mr. Paraskevi was caused, and I found that the Law of Friday was not the exception for the rapists, whereas the Contonis Law, that is to say, the time-limiting of the Act of Paraskevi as was done with Mr. Kontonis, entered this exception. So Mr. Paraskevi is poorly ventilated. His own legislative initiative did not exclude this crime. What can we do now? I don't think we left anything else unanswered. The bill, as has been rightly said, is a bill that speeds up economic activity and I assure you that we will bring more such bills that will speed up economic activity and any party has an idea that we have probably not thought about speeding up economic activity, we are extremely in favour of legislating it. We don't claim the wisdom of the universe. You should bring it to us, if you have a good idea in a certain sector, something has left us, even though the work of these three bills was very detailed, long-term, in cooperation with the World Bank, with the Secretary-General of the Ministries, with representatives of the branches. This job wasn't done on the leg, it was done with a lot of trouble. The bill seems simple, but it's not simple at all, because it's highly technical. It has a great deal of trouble and a great deal of effort to simplify it without jeopardising public health, public safety. That was the problem of such a type of legislative initiative. I believe that we have reached the best possible point and you will see that, like the previous ones, they will start making people's lives better. I am very grateful to all my fellow Members and, above all, to the parties supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Minister. Of course, for what you have asked for, we must also see the protagonists. I saw it online, too. I was at the conference. I'm sorry, but they must ask themselves. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is closed: 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities within the competence of the Ministries of Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport, Health and Tourism, arrangements for productive activities and other provisions for strengthening development'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty articles, of five amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u302	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u303	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u304	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities within the competence of the Ministries of Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport, Health and Tourism, arrangements for productive activities in support of development and other urgent arrangements’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u306	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-24-S1-commons.u307	With Parliament's consent at 18.00 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 25 June 2021, at 9.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) Topical and urgent debate and b) Topical and urgent debate. 22/17/19-4-2021 topical and urgent question.
