ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Today is the International Democracy Day. Before entering the agenda and on behalf of all the parliamentary groups as President-in-Office I shall say a few words. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased today to honour with you in two words this year's International Democracy Day, a day that was formally introduced fourteen years ago by the United Nations General Assembly. Today's milestone refers for many reasons to a rich, multifactorial phenomenon, which especially for all of us here in the valley of parliamentaryism is interlinked with various - mainly fertile - challenges. Democracy by its etymology already implies the dominance stemming from the complicity of those who hold political rights and work for them. In its ideal form - as Violence the Prince describes it, one of the seven wise men of antiquity - it is stated that "state is a democracy, that everyone as a tyrant fears the law", a strong democracy we have, that is, when the law resulting from the city is the subject of absolute respect by the people and its representatives. For our ancestors, this law was the opposite and mainly the antidote of violence. The Greeks on the ground were wars of violence, despised war and arbitraryness. From this very beginning, Athenian democracy began and was for Greece, according to Thucydides at the "Epitafio of Pericles", a living lesson, a treatment, a education. On these concepts and with the pre-existing dowry of Solon and Clisthene, the current form of democracy for the younger Western civilization would be formed within the next centuries. Values such as love for freedom, tolerance, pluralism, pluralism without nationalist extremism, bravery, defending the law and the unjust persons have been universal values and a fertile heritage for the inhabited, a legacy that has led to the consolidation of democratic institutions and human rights at all the lengths and backs of the planet, a legacy that has been the foundation of the vision and Europe after World War II. In its present form democracy is the civility that its authority stems from the people, is exercised by the people and works for the people. However, through modern practice, we find that it has been through several stages of crisis, questioning and even decline. On a global scale we are witnessing the discount of a system of genuine, comprehensive democracy at economic, social, political and ecological levels. When we see the deterioration of social contribution, the shrinking of collectively acquired assets and the exacerbation of lawlessness, then we understand that the redefinition of the dominant political system is a one-way path for humanity. This is a difficult but necessary process to identify pathogens and to propose new strategies to eliminate them. This, of course, is not only about the whole political world, but also about the citizens, because, as harmful as a lack of will in politics can be, so harmful is the apathy of the citizens, cynicism, demoralization and indifference of common and political things. Montesquieu said that the tyranny of a ruler in an oligarchy is not as dangerous to the common good as the apathy of citizens in a democracy and was not wrong. It is what Thucydides said by defining the characteristics of the free state, that is to say it must be autonomous, self-declared and self-evident. In order to achieve this today, each of us as individuals and as political entities should be able to provide ourselves with a law, namely a stable personal system of values and rules that ensures our participation in the real establishment of society, as Kastoriadis said. This practically means that, in order to have a reason and perception of things, we should be able to train ourselves from individual to collective level to uninterruptedly on social practice not only through our schools, but also through family, company, neighborhoods, media and networking. Only through day-to-day experience and constant reflection can autonomous people be born, on the one hand, able to properly regulate their own lives and, on the other, actively participate in the definition of the laws governing their social life and the functioning of the democratic culture. Under this perspective democracy can be reborn, touching upon the needs of modern life in an autonomous society that itself will rule itself. The present and the future of democracy concern us all, citizens and politicians and its regeneration can emerge collectively through our passion for commons, through responsibility and active participation, that is, through the edge of the passion of its citizens who want to build a state that is functional, fair and bold, a state - model, equal to its ancestors, a city - of values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing this House on Friday 17 September 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Katrugalos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "Actions to Rescue and Safe Transfer of Afghan citizens of Greek interest". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1048/13-9-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Protection and support for households and especially vulnerable persons, following the wave of appreciation of basic consumer goods'. 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "From Eye to Evia. Criminally refusing to implement the proposals of the Goldmer Pact on the restructuring of forest fire extinguisher." B. PERSONS OF second-circuit Questions (Articles 130(2) and 3 and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1037/10-9-2021, a topical question by MP B3's South Athens section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "This year you are closing municipal centres for the Creative Employment of Children (CEDAP) and you are sacking workers, and every year sixty-five thousand children are out of CEDEFOP." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1041/13-9-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Requirement of the voluntary fire-fighting movement and misuse of the fire brigade volunteers of the Fire brigade". 3. The question raised by Mr Alexandros Triantafylides on the subject: "The government will not turn its back on the renowned Pontian expatriates. To provide an immediate solution to the question of their housing loans.' 4. Under No 1051/13-9-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Control in OTA recruitment notices, which do not meet the principle of merit and equal opportunities". 5. Under No 1052/13-9-2021, a topical question by Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The next actions of the Greek side on German compensation on the basis of the Greek Parliament's findings". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 7730/2-7-2021 of the SYRIZA Member of State - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "On the occasion of the administration of the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia - Nea Halkidoni of the street lighting to private individuals". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 8455/6-8-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Extremely delayed involvement of the multitude of fire-fighting air and earth-based instruments and the personnel of the Armed Forces in the repression of burning fires". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that three questions will be discussed today, in which, on all three occasions, the Secretary-General of Education, Mr Zetta Macrey, will answer. So we begin with our first question under number 1042/13-9-2021 by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Support measures for assistant teachers for their accommodation in the location areas". Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u3	We think that the issue we are discussing today on working conditions and, more generally, on living conditions especially in this category of teachers is extremely topical. Is this a category of teachers who have been numbering thousands, who have been every year - twenty, thirty years? - with a suitcase in the hand they wander across every corner of Greece in order to cover, of course, elementary, real educational needs. They're recruited at best in the autumn. Or rather they start recruiting in the autumn, recruitment may continue until the next spring. They are fired in the summer and, of course, they are unknown if and when they will work next year. The years go by and most of them - and very well they did - have families, have children who naturally leave in order to work where they are placed. They are educators who are poorly paid and, indeed, several times, their salaries are not paid in time, they do not have full insurance rights and they are not entitled to be sick during a school year. They are educators who, in short, all their governments face as second-class teachers, unfortunately, even on an extremely important issue, Minister, on the issue of maternity and child rearing. So these teachers today have come to be about 30% of all teachers. So, as we have said, these substitutes as real nomadics in the "nomad land" of Greek education and in fact replace themselves. They are faced, of course, every time very acute problems because it is not easy to move from northern Greece to island Greece or to southern Greece. The tickets we know where they've arrived. There, when they go, the glider must begin to find a home, which is extremely difficult to make in many cases. We all remember surrogate scenes sleeping in their cars in the past few years. They have to give, if they find, great sums to rent a house and anyway the money, until they get paid, if they have, they don't get enough. And all that makes sense is how much they contribute to being in a calm mental state so that they go to school the other day and work with the children. So we ask you, Minister, to ensure that we do not exaggerate ourselves, that you do what your Ministry will do, so that these people, those teachers, have the right to free first-hand movement - as we say - from their area where they are placed, to have the rent allowance, the heating allowance, to have the right to free feeding to student clubs, where they exist, in officers' clubs where they exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Deli, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. The rights of alternates and officials must be equated. There can't be two speed workers in schools, Minister. And, of course, all the gaps have to be covered in teachers - and I will say them in my dentistry - by simulation, because that is the realistic demand today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I will begin by wishing you many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u9	Mr Colleague, as you know, our Ministry is strengthening our schools with eleven thousand permanent appointments to general education, the first after twelve years and then the last four and a half thousand in special education first in the educational process. Under Joint Resolution 88602 of the Ministers for Education and Religious Affairs and Finance, the number of approved posts to be paid by the appointment of permanent teachers by industry, specialization or specialization was determined. In primary education, six thousand two hundred jobs were set, four thousand ninety-sixty positions in secondary music schools and five hundred forty. With regard to the planning of recruitment of assistants and orchids of primary and secondary education under a fixed-term private law contract for the school year 2021-2022, credits are available using the co-financed section of our Ministry's Public Investment Program for the recruitment of four thousand seven hundred alternates and staff members of teachers, as well as special educational and special assistant staff lasting ten months, forty-seven thousand man-months. The provisions of Law 4821/2021 allow the use of resources from the co-financed section of our Ministry's Public Investment Program for the payment of temporary deputies of primary and secondary education teachers and members of specialist and special assistant staff to be recruited in the context of the action to address the negative consequences of the emergence and dispersion of COVID -19. Apart from this, for each school year to meet the needs of the primary and secondary schools as well as special education and education establishments and structures, credit is available from the National Strategic Reference Framework. In accordance with the legislation in force which determines the recruitment of temporary deputies and orthodox teachers, they shall not be provided and may not be permanently permanent. In relation to the recruitment of alternates, I inform you that on 26-8-2021, that is, before the start of the school year, twenty-five thousand five recruits of teachers were made in primary and secondary general education, twenty-nine of them were made available to Sivitanide, but special treatment as temporary substitutes for full-time and reduced working hours in relation to fixed-term private law, and obviously the relevant decisions of our Ministry were made for the 2021-2022 teaching year. On 27-8-2021, there were now two hundred and twenty-two recruitments as a branch of the IP05 French and IP07 German in primary general education. In other words, twenty thousand five hundred sixty-seven assistant teachers have been recruited in total. I would also like to stress that our Ministry, with actions to promote the recruitment and increase of assistants in our schools, provides for the employment of substitutes through the NSRF to support pre-school education, for the operation of the single type of full-day primary school due to the introduction of the Greek language into pre-school education, for the support of the upgrading of musical education for musical schools, for the support of primary and secondary school units by psychologists and social workers, for the strengthening of teaching in secondary schools, for the reinforcement of special courses, for the payment of assistants and orthodox teachers, as well as of special educational and assistant staff, for the payment of temporary assistants and special and assistant staff, and for the support. I'll answer my dentistry in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. In the preamble of the Minister, there have been some answers, not of course, to the issues that we have raised quite clearly. We will insist on that. I would like to start by saying that these flexible working relationships in the public sector, which are starting in 1990 and officially, although in training the alternates had started a long time ago, covered the needs that really existed, if, for example, an instructor had a serious health problem or a pregnancies. They were a few hundred. To see how much the phenomenon of flexicurity of replacement has entered education, I would like to tell you that in 2010 the substitute teachers were 8% of the total and are now close to 30%. In ten to eleven years, that is, we have literally launch and triple and more than substitute teachers. Meanwhile, between 2010 and today, some forty-five to fifty-thousand teachers have retired - that is what the figures say - which of course need to be replaced. And instead of being replaced by permanent appointments, they are replaced with the assistant teachers. That is why we have the extension of the replacement effect. The work of the deputy, this flexible work, is preferable throughout the European Union, not only in education, and for economic reasons, because they cost less in the state. As a substitute, this employment relationship probably adds more elastic teachers workers. We have an increase in vulnerable work. He's preferable in any case, and that's why we're seeing him expand. In fact, your Government, Minister, has even exploited the pandemic to bring another form of flexible work to teachers, among the many things that exist. There are reduced working time alternates, alternates, alternates paid by the NSRF. Now you have also brought the substitutes for the three-month employment, that is to say we have a variety of working tyres. You said about the assignments and I want to stand here. You spoke of eleven thousand seven hundred assignments. The numbers are ruthless, Minister. Last year, the government hired you fifty - two thousand substitutes. This summer, eight thousand teachers were retired. So sixty thousand are the teachers who need to be recruited this year in education - they should already have been recruited. You have appointed eleven thousand seven hundred - twelve thousand I will say - plus twenty-five thousand alternates you took in the first phase, make us thirty-seven thousand. So today there is a need - that is what simple arithmetics says - for twenty-three-three-three-three-three teachers to operate in elementary terms like last year. Therefore, gaps remain. That is why we say that, in fact, the request - which is timely today - is the simulation of all those who work as substitutes because they actually replace themselves and replicate gaps in the retirement of teachers. You said that you prevented the Constitution, Article 103. You know - we'll say it again - you remind us of the patron sanctuary, who, at the time he's tried, is asking for court's courtesy because he was an orphan. You voted, Minister, under Rule 103 with SYRIZA, together with the Change Movement - in 2001, I would remind you - and since then you have insisted for twenty years, as you have insisted on the recent revision of the Constitution not to change it. And then you come in and call for it that you can't perpetuate them. Nevertheless, we say that once again you can make them contracts for indefinite duration, if you like. It's your political choice not to. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case - to close - it is your political choice not to give this less than EUR 1 billion. You know, studies published on educational sites say that to appoint fifty thousand teachers will need less than EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u12	Close, Mr. Delia. Help the process a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u13	You do not give that less than EUR 1 billion. You prefer to give more than EUR 4 billion. This year you have given more than EUR 6 billion for naval spending. They're choices - what do we do? - and that's what they characterize you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u14	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u15	However, the request for them to be permanent and, above all, the request...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Delia, I can't leave you any more. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u17	...to equilibrium their rights with the rest of the teachers remains and we want an answer for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u18	It is a timely question, not a timely question! At last let's put a self-discipline. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the numbers are vague, but they are also revealing. When we promised that we would do five and a half thousand assignments and do more than double and add the appointments made in special treatment for the first time in time, I think a little praise would not hurt and not just aggressive placement. Subsequent teachers shall serve temporary and exceptional operational needs during the teaching year when they cannot be met by the existing civil servants. So, for reasons of public interest, fixed-term contracts are concluded in accordance with Article 103 - which I do not invoke as an excuse, but as an explanation - and in accordance with educational legislation. I said it in my prototype, because you, too, have come back to your dentistry. The legislation defining the recruitments of assistant teachers does not provide for their permanent appointment and there is in this regard a decision number 527/2015 of the Council of State, where the provisions on appointment only with the term of office were deemed to be unconstitutional, much more unconstitutional and not audited by the AACC by the independent personnel selection authority. However, I would like to stress that work experience, pre-service - whether public or private - is included in the final evaluation tables of the AACC. With regard to your question about the recognition of a service throughout the period of leave - it is included in your written question - I would mention that, for the training service, account is taken of the total duration of the actual training service of the temporary alternate in the sector for which the candidates are nominated, irrespective of the educational structure in which it has been carried out. Subsequently, the 2012 Circular of the Ministry of Education states that any licence granted beyond 15 days a total of 15 days per year cannot be counted as a teaching experience within the meaning of Article 6(4) of Law 3027/2002, and that a sick leave may not be counted as a real service beyond 15 days, which the deputies are entitled to. Also in relation to the licenses you ask in your question, the existing general framework is defined by Law 993/1979 in Chapter IV rather than by the provisions of the Financial Code, since the alternates are not permanent. Their licence status is therefore differentiated, and in accordance with Article 50 of Law 3528/2007 also applies to substitutes for a special training licence of twenty-two days, a special leave of six days on the grounds of invalidity, the granting of special licences to legal entities. In accordance with Article 23 of Presidential Decree No 410/1998, a child's health certificate shall be issued to the Deputy Educational Licence, a child's performance monitoring licence proportionately and in accordance with the duration of the Convention. Special-purpose licences shall also apply to alternates, in accordance with the legislative act of 14-320, where no distinction is made between permanent and alternate. Breeding licences shall be subject to a different institutional framework, except in the case of a reduction of two hours per week until the child has completed two years of age. For the free movement of your deputies, I have to say that there has been a 50% discount on the ferry tickets for the movement of all primary and secondary teachers, after joint intervention by our Ministry and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, which is from 30-8-2021 and is valid until 30-9-2021, that is to say, for their return. Rental and heating and feeding subsidies are municipal decisions. There are some municipalities that responded. I mention the Municipality of Mykonos. They are also being implemented - more than what I mentioned in my protolog - in the year 2021-2022 the operational programme of the operation, a programme of measures of specialised educational support for disabled or special educational needs, with employment of substitutes for special education and training and assistants for special education and assistants for the staff of the special education and training units and of the integration departments. Twelve operational programmes are implemented in the regions, where there are special educational staff, i.e. school nurses, special assistant staff for students and students who cannot help themselves - the budget is EUR 13 million - and an operational total budget of EUR 151 million in the context of employment of parallel support from teachers in the class for students and students with disabilities or special educational needs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u20	Good. We move to the second under number 1034/8-9-2021 on a topical question for the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Maria Athanasiou, to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Dead teachers have, unknownly, a place of teaching at a School of Secondary Education in Piraeus, where the HEI students, without being deaf, can communicate only through a speech with the teachers". Here, Mrs Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President, for many years today for your nominal holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u23	Minister, to our great surprise, we have recently received a protest from parents of students at the 1st ECEK of Piraeus, which is an educational institution of special education that receives students with all disabilities, but with a vast majority, with mental delay and autism. According to the above complaint, in the two previous school years the staff of that school are included teaching teachers who are deaf, but are not able to use the sign language, the youngsters of that school. Therefore, these students are basically deprived of the elementary communication with the teacher, which is a abolition of their right to education and discrimination against them, as compared to the rest of the children of the typical development schools or of Greece's special education, which is not lawful in the Constitution and the European Charter of Human Rights. We note that you have been informed in writing about the above with the protocol numbers entered into your office 12198/26-11-19, but you have so far not answered the parent who has denounced the above. In view of the above, is the Minister asking: Firstly, with what reason was chosen by the relevant department of the region under the jurisdiction of your Ministry, the placement of persons with disabilities and inability to speak as teachers in the 1st PIRAEC, where the speech is the only and sole means of communication of a teacher with the young children - pupils of that school? I would like to point out the inability to speak, because in order to speak - the teachers must first listen. Secondly, do you intend to transfer these teachers to special schools hosting students in deafening and in the Attica basin, or to transfer them to other departments of your Ministry or the wider public sector where it is possible to provide work on their part without speech, so that they do not be deprived of the speaker and are taught by the Greek students of the 1st EEAE Piraeus?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u24	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u25	I will reply by referring to my prology what policy is followed by our Ministry and details in my denology. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as a Ministry, support special schools with the necessary staff, implement actions aimed at promoting equal access for pupils, pupils and young people with disabilities to education at all its levels. According to Law 3699/2008 Article 8 and amendments to Law 4415/2016, Special Education Laboratories are school units of secondary education, cover the compulsoryity of secondary education and administratively fall within the relevant secondary education management. The attendance at the Special Education Labs lasts six classes and follows the detailed and timeliness, as provided by the relevant provisions, in accordance with the specific educational needs of pupils and pupils, as described in the personalised training programmes implemented for all pupils and students. The qualitative upgrading of the Special Vocational Education Labs and, more generally, the optimisation of the services provided in secondary vocational education for students are issues of absolute priority for our Ministry, with the aim of continuously improving actions and policies in the field of integration of all levels. Therefore, the immediate strategic planning of our Ministry has been integrated and the restructuring of the structures mentioned in the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the final development of a plan to modernise the curriculum curriculum by specialising in professional areas and specialities. For the special education and training units in region I of Piraeus, which is owned by the 1st Piraeus Special Training Laboratory, nominations and recruitments were carried out in accordance with the criteria specified in Law 4589/2019, in which the disability of the candidate and of the members of his family is 50% or more is a social criterion and which provides for their special moleculation for the ranking tables of candidates drawn up by the AEPA, with the sole limitation that the disability is not due to mental illness. In addition, the placement of teachers from transferring to empty organic posts takes place in accordance with all their molecules, and if they have the qualifications to be appointed and disability is not due, as I have said before, to mental health. In addition, the Public Staff Code in Article 7 ‘health’ states: ‘As officials, those who have health, who allow them to carry out their duties, are appointed to carry out their duties. The absence of physical skills shall not prevent appointment, provided that the staff member with appropriate and justified technical support can perform the duties of the respective post. Specific provisions for the appointment of disabled persons shall not be affected.’; Like I said, I'll give my dentistry details.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, you have not responded directly to the problem we have with children with disabilities. These kids, if they have teachers who are deaf, though they speak, can't communicate. We are experiencing a kind of racism, on the one hand, against these children, because they are deprived of the right to learn elementary, writing and reading for more than a year, since they cannot communicate with these teachers. This is because, although the latter speak, they cannot listen to the students. Imagine a kid falling down and you don't understand why they don't listen. On the other hand, it is racism for both deaf teachers who are not in schools for deaf children, where they could use signifiably to provide real educational work. The state, therefore, mistakenly considers that it has got them into society. He actually misled them, giving them a wage, but without object on the substance. You'll tell me, but they can contact the kids after they're talking to sign language. Signually they cannot understand children with mentally delayed syndrome. And teachers, even though they speak to some extent, cannot listen to children. So, how are they gonna stand in the classroom? In fact, then, communication between them becomes a deficit. Truly, to what extent do you think that an interaction can be achieved in such conditions? In addition, can you tell us how deaf children are attending this school? Are there any or are they children with other kinds of disabilities? So we're telling you it's probably like this. Their placement in a school that is not strictly deaf and hard children is therefore considered not only unfortunate, but also degrading for these underprivileged teachers, who are not ultimately in a school environment where they could provide educational work efficiently. This is because it is a school whose potential is made up of disabled children of such a nature that poses problems of behaviour, adaptation, children with self-service issues. Even if some of them because of their syndrome have any effects on hearing or vision, they could in no case be defined as purely deaf and severe. I repeat that even with the use of semantics there can be no communication. Minister, in addition to the specialities that should teach writing and reading skills to students, specialties that would be useful to such a school and would help the Ministry of Education to show his education and humanitarian services would be censors, therapists and specialist psychologists who could practically support these children and their families who feel great insecurity, give them joy, make them feel creatively, help them integrate into society and ease the pain of their families. And I'm telling you from personal experience. It does not, therefore, cover us if you are legally guaranteed in the placement of these teachers. Anything in health does not give satisfactory results, I consider it immoral. In any event, in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Article 7, the interest of HEIs children is of primary importance. In this case, the right to equal treatment, based on the Constitution, is affected by the children of the 1st European Union vis-à-vis their classmates in the other schools of Piraeus, since discrimination is also unfavourable vis-à-vis small and medium-sized students on the part of the Ministry. For more than a school year, students of HEIs should not be excluded from the school course. The state must maximize the interest of young children in a school. Furthermore, with respect to diversity, the state must move the specific teachers and place them in the wider public sector either in special schools for deafness students and make sure that it creates additional special schools beyond the two that exist, thus showing respect for our fellow citizens and the sincere mood for their essential social integration. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u28	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I'll answer as sober as possible. I understand what my colleague has said. I don't justify it, but I understand it. Ladies and gentlemen, equal access to the education of students and students in the Special Vocational Training Labs is guaranteed by horizontal dissemination of actions in all areas of social and professional life, as well as by the promotion of their inclusive education through teaching and learning in a friendly school environment. In response to your question, we know that in the 1st Workshop for Special Vocational Education of Piraeus there are two educational deaf persons of specialty PI02, namely Philologists, and PE08 of artistics appointed by the FEK 218/2005 and FEK 792/2009 respectively. In addition to these teachers, this school has been run by sufficient staff in recent years, both to teachers of the necessary qualifications and to specialist training staff, so as to meet the educational and social needs of students and pupils as far as possible. For example, for the 2018-2019 school year, the staff amounted to fifty-four teachers, of which three Philologists and five Artists. It's not just the teachers you're talking about. For the school year 2019-2020, in a total of 11 students, the staff amounted to fifty-five teachers, of which four Philologists and six Artists. For the school year 2020-2021, in a total of one hundred and twenty-four students, staff amounted to sixty-seven teachers, of which three Philologists and five Artists. Depending on the teaching needs created, they are recruited and their alternates are recruited. With regard to the transfer of a teacher you mentioned - because, I regret to say this, teachers are discriminatory here - there must be a prior request from him in accordance with Presidential Decree 50 of 1996. Of the above, my fellow Member, it is clear that in any case students and students in the school unit are supported and trained in full. Although there are no students with sensory hearing disabilities in this school, the teachers you are referring to are actively and creatively contributing to the education of all disabilities and disabilities students or special educational needs, in terms of parity, and let us recognise this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u30	Well, Mrs. Undersecretary, because from personal experience I know you're a realist and you're giving solutions, look at this. Why does one not say that the two deaf teachers will lose their place, but if children underneath are not deaf and do not know sign language, how will they be taught? Look at it and I know that you will give the realistic solution. One has not called into question the number of teachers, which is indeed so, with a sufficient degree, as you have said. We move to the first under number 1045/13-9-2021 of the second cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Syngaki, on the subject: "Direct recruitment of the necessary staff in the special schools, the accession departments and the parallel support". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President, and many years for your nominal holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u33	Minister, and this year very serious staff shortages are recorded in special education structures, especially schools, inclusion departments, parallel support. It concerns disabilities, with special learning needs in need of complex multidisciplinary support. These deficiencies, of course, follow up last year when the operation of special schools was implemented without substantially, pedagogical and health measures, without infrastructure and instruments, while the other structures, branches of integration and individualised support, on substance, have remained closed for many months, thus accumulating educational, emotional and social gaps. The fourth wave of the pandemic is under way. Cases are expected to be a lot both in formal schools and in especially much more. Recruitment of all the staff needed had to exceed last year's recruitment to take the necessary measures to avoid confusing classes or not to create gaps from the illness of staff and to continue scientific and pedagogical work. For example, in special schools of primary school, the recruitment of all specialists, specialist teachers, therapists, therapists, psychologists and other specialities are seven hundred and fifty fewer. Once 30% of applications for parallel support have been covered, while only those approved last year, with no account being taken of the other ones that emerged from the new school year, have to be taken into account. What does that mean? It means that, instead of one child, teachers should have at the same time two and three children. In addition, many branches of integration are closed. I won't take you too far, I won't tell you about all of Greece. At Byron, 6th and 7th Primary School. In other words, the irreversible attitude of the Ministry of Education continues not only to take practical measures to protect from the pandemic, but to deprive children of disabilities and special learning difficulties for the qualified teacher, scientist, assistant staff. Two key educational institutions that enhance the practice and the learning process, the educational support of disabled or special educational needs that helps the child to join the school environment are threatened. So we ask you, Minister: what do you intend to do to fill all the gaps that exist throughout all the staff needed for all the specialities, for the permanentisation of all substitutes and cleaning personnel? And secondly, what you intend to do to reduce the proportion of students by class, for extra routes for the safe transport of students, mass tests, case tracing, enhancement of primary health care in connection with special schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u34	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, our Ministry, in response to its commitments to take and implement actions aimed at promoting equal access for children and young people with disabilities to integration and special education at all levels, has gone ahead with strengthening special schools - I mentioned it before and in my reply to Mr Delis - with a permanent appointment of four and a half thousand teachers in special education from last year, which was the first in educational times. So your objection that we are annoyed in this matter is probably not supported by facts and figures. Our concern - I repeat what I said to my colleague Mr Delis - is not only confined to special education, but also to general education, since we are supporting schools with eleven thousand seventeen hundred permanent appointments after twelve years. For all of us, our main concern is that those who manage the positions of special educational staff, as well as the special assistant staff, have a direct relationship with the special educational and everyday needs, for each case a student, and are appropriately trained to support the student and the student in the school unit fully. Because this is the only way to increase the quality of the education provided in terms of parity, but also through the rational distribution of our teachers and their appropriate use. At the same time, under the law that we recently passed, Law 4823 entitled "School upgrading, strengthening the educational and other provisions", the Centres for Interdisciplinary Assessment of Advisory and Support were strengthened, and for the first time a thousand organic posts of psychologists and social workers were set up to serve the Interdisciplinary Support Committees of our school units of general education to ensure equal access for all students to education and to promote their mental health. CEDEFOPs were also strengthened with CEDEFOP staff with CEDEFOP staff with sixteen-sixteen-stop shops, nine-six-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-s-st-st-s, multist-s-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-s Since the educational process is extremely dynamic, it is not possible to follow any new recruitments to meet existing needs or those that will arise during the school year for our students and students at a later stage. With regard to the recruitment of school cleaners to meet school-leaving needs, we had already submitted a request to the competent department of the Ministry of Home Affairs and, of course, to the General Accounting Office of the State and as a result the Committee of the PHS 33/2006 decided to initiate the recruitment procedures by the municipalities of fifteen thousand four hundred and eighty-two persons as cleaning staff in school units of the country, with employment relationships of a fixed term of part-time or full-time private employment of equal to the teaching year in primary and secondary schools, including the minority schools of responsibility of the relevant municipalities, as well as the maximum number of hours of daily employment of the staff. The Minister responsible, Mr Vorides, also declared the increase in hours and the increase in staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u37	Madam Secretary, as far as equal access is concerned, I think the figures speak for themselves. According to data, which the JRC does not say, the rate of pupils in special education and education in Greece is one of the lowest in Europe, ranges from 1.8% to 2.9% compared to the general school population. So let's get this straight. You know, on the issues of early diagnosis you mentioned, you maintain the legal framework of SYRIZA. SYRIZA introduced it, you continue it. There is no early diagnosis of the substance on a purely scientific basis. The first approach is made at school, not by experts, by teachers themselves. And when and if this first treatment fails, he goes to the experts. Yeah, but it's been a very long and critical time. You will have to answer us this question: you have told us the number of recruitments to qualified staff, etc. It is true - in your protology you raised the issue - or is it not that this year's primary school is seven hundred and fifty-nine less recruits than last year and why? You've got to answer us. Don't generally tell us numbers. Needly to determine numbers and recruitments. The policy of all governments - so that we do not blame one thing - goes from everywhere, Minister: shortcomings in skilled educational staff, inadequate measures against pandemic, bad building infrastructure. All of this together makes the daily life of students - teachers unresponsive, forbidden for effective scientific and pedagogical intervention, with parents raising the cross of the witness without any substantial support from the state. For lack of staff, I would say that it is a real blow to the needs of students to cut back on parallel support. This oral directive, which you gave as a Ministry, on the basis of which Directorates of Education were invited to declare the gaps in parallel support - special assistants and school nurses - grouped together and on the condition that their number does not exceed two per school unit, was unacceptable. Inadmissible! From where and until where, the Ministry, the Government, a Minister determines what the needs of disabled people are and not science itself, while for each child with special learning, educational needs, health problems or disability, should the relevant employee be recruited? With this directive, therefore, the recruitment of teachers in parallel support has been greatly reduced, so that many children remain without or lacking support and, in fact, after almost two years of tele-television and the gaps created by the criminal governmental management of the pandemic. I would remind you of Law 4186 on Arvanitopoulos - it was not the law of the Ministry of Education - and Article 28 relating at that time to the Ministry of Education, where private support from general education was extended to specific education, by obliging the already charged parents to cover their own subsistence and thousands of gaps that are never fully covered, nor on time. Thus, private parallel support was, in essence, a one-way road to support these children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u38	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u39	You are implementing this policy today and, of course, you have not taken any action at all - and I am ending with that, Mr President - against pandemic. This year's schools are unprepared. They opened up with a container, with panel halls, with divisions, while you had all the time in front of you to solve issues, i.e. get additional teachers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u40	Please complete it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u41	...split the sections in two, strengthen the cleaning staff. None of this has been done in the name of costs. Now make important decisions, because it will be too late on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u42	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I will ask for your tolerance for a while, because I have to have the figures to tell my colleague about what he has said, saying at the beginning of my position that televising in special education was not there. They didn't close at all, according to the experts' instructions. He had no scientific documentation to close down. You obviously didn't hear what I said in the protology about cleaning staff hires. It doesn't matter. It's registered. So I say to you that the recruitment of one-stage assistants for the year 2021-2022 for the year 2021-2022 for the special educational staff - psychologists, social workers, school nurses - is more than five hundred ninety-eight in relation to the previous school year, in addition to the four thousand five hundred permanentities I have said in my prototype. Altogether, four thousand four hundred sixty-sixty-sixty-six members of special training staff and special assistant staff were recruited compared to the three thousand eighty-sixty-two recruitments for the first phase that took place last year. More detailed: Thousands of sixty-eight in special education and training schools from eight hundred sixty-five that took place last year. Thousands of eight hundred and fifty-seven in specialized educational support - that is to say, parallel support - from a thousand eight hundred seventy-four years ago. Six hundred and six in interdisciplinary evaluation, advisory and support centres, the KEDSY, from five hundred thirteenths last year. Eight hundred twenty-nine in educational support networks in the KEDSY since six hundred ten that took place last year. For primary and secondary school teachers specialising in special education from the data I give you, the following are shown: For the school year 2021-2022 recruitment in the first phase reached eight thousand four hundred fifteen, compared with seven thousand seventy, which took place for the school year 2020-2021 last year. More detailed: Eight hundred fifty recruitments of substitutes for Special Education and Educational Primary Schools for the Schools of Special Education and Training and Integration Departments for six hundred and twenty, which took place last year. Five thousand six hundred sixty sixty-seven six primary school teachers were also recruited for the parallel support of disabled pupils and special educational needs compared with four thousand six hundred twenty-nine who took place last year. Further, a hundred and seventy - three teachers were recruited at the Primary Special Education and Education at the CEDEFOP as compared with a hundred fifty - nine who were held last year. Six hundred and seventy-eight special education and training teachers in secondary education were recruited for the Schools of Special Education and Education in Secondary Education and for the Integration Departments for six hundred ten who took place last year. Nine hundred and sixteen teachers of Special Education, Education, Sectors and Secondary Education ID02, IP03 and IP04 were recruited for the parallel support of disabilities pupils and pupils and special educational needs for nine hundred forty who took place last year. Also, thirty - two secondary education teachers were recruited for HR02, IP03 and IP04 in KEDASH for a hundred and twelve years last year. In other words, a total of 12 thousand eight hundred seven hundred and seventy-five alternate specialists of Special Education and Education and members of the special educational and assistant staff for the first phase of the school year 2021-2022 were recruited for ten thousand nine hundred thirty two recruited last year in the same period. For the special schools, priority has already been given to the pandemic principle when the vaccine was allowed, the vaccination of teachers, special educational staff, special assistant staff and pupils and pupils aged 16 and over. In accordance with the recent Joint Ministerial Decision 5525/2021 in Article 20(4), protection measures are provided for the transport of pupils in school units of primary, secondary and vocational education, there is an increase in bus services carrying disabilities pupils due to their difficulty in using a mask and a new route is fully approved by the relevant departments of the relevant regional units on a proposal made by the relevant training managers. So our Ministry takes as much care as possible to support and protect themselves...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u44	Complete, Mrs. Macrie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u45	...students and students at the beginning of the school year in terms of parity to upgrade the quality of the education provided. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that there will be new recruitments to cover existing needs or needs that will arise during the school year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u46	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. We'll have a break by 10.25 and come back with legislative work. I would ask the secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups - which I see only New Democracy being present - to send their rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives to begin exactly 10.25 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "New Framework for the welfare of pet animals - "ARGOS" Programme and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior". The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy ‘Lecture a Code of Law on Integrated Maritime Policy in the Island Area and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of the transport equivalent’. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'New framework for the welfare of pets' - 'ARGOS' programme and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 September 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and all. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that rapporteurs, special speakers, Parliamentary Representatives, a first cycle involving one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the ratio of five New Democracy, three SYRIZA, a Change Movement, Communist Party of Greece, Greek Solution and Mera25 should participate. A teleconference service or physically present is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Now, be careful, I will first give Mr Petsa five minutes' speech to present his amendment so that the rapporteurs and the speakers take it into account. Then I will give the floor for a corresponding year to Mr Syrigo to present and support an amendment from the Ministry of Education, and then we shall begin the process. The Minister and the Bureau have already been asked to speed up the formal adoption of legislative improvements - the ones agreed yesterday in the committee and you know them orally by the Minister - so that they can also be tabled in time if not all - perhaps the first and second speakers are not to prevent them - but the others will have them before them so that they can be taken into account in your statement. Mr Petsa, you have the floor for five minutes for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. The amendment with a general number of 1066 and a special 111 from 14-9-2021 regulates various aspects of the operation of the TAs. Specifically, we are extending from its expiry, which was on 31-12-2020 until 31 March 2022, the validity of the "THESIS" development programme drawn up to support the First-degree Local Government Institutions in carrying out local development investments as well as improving the quality of existing infrastructures and services with a view to harmonious, balanced sustainable development. We also streamline and reduce to the appropriate measure the sanctions and fines imposed on combinations for candidates for elections to the municipal and regional authorities for deficits relating to electoral expenditure with retroactive effect from 25-3-2019, the date of the election period of 26 May 2019 and 2 June 2019. We also give the opportunity to conclude programming contracts for OTAs, local authorities, etc., with GAIAOSE S.A., which is specifically the institutional body of the country for the management and exploitation of movable and immovable railway property and, where necessary, after the naturally co-operation of "OSE S.A.". We are exempting from specific charges for the design, construction and extension of water supply and sewerage projects of enterprises which themselves ensure their connection with the networks of a municipal water and sewerage company without the preparation of a study or extension of water and sewerage projects from the relevant JHA. It shall also specify how the collective bodies of the ATFs and the administrative boards of their supervised legal persons are convened and decided in order to facilitate their operation in the course of measures to prevent the spread of the coronary, namely by living, rotating, teleconferencing and at the same time living and teleconferencing. The choice of mode of convergence in all the above cases must ensure that all members of the collective bodies and of the administrative boards are involved respectively in accordance with the current health measures. And finally, we are reopening the relevant platform for the declaration of the so-called undeclared squares by 31/12-2021, so that the public can declare the right squares and pay in twenty-four monthly instalments the associated charges with a 20% fine on the amount resulting from the difference in square measures of this period. It is a arrangement that comes from both property owners and from self-government and at the same time rewards the consistent ones who had been able to declare and respond and had declared their squares in the first period of opening the platform as those who are now coming will pay a small 20% fine only for the period before 2020, but not 60% that would be the normal fine. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u49	The Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Have a nice day. I recommend that the Ministerial Amendment, with a general protocol number 1064 and a protocol number 109, relates mainly to issues relating to the coronary. The first and most important is the operation of a special electronic platform called EDUPASS. It is accessible through the single digital portal of public administration and aims at checking compliance with the health requirements for participation in the educational process of any level, in a natural presence in public and private educational structures. Depends on the status of the person involved, enters, so that he can enter the respective procedure. The teachers, teachers and teachers concerned may indicate on the platform the condition that they are to be able to participate in the training process, i.e. if they have a certificate of vaccination, if they have a recent hospitalisation certificate of six months, or if they have a laboratory test, and according to the current health measures on a case-by-case basis. The specific platform shall be interconnected with the National Register of Vaccinations, with the National Register of Patients and the Special Platform of the CIVID certificate 19 and shall thus check compliance with the conditions of those participating on a case-by-case basis. This information will be sent to the office of each educational structure where the persons concerned are involved in the educational process in a natural presence. Extremely important: The data shall be retained only for seven days from their registration in the educational structure box and subsequently automatically deleted, and it shall be expressly provided that the data in question do not function as a present or for any purpose other than that mentioned above. The aim, I repeat, is to ensure that those who are involved in the health education process are safe for those around them. Specifically for universities, where physical presence is not mandatory in several courses - in laboratory laboratories is - the statement of information means a manifestation of interest to be present physically in the spaces of the universities. The aim, of course, of all these things is to shield the educational process and to be safe, as far as possible, on the issue of the coronary. This concerns Articles 1 and 2. Article 3 is a tool to be offered by the Greek state to the Republican authorities. APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE AID The service contract may not exceed six months. What does that mean? It means that each university will have a number of individuals, which will be directly subject to the Rectorian authorities, and rector authorities will be able to tell them to do targeted checks for students, for workers, for teachers, if they meet the health requirements in relation to the required certificates. It's a tool we offer to the dean authorities. Besides, the objective is common, both for the Ministry of Education and for the Rector authorities, to operate the universities and not to close them again. The Board of Governors shall be responsible for the conclusion and approval of the expenditure of a public contract. We have not put the Senate in order to be a quick process, so that we can prevent 1 October, which will start the universities in the winter six months, and there is a possibility of granting an exceptional grant to each HEI to cover this expenditure. Finally, Article 4 permits the Verita International School. It is a process which, in the case of foreign schools, is always done by means of a provision of law. It will only work by following a foreign program. It has not worked in this school, it will only work if the law is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u51	Mr Petsas will be here for many hours, so for his amendment you will be present at Mr Petsa. Before Mr. Syrgyrgos, Mr. Brutsi, Mr. Ragosi, Mrs. Liikolis, Mr. Lambroulis, is gone, would you like some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u52	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u53	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u54	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, we have also heard the Minister. The Education Ministry's amendment was tabled last night late, as was the case with the Ministry of the Interior, not the first one developed by Mr Petsas, who presided over us yesterday. There's another one of the Ministry of Interior. As far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, because that was your question, first of all we heard the Minister, who summarily mentioned the articles in the amendment. But I did not have the opportunity, at least personally, to read the amendment, Mr President. The Minister well came, told us, he will leave and if we need clarification in the course of the debate, what will happen? Is he coming back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u56	All right, the Minister present will cover it from the Ministry of Interior. From Mera 25 and the Greek Solution, does anyone want clarification? Oh, no. Mr. Syragos, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u57	Yes, Mr President, I just want to mention very briefly that the information we have on the subject of student vaccination is extremely important. The average moves around 75%, is far above the level of Greek society. Some universities such as the University of Polytechnic or the University of Economics are more than 80%. It is a situation where vaccinations are constantly increasing. I think it is a political response from young people to society in relation to the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much. We are starting with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mrs Fotini Pipilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a bill of values, a bill dealing with all animals as living creatures, a big step, a huge drachma, which covers a gap. We are legislating for the well-being of any living organism that feels and moves on land, air and sea, giving them rights and freedoms, good physical condition of the animal, which does not suffer from pain, fear, anxiety, weather, where freedoms are guaranteed from hunger and thirst, from pain, injury and disease. In short, he ensures freedom of expression of normal behaviour, where our animals will learn and live under the proper conditions of living and socialization. These values, which are now becoming law, were adopted by the then President of the New Democracy and now Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who had as first political leader in our country the initiative since 21 November 2018 to convene the country's largest pro-zootic organisations at his offices in Piraeus. From that day on, he said that, in his own perception, the Ministry of Rural Development should deal with productive animals and not with pet animals and that it is the Ministry of Interior that has supervision of local government, which should also have central responsibility. It is precisely what I mentioned in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Pipilis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The opposition parties are collecting the bill today. It's one of their choices. In fact, with their universal denial, they indirectly admit that they cannot withstand weaning by certain synagogues and interests, that they cannot withstand the choice through solid stones. I will be presenting myself again, as I did yesterday in committee, not because I am contemplating myself, but because I have to show how deeply I have been aware here and, at least, thirty-five years of all the issues relating to philanthropy. I know the space very well, which is why I am very strict, precisely because I know. I have been the first journalist in Greece, who since the 1980s, the very difficult, the very backward, I have had a thought in response and created a woman magazine "Pantheon", a column called "Only for friendly people". It was a time when there was an outcry from a large part of the conservative society against us with characterizations of illusions such as "growths", "insurmountables", "graphics" etc. So I know very well when I say that this bill is a very tough bill, and I congratulate Thodoris Livanos, who first worked on it, but also Stelios Pecha, who, on the mandate of the Prime Minister and political responsibility, goes against trade unions - I repeat - because it is a difficult bill involving opposing bodies, many institutions, many times against each other, and that has to do, whether with trade unionists or with ideologies or with philosophical organisations that also have different views and often have conflicts. We are going to the issue of registries that are very useful. It is true that the hearing of digital governance creates a record of all pet animals, which includes many sub-registers. So it has been heard - and to a certain extent it has been justified - that this creates huge bureaucracy and difficulty and that I have clarified why the many people cannot realise that what the sub-registers have, for example, the TAXIS NET, which we all enter and we press on with a simple click and we make this choice, the same will apply to the sub-registers where, for example, everyone can press the person responsible to see the state of health of their dog or if they are marked in the register, etc. For how determined the government is, not only by registration within the bill of the municipality's obligations but also by citizens, because the saying of the Prime Minister "no stray, no abused animal" is necessary at the same time and administrative and criminal sanctions are needed for all offenders, whether they are municipal councils or mayors or simply citizens. The transcendent to the Greek culture, the expression in the form of a law of values that marks every responsible democratic European citizen, since they are also recognised in animals, i.e. any living organization that feels values, where I must stress that the ones that were included in the bill are a symptom from the viewpoint of the philosophical organisations that took part in their speeches at that first meeting of Mr.Mitsotakis at the offices of Piraeus Street since November 2018. The main objective of the bill for not forgetting ourselves is the drastic reduction in the unacceptable and insulting dignity of Greece by the millions of strayers. No one can object to this, vote or vote. Initially, there was the one-way pathway of mandatory sterilisation in all pet animals. Mandatory sterilisation was heard as a tough measure, a significant rise was made, i.e. there were reactions and finally the rationale of the alternative solution for those who do not want to sterilise their animals and must now, after having proceeded with the mandatory labelling of the animal, send a sample of genetic material to the pet guarding and DNA analysis laboratory, which will be kept at the Athens Academy's Medical Research Foundation. The science of the Athens Academy lab is questioned by some. You're going to drive us some crazy! For those who haven't figured out what the mandatory marking and DNA transmission means, let's say it again. The strays aren't a genius. The strays were created and created by dog dome and pedigree. When this irresponsibility prevails, particularly by letting males free evenings to be extinguished, it is natural that we then collect this irresponsibility as a society, seeing unsatisfactory skeletons roaming around or crushed by the tires of our cars. So now those who let their arsenic get rid of them must know, or when they throw away puppies or newborn kittens in trash cans or rivers, that at the very beginning, this unconscious man dominion of animals will be able to be found and punished. The problem of strayers is a wider social problem, not only that we have allowed for all these years impoverishment, but also because, on many occasions, it has led them to unpleasant events and I note here that it has also created a negative climate of respect for us as a society for unfortunate animals. In other words, it gave a grip on lofty cries that, unfortunately, were embraced and some local players, mayor - for example - or anti-democratic or anti-socially dangerous citizens, resulting in their violent and appalling deaths, particularly by flaming. The strays were therefore circulated impoverished and hungry, and now it is perfectly logical that the "ARGOS" programme should be assigned to the good neighbour of all of us, even if we have not voted for it, which is, of course, every local authority. As much as those who react, the world understands that touring strays in a square, in a neighborhood, on a road, in the Dumotich or in Kyparissia, bad lies, the local municipality knows only and not the geotechnical excellent scientists of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. I would like to make it clear that the Ministry is responsible for the welfare of the producing animals, for the protection that it has often achieved for infectious animal diseases or other diseases, and the Ministry of Interior - through the mayors, the co-archists, the municipal councils of the local people - is henceforth exclusively responsible for responsibilities, as I have said, and for sanctions to limit this problem of strayers. The ARGOS programme requires the creation - and it is very essential - of refugee animals by municipalities, legal persons of associations of municipalities, inter-democratic co-operations and, finally, the long-term demand for philosophical societies not only to have an opinion but also to be decisive and co-operation with the ARGOS programme at last being implemented. Pet shelters can accommodate dogs, cats, but also all pets with similar characteristics, namely that they are pets and not producing animals. We are now entering a chapter that is of great concern to the world. After all - underwriting, the wars between our own policies or among those involved are something that does not concern them, but concern them that the Pecha bill solves over time problems of everyday life. For example, access to beaches, which is a major issue with terrible fighting. So the bill minimizes the no honourable practice of the fights I mentioned before for the protection of a dog in the natural environment that is also for him, because it is not just for man. Dogs are therefore allowed access to non-organised beaches, as well as into the sea and off-sea. The movement of pet animals by means of public transport and passenger ships, the movement and transport of pet animals until this bill was almost impossible and very often again we had complaints or fights from philosophical unions, because there was a huge difficulty in non-commercial movement and other pet animals. The way to move is clear and the problems of the past are resolved. Help dogs and treatment animals: an article that may not immediately reflect with its strength to many but reflects on the European person in our country. It is the article that liberates our fellow humans blind and other peculiarities, which, in order to live in normality, need daily, beside them their faithful "cohabitant", help dogs and the treatment animals, which have been placed for good in hard everyday life. These animals - "co-humans" can henceforth enter with the people accompanying the Petsa bill. With Article 21, we will also have moving times in Greece like abroad, because it allows the use of dogs for help and treatment animals in hospitals, rehab centres, hospitals and nursing homes to support therapeutic purposes. We are going to go on another topic which will be very moved by civilised citizens: the ban on the participation of animals in all kinds of spectacular and related activities. In Greece of 2021, there would normally be no law, but the common sense for the definitive ban on the participation of animals in all kinds of spectacles and horrific activities in other betting activities, such as courgettes and dogfighting. It was unprecedented for a European country, for example, that the protection of both the Ministers for Rural Development and Food should be allowed to go into swimming pools of wild animals such as dolphins only to make the ticket more high at the entrance of the children's audience. Of course, draws, lotteries and competitions with pets and even production animals are now prohibited, because in our time, unfortunately, some local customs that give the winner a prize ewe and no more laughter do not cause the winner. Cereals and animal incinerators are being created and also the very touching electronic register of voluntary pet blood donation, where our animals will come to give blood to those other people who are facing a serious health problem, but also to a pan-Hellenic adoption, which will now solve many problems, because it becomes a single pan-Hellenic electronic platform. Let me stress - to uncover certain aspects of reaction - that no bill is perfect, but this one has Heralds to support it, has the training of the police through the bill - the main one - and it has the Greek justice that in recent years has shown how respectful and how cruel penalties it imposes on the malpractices of various ways on animals. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I will say once again congratulations to our Government because the Minister of Government Mitsotakis, Makis Voridis, has brought the law by which the felony of life-threatening or abuse is committed to ten years. No imprisonment, no imprisonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u60	Mrs Pulou, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Legislation of the Ministry of the Interior on pet animals in Parliament is taking place at a difficult time in which it finds society faced with heavy and urgent problems, which the New Democracy Government did not want to prevent in time with adequate measures that citizens were demanding for education, health and the economy, and now, of course, it cannot deal with because they have been gigantic and have escaped from its control. We are already in September, and the schools opened exactly as they closed up, as if nothing has been taught by the government since these two years of pandemic and problematic tele­vision. Schools are still unarmed in front of the fourth pandemic wave, while Mrs. Keramos insists on her global originality increasing instead of reducing the number of students in the halls. About one million children are stacked in classes of eighteen and thirty students, and the government does not apply the recommendation of the Committee of Experts, cleaners with two-hour and three-hour work contracts which cannot cover health protocols, but which, of course, actually bear the budgets of the municipalities. So Mrs Kerameou and the government continue to devaluate public education by merging and abolishing schools, by abolishing few sections, but also by not recruiting teachers for the reception classes. The educational and apprenticeship community is revolutionary and already in various regions of Greece, as in Boeotia, there are already mobilisations and occupations of pupils with a central demand to support their schools. On the forefront of the pandemic, the government's failed vaccination campaign is demonstrated by the establishment of the vaccination rate in 55% of the population. Greece is in the last positions in Europe and this is one of the most unforgivable failures of the Mitsotakis Government. Furthermore, the wave of revelations on the cases of counterfeit certificates and public interventions shows that even this electronic system for registration of vaccinations is completely perforated, that is, the so-called model and innovation for which the child was grasping - a miracle of the government, Mr Pierracakis and for which he was supposed to have been awarded. But also on the front of the economy, the government is trying to curb with false benefits restraining households, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises that foresee and prepare for difficult days, who see their income evaporate from unstoppable increases in electricity, fuel, bread and many other kinds of first need. The Prime Minister himself did not hesitate to deceive again the middle class, promising new support measures of EUR 3.4 billion, measures which, however, were specialised by her own financial staff to around EUR 400 million, since the measures already in force are EUR 2.6 billion, while the extensions of other existing measures accounted for around EUR 460 million. The deception of the middle class continues. However, do not forget, gentlemen of the government, that lying and virtual reality reveals life itself. The propaganda cursor of your Government is causing me to comment on the Prime Minister's comedian communal hail in Damasi, Texas, where in the context of a roughly directed Bucolic sketch - inspired by a foreign well-paid communist - Mr. Mitsotakis encounters at random in front of the cameras a Thessalo cowboy, Dalton, a cowboy who declares a timeless friend of the Mitsotakis family and is enthusiastic about the ego of the aristocrats. I must say, in fact, that I was sympathetic to the Prime Minister when, on the basis of the script or improvisation, he had to ask himself about gender, but also about the kind of animal involved in the sketch. But we've had enough fun. Let us land in the difficult reality, a reality which requires us not to forget that this gray and kite performance has been in the earthquake of Damasi, whose inhabitants have been in a container for seven months, that is, the earthquakes that have received only the original aid of 600 euros, while the money for the damaged device has just begun to be paid a month ago. It appears that the more the deadlock is deepened for the government, the more powerless it is to face the burning problems of society, the more it will turn into a desperate communication management. In closing the greedy parentheses of the government's communications tricks that are getting cheaper and more fatter, let us now move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill. Our first comment concerns the completely wrong philosophy that governs it. We all know that at the heart of the problem of stray animals in our country there is an important lack of education, an inadequate and atrocious philosophical culture. So, what are you doing to strengthen it, Minister? Are you working on a bill reflecting a long-term and holistic approach to the problem, an approach that gives a solution to the issue of animal welfare by combining the strengthening of public education and public health? Of course not. All you are seeking is a sloppy, short and ultimately controversial management of the problem that is once again only communication targeting. At the hearing of the bodies, it proved beyond doubt that the local government and the vast majority of scientists and geotechnics, prozootic unions and organisations are against the bill and in favour of its withdrawal. We're wondering, why are you insisting on his testimony? But you took us out of the trouble of looking for the answer, after you yourself, Minister, at yesterday's committee meeting. You told us, in other words, that this bill reflects the basic guidelines for the management of pet animals that the Prime Minister personally wanted from the election season. Therefore, you have acted as his incomprehensible trustees responsible for the task of carrying out his incorporation staff. But the Prime Minister in 2018 what did he say? I will read you an excerpt from his statements at the "PROFITION" in 2018. I shall table it in the Minutes: 'I shall first record as my top priority the need for a substantial modernisation of the legal framework governing the animal protection framework in our country. The speakers have mentioned the tragic failure of the current government - SYRIZA - to introduce a new legislative framework which, at the expense of a large public reaction, was very soon forced to take it back. He did this because while discussing it with the competent, municipalities, central union, pro-zootic organisations, veterinary surgeons, it seems that he has not taken into account the comments made in the context of the dialogue at all. As a New Democracy, we have no intention of repeating the same mistake. It is my commitment - the Prime Minister said then - within the first six months of the new government, if we are trusted by the Greeks, to govern and change this legal framework." That's what he said then. Now what are you doing? Take into account neither the views of the actors and people of the field nor the objective conditions that make it inapplicable, without scientific documentation, without the support of the self-government, the scientific community, civil society and all parties of anti-population. So, what is it that seeks and who is served by your legislation that finds them all opposing? To satisfy the election record of Mr.Mitsotakis and the New Democracy "No animal stray, no animal malicious", but also the interests of your few privileged interlocutors who obviously shaped the bill behind closed doors, you are establishing a framework that ignores the objective potential of the municipalities and does not ensure effective supervision and control of animal welfare. And while you knew, Minister, that the interventions in the public consultation that, in fact, mobilised unions, clubs, experts and individual citizens more than nine thousand, you concealed that 80% of them were rejected against your bill and were enthusiastic about your success with statements in the pro-government media on the list that now bears your name. You hid it and, of course, no journalists were found to ask you. Another communal distortion of reality. Furthermore, you have reached the point of attacking and deceiving the bodies, service actors, the scientific community, the friendly people by implying that they serve syndicated interests, while individual owners with their individual experiences also know. That is, you're splitting up society again. At the same time, however, you replicate individualistic, neoliberal ideologies that do not actually exist in society and the collectives but only individual ones. And you ask us wickedly whether we are ultimately interested in dealing with the problem of stray animals and in general the well-being of pet animals or simply covering supposedly syndicate requests and suspending administrative changes. So we can answer you clearly: we are only interested in dealing with the problem, but together with your bodies we are explaining that this is not going to be done with this bill, and we have once again highlighted the main problems, but I shall briefly mention them. First of all, the distorting and graying without control and the rules governing the institution of the contractor are effectively undoing the regulations and guarantees of animal welfare. Subsequently, it is dangerous to transfer the relative competence for animals from the Ministry of Rural Development to the interior that breaks down services, runs counter to international standards and undermines public supervision and control capabilities. You even told us yesterday that transferring responsibility to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was a consistent request from the institutions. How does that work? Nowhere has it emerged so far, unless you consider that the Prime Minister's personal view is equivalent to an institution's position. In addition, important problems arise in the new context of sterilisation and reproduction, which does not really contribute to reducing the number of strays and burdening their guardians with the incomprehensible cost of EUR 150 and that is because it seems that you are anticipating the alternative of a control mechanism for the population by depositing the identification of genetic material, namely DNA, in practice this mechanism is not applicable, as it does not determine who will carry out so many controls throughout Greece. But it is also scientifically controversial, since the sample can only lead to indication and not to proof of the animal's identity, as the experts assure us. In fact, the breeding and rearing framework imported is incomplete and perforated, since it does not include any provision for specific cases. For example, there is no provision for the protection of indigenous Greek sexes, long-time working dogs, such as the alopecia, the Greek Shepherd, the Skyros cord and others from a list of twenty-eight indigenous tribes. Minister, in the context of the preliminary consultation with the institutions you have completely forgotten about university and research institutions. Proof is that the relevant Memorandum of the Pasteur Institute and the other eight research bodies provide for an exemption from the breeding ban for research and pharmaceutical purposes of rodents and weasels. We think you should include it in the legislative improvements. Another structural problem of the bill concerns the composition of the monitoring committee, which will have general supervision and control of the new framework. We find a strange and obvious photographic provision for the President, since no scientific qualifications or institutional status is laid down for him, apart from being a person of unknown authority. At the same time, the composition of the Committee does not provide for the participation of representatives of important bodies such as the Directorate-General for Veterinary, the Hellenic Veterinary Company, Panhellenic Association of Veterinary Officers, or even veterinary university schools, that is to say, you are exempting them from the most special scientists. Their absence in our view significantly weakens the supervisory and audit function of the committee and this has been pointed out to you by almost all the stakeholders. Finally, the main weakness is the tsunami of the new responsibilities for stray animals that you are launching in the municipalities. You're trying. In other words, apply this whole new framework through local government, but without substantially strengthening it. On the contrary, you are once again presenting it, throwing it away the ball of responsibility and calling on it to prove that it can, as the majority rapporteur said at the first meeting of the committee, also demonstrate. You know, Minister, the last thing you can blame the representatives of government for is for disciplinary action and abstraction, that is, those who are accountable to the citizens every day for all their actions and omissions. But we wonder how he can prove this when he sees that he cannot cope with this new responsibilities without financial resources and personnel? The funding you promise of infrastructure and operational expenditure is not guaranteed through your bill and prevents self-government from taking moral responsibility. At the same time, you are entangled in suffocating deadlines for the implementation of the operational planning and also threatening it with anti-constitutional sanctions through cutting off the CFPs that affect its own self-sufficiency if it does not have time to meet the requirements. All this has been pointed out by the CEDEFOP since May by calling for a withdrawal of the bill and for a return to the dialogue table to find a solution that is effective, effective and mutually acceptable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm gonna need two minutes. This is what the CEDEFOP is doing, which, in its present composition, is politically up to your party. It seems, however, that when it does not go with your waters and does not match your positions, you do not hesitate to deceive it in an insulting and vulgar way. Why can I not point out that yesterday in the criticism we made in Article 49 about the transfer of critical responsibilities from the City Council to the Economic Commission on Ottawa Development Loans, you have just justified the fact that you propose the relevant article because municipal groups may vote against beneficial development projects only to opposition to the mayors. In other words, you blamed the fact that they put their micro-political interests above the interests of the co-presidents and their place. Our experience of self-government, however, is that the vast majority of self-government politicians are consistently, responsibly and daily accountability. But you are probably judged on your own initiative, Minister, since you are governed by legislative acts and restrictions on the democratic functioning of the House, taking advantage of your health and parliamentary self-reliance on a case-by-case basis. However, in the very few cases where your parliamentary majority is not enough for the purposes of legislating, you only fold and remember the value of dialogue and convergence. Ladies and gentlemen, the government had a unique opportunity to make use of the messages it received through consultation in May and to demonstrate that it legislates for many. In this context he could temporarily withdraw or freeze this bill and exhaust any margin of dialogue to improve it. On the contrary, however, it insists on a draft legislation which leads it to parliamentary isolation once again, and unfortunately, the protection and promotion of animal welfare are not achieved. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u62	I will now give the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Petsa, the floor for his legal intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u63	I do not want the floor for the legislative, Madam President, because I have not taken the final list from the General Secretariat of the Government. I hope I have it in a little while. But I wanted to say a few words about what Mrs Pulou said. In the first five minutes he said two things about which, because I am present, I would not like there to be any impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u64	What's he doing? To speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u65	The main issue, Mrs Pulou, is that it disturbs you the fact that the Prime Minister had a positive welcome to both Damasi and Farsala. But I can tell you, as far as compensation is concerned, that this was not the case in the past. We have applied the common ministerial decision and the framework that has applied over your days to social protection. You referred to construction issues. I also had the opportunity to answer a timely question from the Member, Mr Lambroulis. We paid EUR 1.2 million to the Municipality of Tirnavos for social protection. The mayor himself said on Monday that he's already paid 1.150,000. So I don't understand the issue of delays. Secondly, as regards the settlement for the containers, there was indeed a canteen settlement where tents would exist. It became a record time and was transferred and caravans to cover people in settlements with electricity, water, sewers. Not in the mud. Also, for the first time the Greek State has assumed responsibility for moving forward at its own expense to demolition. We have already given 408,000 only of the Ministry of Interior in order to make housing reconstructions, which you always know take a little longer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. I have to tell the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of a criminal prosecution warrant against a Member. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u67	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when on 19 October 1979 Odysseus Elytes was announced his award with Nobel literature, he said: 'I have already told you. It's barbaricity. I see her in disguised under unfair alliances and pre-agreed entrenched enslavements. So one wonders: why are we fighting night in our labs? Is it the imaginary? Is it the dark? They see nothing. But we always do. Where is the truth? It'll show one day when we're not here anymore. It will, however, be the work of one of us all, and that will save the honor of all of us and of our time. They are the democratic institutions that all show that they will not last long." This was the first statement Elytis made in 1979, when they announced that he had been selected for the Nobel of Literature. International Day of Democracy today, Minister, in that country that was born together in the sense of the right to freedom of thought, freedom of expression. The democratic institutions and functioning, an endless debate on the democratic deficit for the guarantees of democracy, the debt of democracy. The democracy that always deepens but always seeks, which is ultimately interpreted, which is clearly limited, which is ultimately being tested seriously in the difficult conditions of our times. Finally, we all, ladies and gentlemen, strongly agree that it is not just a civilization, but it is a way of thinking and thinking. And remind me of Andreas Papandreou's historic phrase "The struggle for democracy is never a gift but is obtained from a permanent and lasting struggle". Today's reason for democracy and for the co-legislative democracy. We have now accepted not only the theorists, but also in practice parliamentarians, that it is top and best in public policies to integrate opinions, institutions and policies. Now, how did you get that, Minister, your long-lived animal-management bill - euphoria, did you say so - was found to be discussed on such a day? It is discussed on a symbolic day in which the universe denounces you, the whole of society, the citizens, the institutions, the parties that you have heard no one, that you have gone on your own, that you have undecided to the bodies you have not even accepted to speak to you, even to listen to them, or to their opinions, as if you had drawn up your course, as if you had decided in your offices before that even entered into the public debate. Unfortunately, everything shows that this is how your government has gone. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You do not take advice from experts. You're not accepting anything at all. You knew everything. You've known them since then. You knew them all along. Mr. Voridis is missing from the draft bill. Politically it is not in our opinion. You are here as Deputy Minister and we honor you for your presence. We're not saying that Mr. Vorides is something else, but it means politically that Mr. Vorides is not suggesting this bill. But it is obvious that your Government is thus aware of democracy and parliamentaryism. It's a major political issue to have a whole society against you. With society you said no. With some you chose to confide. With the good philosophers. We have two counts. We have the bad philosophers and the good philosophers. I didn't know that until you and your rapporteur came to the committee responsible to tell us. It was the first time in time that the bodies were listening to us as a shocking experience, ladies and gentlemen, those who were not there. Entities who spoke of institutional inappropriateness, who closed the door to their faces, who questioned science. And you even reached the point - it is written in the Minutes - to speak of trade union pursuits and personal competitions. It's not enough that you've got your nest so dirty that even your hooligans are denouncing you, throwing the mud into the fan. You also say to them "artistic" and "personal pursuits" without explaining what you mean. I don't understand what you mean, who promotes the guild against the public interest? Who brings about institutional anomaly with personal pursuits? Who serves interests as a paradox from the public interest? Shouldn't you tell us? Just, Minister, does the government have five wolves and a sheep decide what to eat for dinner? Is that what this is about? The bodies do not, however, decide that you are simply dealing with some of the people you chose - and you did well, and you chose them, your own people, 'logue' and so forth - the bodies say something else, they say that you are trading and that is very serious and that is what you need to answer. And I explain: What they charge to your government is that after you closed the doors to everyone, you chose to speak and agree with those who do. And instead of improving the inspiring Scandalidis law of 2012 with all those responsible for an issue that concerns society as a whole, you brought a law that refers to dark paths, blurred landscape, without willing social partners supporting him. Entities and organisations declare voices in writing with your choices. In the Minutes, why did you ask me to speak yesterday, you said to me 'Where does he write this?' For trafficking they speak. I would ask very much that all the operators' memos be incorporated in my speech, in order to refer to them in a word, Minister. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Evangelia Liakoulis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Speaking, then, they said about your choices, talking about strengthening animal trafficking, traficking, about supposedly amateur breeders who are actually professionals but who hide it and that all of this is getting easier with your bill. We have called on you to respond to all of this in public and clear terms, as the political leadership must do. What did you say? Nothing! Five are the big issues of the bill, five are the answers that the Change Movement asked you to give, but we never heard of them. Firstly, why break the responsibilities and get from the Ministry of Rural Development and take the animal health issue to the Ministry of the Interior, without any scientific documentation, removing responsibilities from the natural area, against the view of veterinarians? We call it animal and welfare, and we disconnect it from the veterinarians, one. What's your point? Secondly, why do you transfer powers to the municipalities without introducing specific resources into the bill? Responsibilities without resources, that's not possible. We've proved you're doing a hole in the water.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u68	We're setting up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u69	So don't insist, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, while I'm speaking. I'll answer you from here. A hole in the water! We have mentioned the provisions and I will come to them in detail. Thirdly, who will execute the most famous business plan for strays in the municipalities? Come and answer that, as I see you, Mr. Brutsi, laudable, say! When you arrived at the pandemic to get the CIVID officials to clean up, now are you telling us that you have structures and departments and organisations and staff that will serve this whole situation? Or will the infamous business plan of the municipalities be covered by some companies or by some NGOs that have been set up for this very reason, which are of doubtful purpose and of doubtful feasibility or even dubious recommendation? Well, let's see. Fourth, where did you rely on what scientific, true, study of horizontal sterilisation? Let's get them one by one. You brought horizontal sterilization into your bill. We have asked you three times to bring us the study on which you support this terrible horizontal sterilisation measure in all dogs, because you say that this is because we have strays which we cannot control. Where's the investigation? Aren't you going to testify a scientific study on a highly medical issue? You interfere with the animals like this because - who? - Did the good philosophers tell you and the bad philosophers react? You say alternatively, after the chaos has happened, as your rapporteur has said, you alternatively bring the genetic material to a laboratory that you will keep and that is paid - well paid - and the other paid. And sterilisation, therefore, by the private, the owner of the animal and the genetic material by the owner, too, of the animal. And the veterinary community says: "What are you doing? There's no such thing you're going to make. You mixed up the DNA of the people with the DNA of the animals, because the DNA of the animals cannot last for the years it lasts and prove what the DNA of the people proves, that is, you are actually doing something that medically, veterinaryly, is not based on science." They tell you that and you don't hear it. You don't even hear about sterilisation, you don't even hear about your alternative view of things. And fifthly, how is it possible to introduce new institutions, such as the contractor, to introduce a new loose regime for shelters - relaxer than ever - to choose pro-zootic companies as key issues for strays without public control? You are actually taking responsibility from the institution, which should be the municipality and should be in the control of a public veterinarian, and you are taking it, you throw it in the cradle. So they tell you that you are not simply interacting with each other, but you are mostly traded. So all this, Minister, your government is doing it on its own. Great political issue to whom you rely. Veterinarians across, pro-zonals across, to the majority of volunteers across, municipalities across, universities across, parties across, hunters across and across society! Do you really think that the lack of staff, the declining service structure, the zero know-how of the Ministry of the Interior, the willingness of your few and chosen interlocutors can fill up this huge gap that today appears on the subject? The question of funding the Ottawas, I told you before. In the bill you say 'any other resources' and you do not regulate it. We invite you, you have talked to us about 15 million euros that you will be giving every year. Write it down, bring me a piece of legislation now and write it in the bill! What do you say that? You're the good guys, will you finance, I'm sure, but tomorrow, but tomorrow, if the turkeys come to the government? Say, we say that turkeys come and are bad, Mr. Pecha, and they don't give the 15 million, then what happens? How will your notorious business plan be implemented? So what's the point of trust? This is how the institutions are respected and that is how public policies are conducted? I don't think so. For the first time in everyone's time, even those who had no objection but one, it is to withdraw this bill. I told you yesterday that, in my view, it is wonderfully exaggerated, it is politically true, it is socially sensitive and institutionally excellent to make this move, now that the bill has spread, it has been discussed, it has entered the legal process. You have the ability to do the political transcendance and call on all these people who talk to you about inappropriate, your people, the president of GEOTE said so, did not say so by a opposition to your Government and others, the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Papastergiou, homage people, your people, in the same political family you are. So you don't listen to them? You are alone in a heavy social bill with great social resonance and social participation. And you know, Minister, what don't you have? You don't have the social agreement. You do not have the social agreement and you have the whole world of the social partners, unless you tell me, 'What do we want the social partners when we have the companies?' Well, it's a visual too, but it's not our viewpoint. This can only be your perspective. I also said to the committees, and now I repeat that in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the parties themselves went beyond them, the parties went beyond them. We had fewer things to say than the agencies had to say. And we did well, and we had less to say, because we were non-experts. The experts were those, they were the organisations, they were the veterinarians, they were the municipalities, they were the groups dealing with this whole matter for decades. And what did they tell you? In the memos, Minister, what are they telling you? They speak of things and miracles, reveal circuits, how illegally there can be something, get out of the country and where it can go. I was reading these memos, and I was really shocked, because I thought that I had approached it by what. Eventually, we did not know one millimeter of the reality in our country. And we shouldn't really take that into account? Shouldn't we be leaning on them? Should we not see who's telling the truth and lying and what interest is being concealed behind your viewpoints? You put the mud on the fan and you say syndicate interests and personal rivalries and you have a public speech, Minister, and you do not have the political responsibility to climb the Stepma? I invite you today, directly politically I challenge you to come to Stepma and to say who promotes his interests collectively and who has personal quarrel. If you don't name that, it'll be, as I said, mud in the fan. In major contradictions, your government has fallen. You told us that you were breaking down the responsibilities for our own good - we know, all for our own good - for the good of animals, without explaining what the good of animals is, you are also decentralising the responsibilities of the municipalities - to say that, by the way, you are putting them in management. The municipalities will raise their hands up. I see the play. I was twenty-five years in local government, and I know how it works. They'll call for help, they'll emits SOS. Because you will put the legislation in the ETUC and will have to carry out it with the operation. And what will they do? Will they not be forced to request assistance from companies and specialists and NGOs abroad, please? Because if you open up the animal management websites, only that's what you'll be smacking, you'll really see who the three big colossians are. But these aren't secret. You don't only know them in your office, we know them, and the experts know them, and the vet knows them, they know the illegal circuits, they know everything and they'll reveal them. Do you think that, Minister, will you pay tribute to your government, since you have not heard of any of them? And I confirm, of course, that the Prime Minister's view in 2018 at a conference on animals was exactly that, that the previous government failed because he did not listen to the institutions, and he promised that this would never happen again. I've submitted to the Minutes and this statement. Is that what you're doing, or exactly the opposite? Close your eyes, close your ears, have a specific plan, have you drawn it up in your offices, and execute it? Promote, say the bodies, the facilitation of mass trade in stray animals and kept animals through so-called pro-zootic unions based in countries of the European Union. You must answer that, Minister. You can't leave this Chamber today. You have not responded to the committees. But today you have to answer it. Make it easier, they tell you, uncontrolled breeding and rearing of pet animals by supposedly amateurs. They mention as an example the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, where there is a professional rearing and all amateurs say. What do you have to answer that? It inhibits veterinary checks and other controls your bill. What do you answer that? More complexity and ambiguity about the responsibilities of local government. How about this? A donor without a specific status of each citizen with a contract of assumption from the municipality, is paid by the municipality, while at the same time a intensity of the concentration of stray animals in uncontrolled areas. We also have a leading political contradiction here. Let's see this contradiction, too, how you answer it to us. You give a contractor - and this is a new institution without specializing in it, and I have no time to talk about it, but we have told the committees - and, at the same time, you say that the municipalities will create a whole situation, a new structure. Why? After having a good 'parking' of animals, the municipalities are fine. Why would they develop this? This is a political contradiction. Your arrest cannot be followed by a modern mind for public policies. The Change Movement was clearly requested by the relevant municipality and under no circumstances by any pro-life association, association, etc., the competence of the contractor, who would be selected as a contractor, and we also asked for stricter legislation to be met in order to be designated as a contractor and to provide penalties for those who do not fulfil the conditions. For pet shelters you have heard too much. And we said, of course, that if they end up like animals' immunisation areas we will all have failed as a system, as a society, as a culture we will all have failed. And, of course, when you make such conditions, my Minister, it is only natural that it will end up as quiet as ever. Did you compare European legislation? Did you compare Union legislation? And as you talk about Europe - and I conclude - you know, you will soon be dealing with a very serious issue that I was discussing yesterday with my legal colleagues, who are, indeed, specialised in such matters. The European legislation you know requires only one central competent veterinary authority representing the country in the institutions and bodies of the European Union. Which authority will represent the country on the issues of animal protection that are uniform in European legislation and are not divided into pets and productive animals? You should answer that not to us. You will have to answer that in Europe. You'll give us an answer. You'll say something. Your advisor will say it's not like that, but it's different from what you usually say. But here it is on the type of suns. You'll be forced to send paper. The scarf has to be written. What will your paper be written? What service will you write inside, Minister? And what I mean to say is that you have had a discrimination against hunters who are obliged to issue passports for animals, regardless of whether they are moved or not. You did not have protection for the special dogs that they asked you to do, at least to check their request, as well as for the indigenous Greek tribes that asked for a great category - they have given the record to you, I believe, of the people who deal with it, twenty - twenty - twenty-five organisations around - that they must be excluded from horizontal sterilisation and that there must be special scientific attention in order not to eliminate these species. We haven't seen anything yet. To conclude, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance, I say only this: Minister, when the adoption of a joint decision of Ministers for the Interior, the Environment and Energy with which special conditions and conditions are regulated, you must speak to this House about this. You can't leave here with a majority mandate at all, because they're voting against all parties from what I've seen. You cannot leave without having the political commitment of what this will include for a crucial and essential, not to say the main issue, of animal shelters. What, in other words, will include, which terms and conditions, but you will only have this comfort with your Minister, the other Minister of your Government, to choose on your own. With these, and with these thoughts, I will fill in as much time as I have left in my second language of amendments, which are not amendments, again drafts, are mini-legislative bills that you have brought in and, indeed, with the cancellation of electoral expenditure debts. I say this only as a title to preside over my next position, Minister. Not to mention the bills concerning the Ministries of Health, Education, and all the others that come to us. And, of course, you don't call that a good legacy, gonatogram you say it. As far as the animal bill is concerned, because this is a sensitive issue with huge social importance and with enormous social infiltration, take note, Mr Minister, because with this bill you have written the title that Greece is the country of parallel monologues. Unfortunately, in this place, we are all tragicly self-taught. Some wise men have said so and reiterated them in your political practice. But you're not going anywhere like this, and you're not saving yourself. Unfortunately, I don't know Christmas or Easter, but you know it's a short festival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, my colleague. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me make two references. The first has to do with the new school year that can be started, but the agony and insecurity keep well in place for students, teachers and parents, since there are virtually no health measures, only health protocols for coronary overtransmission. We have students and teachers in hundreds of containers in preschool education, thousands of school vacancies in schools, stacking pupils in twenty-sevens, inappropriate areas, while the government takes no action to vacate pupils. Similarly, we have closures and subsidence of schools in villages in towns or the non-approval of hundreds of few sections in PPAL and GEL, while at the same time we continue the long-term building problems and cage halls. And in the face of this situation is the one-way struggle, the battle of the people's family, teachers, to create a better tomorrow for her children. Because at the same time the Prime Minister's announcements in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition are nothing but assurances that the government will continue to do everything in its power to ensure the profitability of business groups with new privileges, facilities, various packages and above all new bars of anti-French and anti-Slavish measures, which are also included in the Rehabilitation Fund roadmap for green and digital bishops. The government is trying to deceive the people, workers by presenting that the capitalist development that presupposes the smashing of labour rights is a one-way path to the supposedly satisfying the needs of the workers, by pouring some crumbs that are evaporated by the explosion of great accuracy, the change in labour relations, the overthrowing of rights and decades of conquest. "To burn you, Yannis, to lure you oil." In fact, the challenge is taking off with reference to youth and the claim that it is a priority for the Government itself, when the New Democracy Government, by taking over the baton from the previous governments, has ensured in the new generation a ten-hour job, twelve-hour unpaid work, wages of EUR 200 and 300, pay for insurance contributions for guaranteed hunger pensions, inexorably class barriers to education by sending thousands of even six-year-old children directly to the nails of co-operation. But the dreams of the new generation do not fit in tips, pay offs and gigabites, which aim to hide the attack on the rights and life of young people. Swallow winds and you will reap storms. And be sure that the response of the workers, youth will be the mass, dynamic struggles and the struggle to overthrow the anti-government policies of the government and capital. As far as the draft law, as we have put it in committee, is concerned, in principle, that we opposed it, and indeed we asked the Minister for the withdrawal of the bill, together with the majority of the bodies who have expressed serious reservations, in his view, of course, as everyone has said. We believe that the bill does not serve these objectives, it does not even promote a rational management of the problem. On the other hand, it continues the same policy on the basis of reduced funding to satisfy a social need and by extension of social needs, when you give land and water to capital. And our opposition to the bill is based on the following axes. On the first axis, which is the core - if you like - of the bill, by entrusting the municipalities or the possibility of entrusting non-governmental organisations, individuals, the issues of competitivity, incarceration in children's homes. What's she predicting? The municipalities will still have one responsibility, which is described with specific obligations for collection, veterinary care, stray sterilisation, and others, without adequate infrastructure, conditions, staff, resources and so forth, but also in particular with insufficient funding. In fact, the only mockery is the 40 million, of course, that the Minister told us in committee that 15 million will be given and the 15 million that will be given each year respectively. They are crumbs, since they do not account for even 50,000 per municipality. Thus, with mathematical accuracy, municipalities will be encouraged to award these services to third parties - non-profit organisations, private veterinarians, other individuals and others - which otherwise is provided for in the bill. That leaves the field open to business activities around strays and at the same time moves these costs into the pockets of the people's blocks, with the well-known logic of the reciprocity of municipal fees for services that should be free. At the same time, we would say that this is precisely the direction that will be undermining the efforts already made by several municipalities in this area. So we repeat - and in committee too - that the Communist Party of Greece considers that the basis for managing the problem of stray animals should be the state, municipal vets with clinical infrastructure for strays, with examination, surgery, nursing, microbiological laboratory, with permanent shifters, with permanent nurses, with zoonicians trained, with trainers, with car collection and others at municipal level or groups of neighbouring municipalities. Ensure through these infrastructure that procedures for recovery, medical control and care, sterilisation, recording, marking and as soon as these procedures are completed, are carried out exclusively in their environment if they have been checked for their health and behaviour. There's no reason they're being held in a children's room. And the fact that a stray is released does not mean that it is abandoned to its fate, but there should be constant supervision by the veterinary services of the municipalities mentioned, so as to check the animal's incorporation into the environment at regular intervals, its health and so on. It is precisely in this planning that we are proposing that the action of voluntary groups and pro-zootic associations, in cooperation and coordination with the public services, can also be integrated. Otherwise these people, prozonics who are active through pro-zootic organisations, volunteers if you want, will fight as they do to this day and nothing will happen. Even the money you are considering as a grant for pro-zootic unions - Article 43 - you are actually making use of it not to solve the problem and strengthen their action, but to make them accomplices to an unacceptable situation and to a policy of conferring state competence on volunteers, much more to individuals. So, once again, the practice of both the government and the previous governments is confirmed that any minimum funds available to the right and the left for a situation such as that of dealing with the escalating situation, without any real results, at the same time opening windows for client, vote for municipal councillors, presidents and municipal councillors and others. With your bill, Article 10, essentially the return of animals to their surroundings from an obligation to convert it into a possibility, since nowhere do you mention these infrastructures necessary for scientificly sound management of the problem. On the other hand, the word dominating is 'a refuge', that is to say, the hunting house in which, on the basis of the provisions of Article 10, a life-threatening stray can be imprisoned. In fact, you also anticipate the possibility of setting up forest and grassland shelters - Article 28 - while suspending existing decisions to seal illegal hunting houses. And you do that because at the heart of your mind you have the incarceration of animals, which is unacceptable. In fact, you are promoting the incarceration in shelters created by individuals as well as with all the problems identified by operators such as GEOTE, the GEOGY and the pro-zootic bodies referred to in Articles 28 and 29, with which we disagree. We believe that only certain cases of strays should be hosted in shelters, for example, under recovery, of young animals and others, and only temporarily, to operate exclusively within municipal hospitals, with appropriate conditions of decent animal welfare, with a single regulation on all shelters and not with the classifications laid down in Article 29, which stipulates other standards for shelters that are adopted abroad. As far as foreign adoption is concerned, Article 7 allows pro-zootic unions, i.e. legal persons, with whom we disagree. Feeding and medical care costs should not exist and there should be a limit to the adoptions which can be made by a natural person. In this context, we disagree with Article 2 on the definition of the contractor. The overall responsibility of the management of the stray problem should be fully exercised by the State, without intermediaries, assignments, without any business and this includes the responsibility of the adoptions. In addition, contrary to the provisions of Article 3, we are again saying that the labelling and registration of pet animals, cigarettes, should be carried out by the veterinary structures of the municipalities and not by private veterinary surgeons, who should be removed from this responsibility. Because you are providing in your bill indicators of implementation and evaluation of programmes, let us tell you that the indicators of your state and your assessments are a mockery and stubbornness. We have literally been dizzy for so many years by all governments, but all governments, for the indicators of the government's performance. So, what happened to these indicators? Quite simply, they get excellent in terms of services to capital and under the basis of services to the people. Mercy now with this mockery and your ridicule. Second axis of our opposition to the bill. What's he doing? It strengthens the marketing of animals, while the possession of a pet is transformed into a luxury. We do not disagree - and we have said in committee - that the stray tank is kept animals. What, though, is the main source of the dominance of animals in today's society, therefore also of stray animals? Trade, commercialized rearing. Yes or no? In other words, the profit-driven farming, which has been shown to be the main cause of the abuse and death of dogs and cats, as well as the marketing of small animals, puppies of severely ill, degenerative diseases, with false clean-up certificates. And just in the face of the possibility of gaining huge profits from large companies in the industry, large farms, not only in Greece, but mainly abroad, whatever moral suspensions they swallow, go for a walk. In this respect, there is nothing to be said, since the fraudulent persecution of illicit trade leaves the large companies, who usually do legal business and which, with the bill, will come out strengthened, since the imposition of the sterilisation of the dominance is actually pushing people into the pet market. Because even the possibility for a guardian to keep his animal unsterilised for a single birth and after paying the raisin to save his DNA, requires universal sterilisation and actually pushs people into the pet market. So, how can big traders and big farmers not "throw their hands" with your bill, Minister and government gentlemen? Consciously "close your eyes" in reality and load all the responsibility to a pet's simple guardian, turning the possession of a pet into a repulsive and hideous one, while on the other you turn the pet into a kind of luxury. Really - we put it in committee too - did you think that in order for a people's family, which you say you are interested in, too, in complying with your laws will have to pay more than EUR 200? Because that's how much they come out, if we calculate sterilisation, DNA control, cigarettes, passports, and that's just what's provided for in your bill. In our view it is unacceptable. That is why we are voting against Articles 4 and 14 which provide for the unreasonable charges for animal guardians, the billing of whistling and the mark of 150 euros for DNA. Therefore, we do not accept the market path you are promoting, but neither the raisins nor the single birth, since the DNA test can result, although there are reservations about this by scientific bodies expressed in the Committee of Bodies, such as GEOTE and veterinarians, which should be clarified in terms of effectiveness, i.e. traceability of stray animals through DNA. So if DNA is possible to control and detect the generator in case of stray puppies, we are in agreement with the process, but not with the huge burden that this entails and should, in our view, be reduced to a minimum. Also, in Article 9 on professional groups such as farmers - we told you three times in the committees that preceded - the procedure should be free of charge. Dogs use them at work, the cattle farmers. How will these people sterilize their dogs, or how will they send DNA samples without any support? And we're talking about huge costs, and you know it very well. We also disagree with the provision to remove the hunting licence as a penalty for hunters if they do not comply with the "subjections" of the bill. We believe that the definition of the births of an unstained animal should be increased if the DNA process has been followed and the number should be determined by veterinary science for what is best for the animal's health and not on the basis of administrative logic. That is why we are voting against Article 8, in which you have also misunderstood the possibility of selling pets from the pet shop, which was not provided for in the original text of the draft law consultation. Similarly, as regards sterilisation, which has significant costs, once the guardian's obligation is imposed, the procedure must be financially strengthened by the State and not by opportunityal, fragmentary, as provided for in Article 12 with the so-called 'incentives', which are essentially a mockery. We disagree vertically with the provision of Article 25 on anonymous complaints, which should be branded and State protection for the complainant. We also do not understand - and we have asked you in committee - the exclusion of organised beaches and blue flag beaches as regards the access of dogs. Do we consider it unacceptable to have their access to whom? To every individual who is poorly shines the so-called "organised beaches" of the country. You are coming and enthusiastic through Article 26 for your final role, when you are responsible for fully subscribing veterinary services, which is seen by the huge gaps in the control of zoonoses and foods, with the known fraud phenomena, etc., the result of the resolute programmes of all governments so far, as well as the allocation of programmes to private veterinarians, breeders with the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government, who claimed to solve all the problems. The results are well known. Unresponsive animal disease outbreaks all previous years, pox, bluetongue, etc. We therefore express reservations about the measures provided for in Article 27 concerning lesbian animals, on the basis of the positions of both prozootic and veterinary bodies. We are opposed to the funding of channels for the promotion of messages. To provide that these messages will be displayed free of charge, without any canals subsidies. And we are opposed to the provisions of Article 49, in which the New Democracy Government reiterates the status of transferring powers from the City Council and the decisions of an executive body such as the Economic Commission to commit the municipal council or regional council, which are both political and even more decisive. And this is done by invoking the need to speed up credit contracts and goes on to say. Finally, the reproduction and disposal of pet animals cannot be a commercialised process. It is unacceptable for animals to be sold and purchased, imported and exported, to be profitable. We know that this proposal, which is adopted and shared by every sincerely philosophical person, runs counter to the 'heres and loyals' of a system at its core, which both the government and all other parties are consistently serving. We are aware of the European Union's rejection of it, which you all drink in its name - let us not forget - which is pretending to be interested in the so-called 'liability' of animals, as well as the grounds for a universal ban on trade and imports of pet animals. However, these are reasonable claims that can be made if the profit leaves the middle as a criterion of human productive activity. In view of the above, and of the fact that you are obviously not going to withdraw the bill, we are voting against it at first. Of course, there are articles in which we do not disagree with others on which we are going to the 'partners'. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Pecha, to submit his legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, it is a very difficult bill, a bill that has too many shareholders, too many people who are interested in it and a better framework for animal welfare and the limitation of stray animals. This was reflected in our discussions in the committees and in the hearing of the bodies. That is why the legislative improvements I will put forward are trying to combine many things that have been heard in committee. I will also try to group them together in order to give the spirit of the debate that has been held by various political parties and bodies. The following improvements shall be made: The first legislative improvement: in the first subparagraph of Article 2(3), ‘and referred to’ is replaced by ‘or referred to’. The second legislative improvement is linked to the fourth and ninth. At the end of the second subparagraph of Article 2(7), after the words ‘to be entered in the relevant sub-register referred to in paragraph 23’, the words ‘and have authorised shelters or shelters which comply with the requirements laid down in Articles 28 and 29’ shall be deleted. In other words, we make it easier for philosophical associations that do not have such shelters to be able to encapsulate animals and of course also to proceed with the contractor's procedure, since they have contacts with contractors in order to reduce the number of stray animals not only with shelters but also directly from their collection. The third legislative improvement: at the end of the first subparagraph of Article 2, paragraph 24 is deleted. We want there to be no question here that in the register of offenders all abusers will be recorded, even if they are not pet animals and they are working animals as provided for in the relevant draft law on the very strict penalties for animal abuse. Point 5 of the legislative improvement is linked to point 12. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 13 of Article 4 after the words ‘in sensitive and vulnerable social groups’ are added the words ‘and the owners of dogs used exclusively for the storage of flocks (wheat)’. Point 12: in Article 14(2), the following subparagraph is added: ‘Dog owners who are used exclusively for the purpose of guarding flocks (wheat) shall be exempted from the obligation to pay the wrong of the present day’. Here there has been an extensive debate with all the political parties and because the animals used by our farmers for the primary sector are necessary precisely to carry out their work, they are also exempted from the obligation of the EUR 150 violation of genetic material, but also of course also from labelling and sterilisation, and I believe they are due to yesterday's debate in the committee. Legislative improvement with number six: in the second subparagraph of paragraph 16 of Article 4, the words ‘three years’ shall be replaced by ‘five years’ and the words ‘3+ years without any signs of life’. This is another debate we had yesterday on the deletion of strays who have many years to give signs of life and have been registered in the relevant register in order to respond to our debate yesterday. In point 7 of the legislative improvement in the first subparagraph of Article 7(2), the words ‘or staying on a contractor’ shall be added to the words ‘or staying on a contractor’ in order to be complete in this field. Legislative improvement with number eight: in (b) paragraph 10 of Article 8, the words ‘sixteen (16) weeks’ shall be replaced by ‘twelfth (12) weeks’. It was a typographic error marked and corrected. Point 10: In the case of (a) of paragraph 8 of Article 10, the words ‘One (1) member’ shall be replaced by ‘Two (2) members’, the words ‘determined’ shall be replaced by ‘determined’ and in the case of (d) of paragraph 8 of Article 10 the words ‘Two (2) representatives’ shall be replaced by ‘one (1) representative’, the words ‘determined’ shall be replaced by ‘determined’ and the words ‘with their alternates’ shall be replaced by ‘with its alternate’. What's that? It is our response to philosophical unions as well as to many of the political parties in the Coupling, and not that they wanted enhanced participation by philosophical organisations in the committee responsible. Point thirteen: in the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 22 after the words ‘The presence of a veterinarian’ the words ‘or a professional dog instructor’ shall be deleted as it was considered by the majority. Legislative improvement of the number of 14: At the end of paragraph 2 of Article 23, five subparagraphs shall be added: ‘It shall be prohibited to abuse and slaughter animals in this context. In the cases referred to in the preceding subparagraph, the second subparagraph of Article 34(2) shall apply. An event involving an animal or animal licence is licensed by a decision of the municipal council of the municipality where the event will take place. The inspector shall draw up a report before the event submitted to the City Council before the adoption of the event, which shall form an integral part of the decision of the City Council. The inspector shall draw up a new report following the conclusion of the event confirming that the welfare of the animal or animals involved in the event has not been violated.’ We are finally clear here with the participation of animals in such events, a subject which the prozootics have raised and which has also been discussed in our committees. Point 15 of the Legislative Improvement: in paragraph 5 of Article 23, the word ‘territorial’ and the point of position (part) before it shall be deleted. It is a response to the concern that the research community had that we may have had issues with research using rodents, although the previous provision only talked about the manufacture of medicinal products. However, in order for there to be no misinterpretation, the word 'terrorists' is deleted. Legislative improvement number sixteen: in Article 24(2) with the word ‘prohibited’, the words ‘conservation’ and ‘strength’ are added. Legislative improvement with number seventeen: in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 28 after the words ‘they’, the words ‘these’ shall be inserted after the words ‘they’ shall be deleted ‘from two hundred (200) metres’ and the words ‘from the end of the settlement’ shall be deleted ‘or five hundred (500) metres from houses, schools and hospitals’. That is to say, we have reached the threshold set by acknowledging a real situation. Eighteen point. in Article 4(6), the word ‘Agreement’ is replaced by the words ‘within 10 (10) days’; In Article 34, paragraph 7 is added as follows: ‘In the cases of crimes under this law, any pro-zootic association or non-profit-making organisation that operates at local or national level and is registered in the Register of Philozoozootic Associations and Organisations of the National Register of Pets, irrespective of whether it has suffered material damage, in support of the category alone. The declaration may be made both during the proceedings and at the hearing in accordance with Article 84 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (c.4620/2019, I'96).’; Let me take the floor for that, because there might be a misunderstanding here. The removal of this process by pro-zootic organisations had taken place in the draft law because there had meanwhile been Law 4620/2019, i.e. the new Code of Criminal Procedure, as in force since 1-7-2019, on the rule of SYRIZA, which limited the right to a statement in support of the category and more actively legalised is only the direct obedient of the crime or more precisely the entity of the good offended by the criminal act and is protected by the criminal provision, which is the subject of the particular trial each time. In other words, we had to have immediate damage in order to have such a performance. We thought we had to comply with it. However, following our debate and the issues that have been raised by pro-zootic organisations, we considered that we should anticipate the performance in support of the category and only the pro-zootic associations or non-profit-making organisations that are active at local or national level and are registered in the Register of Philozootic Associations and Organisations of the National Register of Pets. Point 20 must be read together with point 11 of the legislative improvements and I shall say them together. Point 11 states that Article 10, paragraph 14 is added as follows: ‘Citizens shall comply with the obligations set out in this Article within six (6) months following the publication of this Article’, and point 20, paragraph 6, after the words ‘By common decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Finance’, is added ‘issued within three (3) months of the publication of this article’. Many of you have argued that it is a great burden for local government. We are giving a transitional period of about six months of adaptation and at the same time we are committed to strengthening the resources for which I have also referred to in the committees, namely, the EUR 15 million recurring revenue from the CFP to deal with the operational expenditure of the municipalities, this ministerial decision will be adopted within the next quarter, so in the context of the preparation of the budget for next year. Also, with this opportunity to say something I have said to the committees that the invitation to submit proposals by municipalities or associations of municipalities or development agencies to create shelters by themselves or jointly will come out within the next few days, immediately after the ETUC is issued, if the National Delegation approves this bill. Immediately afterwards, we will proceed to the call for expressions of interest for a period of time by 28-2-2022, so that they have sufficient time and the sum of EUR 40 million will be explicitly provided for in the invitation. I would remind you that the first EUR 43 million of the 'PHILOPOS II' programme has been met with 30 municipalities or associations of municipalities, and we consider the sum of EUR 40 million to be sufficient to cover the others as well. Legal improvement number 21: ‘At the end of paragraph 9 of Article 45, after the words ‘Article 14’, the words ‘and to extend the categories of pet owners who are obliged to send a sample of their animal's genetic material to the FAOZS, which is the relevant institute of the Athens Academy. The latest legislative improvement, number 22, is as follows: ‘In paragraph 6 of Article 6, the third subparagraph is added as follows: ‘Failures authorised until the entry into force of this Regulation shall comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 28 and 29 until 30-9-2023’, in order not to call into question but to allow sufficient time to adapt. To conclude, I would like to say that these extensive legislative improvements reflect that, in fact, when we came to the committee, we had a framework that we wanted to broaden, listening to everyone's views and incorporate those that can improve this framework, because our aim is not to hide the problem under the carpet, but to put a framework on which we are building, to make our commitment so that no animal is stray and no animal is malicious. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too, Minister. The reason is now the Special Buyer of the Greek Solution, Mr. Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Petsa, I don't know if it's a choice to present the legislators before I get to Stepma, because you knew that a hurricane is coming against you and those who are disgusting about your bill, but this is where two interpretations happen: one is if you say that the government is listening to the opposition. But here, it turns out you're completely unmasked. You know you're bringing in a new bill? You changed the whole bill, Mr. Pecha. You've been talking about law school for half an hour. In legal terms - as I have noted with pleasure - all our proposals and reasonable points have been included. But that's awesome! What does that show? It shows that it was a bill written on the leg, that it was an unacceptable bill. I wonder how you supported it. I, too, wonder with your sacrifice, Mr. Pecha. It's a bill of the Voridis Maki, which you took on you, on your shoulder, and you support it to the end of the fall. And Mr. Vorides, who brought this piece of legislation, is not here to support it, but you came. You're the hero of this case. Where's Mr. Vorides to support it? What sacrifice is that? What cooperation is this between the two interior ministers? So much for each other? Of course, you're laughing! What can you do? But it's Voridis's. And you come here and you've taken it on your shoulder and carried it. Well, is it possible twenty seconds before I get to the Stepma that you've done forty legislators, have you changed the whole bill? What does that prove? That in what we've been talking about for four, five, six days, we were absolutely right and that what you brought, it was a useless thing, Mr. Pecha. You should've kicked it and thrown it away. That's what you had to do from the start. What's your motto? "You said, did you do it?" You did a hole in the water, Mr. Pecha! You did a hole in the water. That's what you did. You didn't say, and you didn't. The slogans will eat you, the communication will eat you, the American commuters will eat you, the Westerns, the Daltons, the "bad the horses" and the random, spontaneous interventions of the Prime Minister in radio stations. These will eat you, communication, because you don't look at the substance. In this bill, Mr. Petsa, the first conversation we told you about as Greek Solution in the first committee five days ago was this: the only bill we will not put any political elements into, any ideological background. We're not gonna fight about the animals. We'll talk about helping the pets. We have dozens of other opportunities to bail out, to fight ideologically, to upset you in legality and opposition, but that's what we're going to leave out. And what did we tell you as first placement? All the stuff you brought in as a legislator. So while we are telling you all these legislative four days before you bring them, you are giving the floor to the committee and you are attacking us not good. I want us in the political war. Good, it's a political battle. But play with good guns, right. And what did you tell us? "To listen to Greece today that Kyriakos Mitsotakis wants to help not a single stray on the streets and the bad Opposition comes and does not want to succeed." That's what you told us. Such a fairy tale you sell to the world. That's what you said. This is a treacherous blow, Mr. Pecha. Is that what we said? You normally know what I was supposed to say today? What we said, you brought them into law school, good night, and I left. That's what I had to say. Nothing else. Whatever we told you, you brought it to legislators. So what you brought was a useless thing. But this is a disgrace to what you're doing today! It's a disgrace! How did you do that, boy? It's terrible to have the whole world in front of you, everyone: breeders, farmers, hunters, veterinarians, parties, philosophers, volunteers all over the planet. It's like you're on a fast-moving road that cars go with a hundred and twenty kilometers and you go backwards and say "they go backwards". No, you go backwards. They don't go backwards. They're doing fine. You go backwards on the road. You don't know what's going on with you. Either you are deaf or you are selfish or you are stubborn so that you do not listen to the selfish things that everyone else tells you. You're one of them. It's awesome! What can I tell you? But the difference in relation to the previous ones, Mr. Pechas, is that we may be talking about financial bills, about anything, but here the souls will pay it again. We told you this bill doesn't work. What didn't you understand? It doesn't work! You also understood that you did not do and came today and changed too much, and not even the rapporteurs have all spoken. I haven't seen them yet, but I wrote them down. Of course, what should I note? Don't I remember what I told you? That's what the Greek Solution told you. We remember them, we told you. 'We have said so, you have done so.' Change the password. 'We have said so, you have done so.' This is the normal slogan, because full copying falls into everything, in Greek Solution proposals for all issues. Full copy! But at least do it from the beginning. What is wrong with us? Fight in the committees, fight right and left? Do it all along. Please tell us: "Please tell the scientific team of the Greek Solution to send me a little bit of the labels on the bill to make them a law of the state". What are you guys practicing? There's no other explanation. We really want anything to improve the living conditions of our little friends. Just like that. Because their conditions are very difficult, they're intolerable. We are talking about innocent creatures who are abused, tortured, and who are at the mercy of the human beings. And while everyone belonging to the team who cares for and is in the wider, if you like, category of everyday with strays and not only - and with pet animals and livestock animals, everything - you close your ears hermetically and say, "No, I will do mine, so Vorides wrote it in May." How will that happen, Mr. Pecha? That's not how things work. There are epidemics who exploit them, who have them undernourished, without basic care, without care, plunged into a cage. What should I start? They are tied twenty-four hours a day in open or closed spaces with chains of heavy weight and they are swept, swollen, with ticks, inside the disease, chained along the road, in barrels. They are the famous "holy dogs". Do you know that? They're leaving them anytime, on roads, on bridges, on mountains. And when they don't need them and they're a burden, they throw them away. They fold them in sick cages, do illegal sales within or outside Greece. Some who claim to be philosophers or amateur breeders, not only have them in terrible conditions, but also have them as reproduction machines to speculate and then abandon them to their fate. Even horses and donkeys suffer in the hands of owners, malnutrition carrying weights for many hours. You didn't bring it as a legislator. Our suggestion was that horses, mules, should have a class on what's been done on donkeys, mules, horses. Put a chip on it all, because if there's any complaint about any of these horses, equidae, etc., they're disappearing from the front to save the punishment. What I'm describing is reality. The other reality is the paperwork you bring here. The laws, however, apply in practice, and that is the act. And, of course, stray pets also live their own torment. They wander in the streets, in the squares, in dangers and try to survive. And the numbers, Mr. Pecha, are relentless. And it's a sign of our culture, unfortunately! There are about one million eight hundred thousand dogs and over two million cats stray in Greece right now. That's the hard reality. What does today's bill say here? I will not say 'Article 14(4)(a), (b) and (c)'. Don't give up on that. That's for the lawyers. What does the bill say to make people understand today what the bill says? For the first time, Mr Petsa - to change this too, you can prevent - permanent incarceration in the hunting houses is allowed by this bill - you are hearing it as complicated and contributory - by the mayor's decision. The mayor decides, which you know what the mayor will say - not all of them, but some - "get 'em up, pick 'em up'. Now, let's go to second: Sliding and DNA. Now, let me say something: first of all, all stray sterilisation must be compulsory, we do not talk about it and the municipalities must take care of it, except for volunteers, philosophicals, etc. That's the only way to solve the problem. Now for the DNA, I'm not a doctor. I asked veterinarians and they told me that the DNA sample in animals really isn't evidence, it's an indication, it's not like man. But make it a little picture, you're from the province, I'm from the province too. Now imagine a village in your province. One who has two dogs up there to go do DNA? But, well, the Christian, who makes 20 euros, isn't going to pay 150 euros to do DNA tests? Are we all right? Make it a little picture. And I told you - most importantly - that there is another danger with DNA. What is the risk? In order to avoid the punishment of that son of a bitch once he has given birth, etc. He'll kill them so he doesn't have any evidence. He'll take them, throw them in a bin all in a bag to put the son of a bitch in, so that they don't find them tomorrow - the day after they get the dog, they get DNA, they go to the center, they identify it is Mylonakis' dog and they say: "Ah, Mylonakis left it." And how is this whole cycle going to be? No one will. We're opening a deal with DNA, and you can understand it. What else does the bill say, or at least he said? You changed everything, it's awesome! A private breeder's association will be licensed by breeders? Yannis drinks Yannis buying. The private association will permit breeders to play. So, what's going on? We're talking about a party here. What do we say and what did you do? The municipalities and they can't respond, and they're loaded with others. Here comes the legislature and you give them a period of adaptation and grace. You've heard of the bill of Greek Solution, good for you! What else did we tell you the other day? You removed the second representative of the prozootics from the five-member committee of the municipalities. Do you bring this back, Mr. Pecha, why didn't I hear it well?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u77	So it's recurring. What did we tell you? Wrong that you remove one representative and you bring him back. You abolished the possibility of a lawyer. Now pro-zonals are allowed to have an attorney in the courts. You're bringing this back, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u78	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u79	You brought this back, too, because you had abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u80	I told you why, I explained why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Pecha, I didn't say we had a deficit of explanation, that you didn't explain. Obviously, you explained. Here, on the one hand, we are glad that you have accepted everything, but on the other, we are upset because for three days you have been defending something else and not that, something rough, something that was quite different. We have 30,000 fines, 50,000. The fines will not be collected, Minister. The perpetrator will never pay for it, and he will never pay for his crime. There is, however, a lack of policing by both the police and the municipal police. That's where we have to focus, and that's where we have to go. What else did we say? That it is unacceptable that any pro-zootic club, a pro-zoo that has no refuge, should not be allowed to collect strays. But isn't that unacceptable? We talked about it, you did it. Change the slogan: "The Greek Solution said it, we did it." You brought that back, too. So a philosopher who has no shelter or a volunteer to go and pick up two dogs is not forbidden. Whoever reintroduces sterile animals, Mr Pecha - can we see this a little - is responsible for possible physical damage that these animals can cause tomorrow? So if I collect two dogs from the street, save them, embolise them, give them for adoption, or reentry them into society, and they bite Lionel tomorrow, it's my fault? So I'm gonna let them die? You can't do that. Look at that, too. You've got time for legislators yet. Here to do the bill together today because I see you don't have it, but instead you brought it together. I told you yesterday about your Kappa Tau. Is it possible to relieve the katelet if he puts in the storage room, where the suitcases, kittens and dogs enter? If he says, "Oh, I didn't see it," he's free of charges. But is that possible? How can we build such attitudes, philosophy, and culture right? Is it possible that I can't go get my cage, have my dog and get the ship to go to Gia, Crete and Kalymnos anywhere? Can this be prohibited in 2021? On the one hand, we want to build this culture and, on the other, treat them as if animal products were harmful? "No, you won't have it there." Is that possible, Mr. Pecha? We ask you to pass this now. Tied dogs in 2021, allowed to be tied dogs in 2021? It says the law 'up to two hours a day'. What do you think? How would you know? I've got it all day tied up and you came to see me? 'I have now tied it up'. Take that out with legislation, Mr. Pecha. It's forbidden for dogs to be tied to chains. Now you do it. We told you about the puppies. It's a felony to abandon puppies and abuses, etc. I didn't understand for a three-year-old animal, was it not a felony? You brought that too. Do you hear, Mr. Parliamentary, what has he done? It's all in it. Rejoice or frustrate you for bringing in a bill that you have changed all of it today? What can we do? For the animals on rooftops, bring legal work not for us, but for the world. Are animals allowed on roofs in 2021? Is it possible animals on roofs? Would you leave that little animal on the roof with 45 degrees Celsius tied? Didn't you see what happened in Barumbas, Evia? They were burned and charred tens, hundreds of dogs, and they were found with chains. They couldn't leave to escape and lived the drama burning alive. That's all we had to say, Mr. Pecha. The House should normally have postponed today. Let's say "children we go next week or tomorrow - tomorrow" because you had another bill. "We brought today, because we don't have it, another bill. We give you two - three days to consider it and to come here." We may have voted and 'yes', you don't know that. You may also get a "no" huge. But give us some time because you've done everything I see. And something about the legal stuff I told you, it's not allowed tied dogs, there's no animal on rooftops, we're a civilized state. Mr. Pecha, do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Adamopoulou now had the floor for a special speaker in Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, just after the first three special speakers spoke, and before we talked about me and Mr. Hetas, you bring legislative improvements, which are quite important. I denounce this practice, it is extremely unparliamentary. I am not personally interested in your legislative improvements, as I am not interested in the unnecessary amendments you have tabled. It's a systematic tactic of the government because this way he wants to play with the opposition, he wants to deceive the opposition. So I won't deal with your legislative improvements, at least, in protology. I will not adjust my speech and I will think about it if I do anything about secondary education. I was going to talk about the timeliness for some completely fraudulent announcements by the Prime Minister. I shall speak very briefly because I want to respect the parliamentary procedure not to derogate from the matter. I am talking about some money that the Prime Minister has given, EUR 3.5 billion, of which only EUR 400 million will eventually be paid. This is the extension of the measure. He talked about reducing the EMS, the results of this measure will be seen at the end of this year, it will not be 1% or one 1. We saw how he tries to buy out the consciousness of the young people whom he targeted, trampled them in the squares, reduced the underpaid wage with the smallest wage in Greece, pan-European, with 30% unemployment, and now he goes to buy them with the GB in order to be vaccinated. Purchase of consciences normal! Because he has seen that his percentages have been reduced in young people, so this is how he is trying to treat them, effectively improperly and exploiting the confessed dependence that young people have on them. And of course, we see a public health system which collapses, the new Minister, the Minister for Health, coming to say that it is okay, it is not compulsory for the National Health System to be state-owned, let us hand it over to private individuals. You have, anyway, opened the way for this by suspending a health contract, which will simply cover gaps from private and public-private partnerships. These are, in short, topical and urgent subjects of major importance. We see that you are in desperation, and that is why you are resorting to measures which also deceive the people, but also, in fact, aspirin, measures which make fun of them. I'm coming to the bill. It was clear to you, Minister, to the celebrity of rejecting this bill, not only by the opposition - let us agree with Mrs Liikanouli, we do not know so much about the subject - but above all the bodies, the scientific community, unions that did not invite you to consult, by bodies that traditionally disagree, they have heterogeneous approaches and mutual and mutual interests. Nevertheless, at the moment there has been a celebratory coalition against the infamous bill, which you are bringing, and we have told you and we have told you again, because you have not called for unions and I will mention in particular what I mean. You've reached the Veterinary Association, which is a primary trade union organization. Because you said that all those who react, in essence, serve the trade union claims and interests. The Panhellenic Veterinary Association is also a trade union, and it expresses the interests of private veterinarians. You didn't call the Chamber, which is a state institution. He's a state advisor. All the views of the veterinary world are expressed within the framework of the GEOTE, which you have also not invited. They shall express the views of private veterinarians, veterinary surgeons serving the administrative and control authorities and the veterinary university community. Why didn't you call them because they're trade unionists? Then why did you call him? So everyone, too, has pointed out the problem of the draft law. We weren't just judging the bill. If you resort to the Minutes, you will see that we have also made counter-proposals because you have asked us. The Minutes, I do not know if you have seen them, but we have referred to specific articles, such as the wording of abuse. There, from what we see, you responded. As also with the blurred criteria between amateur and professional breeder. So our language has haired to point to your mistakes, your failures, but unfortunately, we see that there is an obsession on your part not having ears nor vis-à-vis us. So what are you doing? You transfer responsibilities to needless services, you break down the Ministry of Agriculture's Veterinary Service and transfer it to the Ministry of the Interior, where I repeat that we have to repeat what we have said in committee as well. Unfortunately, I will become tiring, but as the process is, and given that you do not listen to us, we will repeat, however graphic we may hear. You are therefore fragmenting the Veterinary Service of the Ministry of Rural Development, transferring it to the Ministry of the Interior, where, as I said, it has no experience, it has no knowledge of digital tools, it has no institutional memory. And this goes against all rational planning, against the contributions of the scientific community, to the suggestions made by both ministries, not only by the Ministry of Rural Development, but also against - and this is the great inconsistencies and contradiction - to the commitments made by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Voridis. I refer to his statements. I even asked where the Minister is because he did not come to support the bill. Does he withdraw these commitments? He had said that in any case, this is a legislative initiative of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. He pledged during the debate a timely question from Mrs Giannakopoulou that the basic international standards of the World Organisation for Animal Health will be followed, which says exactly that the department responsible for supervision is the Ministry of Rural Development's Veterinary Office. Mrs Arabatzi, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, in response to a question that she said that the veterinary service remains a central authority. The Veterinary Service of the Ministry of Rural Development shall be the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs of the Ministry of Rural Development as a central authority responsible for the control of the population of stray animals. Another time-limited question is the same. There is no such thing, they had said features, no technical or scientific reason to remove the relevant competence from the Directorate of the Veterinary Office. I shall submit to the Minutes a total of those invoked. We also have an interview with Mr Voridis, who points out the same thing, that this initiative is a legislative initiative by the Ministry of Rural Development. You want, therefore, to despair, inactivate all the control mechanisms you so much love, you want to hand over the animals to the inhuman exploitation by extra-institutional centres, by illegal circuits, by opaque procedures, with incomplete consultation, you want to entrust the management of stray animals to NGOs of doubtful credibility to individuals without serious conditions. You said to a legislator, if I'm not mistaken, the collection will be taken care of by pro-zoa unions, organizations, without facilities, without infrastructure. How's that thing? So it is very reasonable to tell you that, with your legislation, you do not promote animal welfare, you do not guarantee the effective management and monitoring of their populations, you do not protect either the dominant or the strayers in the way you do not promote responsible property, you relax the whole framework of supervision of the management of the deceased population, thereby enacting public health, and of course you open up and widen the way for irregular rearing with the wrong criteria of differentiation between professional and amateur breeder with the insuperable obstacles that you put again in supervision of effective controls, without adopting the standards of the European Commission of International Experts, because you want to facilitate the illicit rearing, illegal breeding and trafficking of pet animals. Also, from the current system of animal welfare, which must be systematic and not circumstantial, and from the current system that has entrusted it to the municipalities, exclusively to the municipalities and public bodies, you are going to the other side. In other words, by way of exception, such competence to be assisted by the volunteering of organisations, you carry that responsibility from the binding competence of municipal authorities and public bodies to private individuals. You are transferring it to non-governmental organisations without supervision by the competent authorities, which are only scientifically responsible for exercising this supervision, which is the veterinary services of the municipal authorities and the central authority, i.e. without substantial conditions, without infrastructure, without personnel, without the specifications required. Let's go to the question of the wide self-righteousness of the philosophical boyas, which starts with the definition you give the stray animal, a definition that we wonder where you took it from. No country, no international practice shows us that an animal is stray because it has no marking or registration, that is, someone has removed his chip. On the other hand, in the rest of the countries where this is the case and a pet is found without labelling or registration, it is simply the owner of the animal that is subject to sanctions because it has not exactly labelled it. So now you are making it easier for those who want to remove the chip with'so I want' and even to get the pet to take care of it for free, not to bear the cost and the expense, to transfer the cost to the municipalities and later what to do? They hand over the pet for adoption by making money out of this whole story. Same goes for the contractor. The notion of a contractor does not even exist in the legislative texts of the European Union. What are you doing? You accept - because this is basically what we understand as being the professional philosophers, who do not adopt animals, but are hosting them so that they do not take the cost, which is borne by the municipalities, and in this way what are you doing? You legalise the vague preservation of animals in illegal shelters, i.e. opening the door to mass delivery and dispatch of these animals to shelters both internal and external, and those abroad will become contractors and will end up marketing animals and so the animals will end up becoming cosmetics. I'm talking about an example. Their fat and what's left of it becomes cosmetics, becomes a nice profit for the pharmaceutical industries. As I have pointed out to you in committee, the vast majority of criminal cases, involving criminal offences against the trafficking and trafficking of stray animals, concern precisely animals intended for contractors and not for adoption. They were intended for legal persons who then just hosted them and delivered them to individuals to fill their pockets. You say that you are taking care to reduce the population of strays through adoption programmes, but I also told the committee that you are not giving a premium, that you are not motivating people to adopt them, so what are you doing? What we have all seen, namely that you are looking after an unprecedented promotion of these strays abroad just to perpetuate black money. As far as the powers of the municipalities are concerned, you are abolishing the current framework which the municipalities want to ensure for the collection, care and management of pet animals in general, limiting the municipalities to having a proclamative type of operational plan without documentation, no meaning, i.e. a blank letter. Instead of municipal services that are already outdated and subordinated and staffed with the necessary staff, decentralised administrations should be involved in the whole process of managing the programmes concerned, the regions, as they have pointed out, and the agencies precisely in order to allocate the operational burden, since municipal services are already obsolete, instead of you to alleviate and distribute the operational burden, what are you doing? Do you open the door to set up an immunity party on the citizens' backs, just to fill their pockets with private individuals, non-governmental organisations, because, basically, the municipalities are going to do what? They will give the entire package of veterinary services free of charge and at the same time they will not be supervised by anyone. They'll be uncontrollable. There is another big issue that has to do with the funding of the municipalities. You mentioned funding from the ARGOS programme. Apart from a unclear forecast of sources of funding, there is no mention of any specific amounts, you have not even made a clear and concrete estimate of costs and costs. You spoke of a single sum of EUR 40 million and an annual grant of EUR 15 million, but, as I said, in the "Philodimos" and "Antonis Tritsis" financial programmes, there was only EUR 44 million one, there is no provision for the annual grant. I would also like to address myself to the issue of sterilisation, which ultimately seems to be compulsory, because when you impose sanctions on the owners who do not carry out sterilisation, and when you anticipate, which is ultimately not an alternative, DNA sampling, which is a multi-expected process, based on which scientific data - we would like you to submit in the Minutes the relevant reports, why did you tell us that you have such reports - is considered DNA sampling as an alternative? Which countries are applying this solution, since you claim to be applying best practices? In any case, it is a costly process. You'll have to lower the cost. I'd say remove it. Either way, we're denounced, we're condemning forced sterilization anyway. You should also look at modulation in strays too - I would venture to say - because a scientific fiction scenario - we will finally be sending people who are not necessary to us and which is a burden on the insurance system. That's where we'll get there. Of course, you are now called conspiracy, but many conspiracies experience them as a reality. Even now, at about five, you will have to consider your differentiation to the Greek breeds of dogs. We have the Greek Shepherd, the Molossos Epirus, the Greek Shepherd, the coconut, we have really charismatic, with great gift, recognized by the international cynical federation and other unrecognized races, which are adapted to the conditions of the country. Many even are used as shepherds of labor. By the way, the Greek shepherd is the best guard. But these stripes are threatened with extinction. These dogs should never be sterilised. Incentives should be given to their reproduction. In my dentistry, I shall submit to the Minutes and provisions which you have removed from the existing legislative framework, important provisions which have to do with shelters in the municipalities. I should like to refer to my dentistry. I conclude, therefore, by saying that both the committee and the plenary and the bodies, what we have as an overall assessment is that your draft law contains extremely problematic, extremely dangerous and inefficient provisions for pets and by extension for public health and, more generally, for the system of supervision and control of these animals. It is a sensitive topic with very great social importance, with strong social interest, which is why participation in public consultation, which you have not accepted in the bill, was so steadfastly involved, and you have not even accepted to meet these bodies. So the least we are asking you to do is withdraw the bill, come into public consultation seriously with the bodies you have deceived with civil society, in order to bring a serious, coherent framework that really protects animals and does not deliver them to international illegal trade in circuits and in extra-institutional centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Just because the ladies and gentlemen were not in the committees to listen to the debate we had on the comments, we really said it was a very difficult bill. Mrs Adamopoulou says that we do not take into account the institutions, we do not take into account the comments. When we have amended the original draft law on too many points, taking into account the comments, what have we done? Didn't we take note of the comments? You said a moment ago that you were against universal sterilization. Did we not take into account the fourteen thousand comments from the twenty-eight thousand comments which had to do with these two basic articles and have we adapted and allowed the alternative? Why are you saying we haven't received the comments in mind? Do we have so many other things to see and how can we improve them and say things that we have discussed and exhausted? Also, how can you say that we haven't taken into account one another or another? We have had a exhaustive dialogue over a year with different phases, with different political leaderships of the Ministry of Interior. But at some point we have to end up. We won't hide the problem under the carpet. We want to take a step forward, what we call 'no stray animal, no malicious animal'. We won't hide the problem. We know that it is a framework that in the next few years I wish to improve. But now there's nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give Mrs Fotio to SYRIZA's speech by way of derogation from the list of speakers, because she must be present at the ex-Holy sequence of our former colleague, Giannis Theonas, you will also allow me to express my condolences, as did the President of Parliament in the death of the historic Leftist, who has been a Member of the Communist Party of Greece from 1994 to 2000, and then participated in the establishment of SYRIZA, which she has also been a Member of Parliament for many years. I would ask you to keep a minute's silence. [[At this point, all Members of Parliament stand up for a minute's silence]] His memory is eternity. Mrs Fotou, may I ask you, on behalf of Parliament, to convey the warmest condolences to the family and its own. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President, and of course I will. We also say goodbye to Giannis Theonas on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, of which he was a valuable member. We say good-bye with great respect, appreciation and love, which also surrounded us all these unprecedented and interesting and yet difficult years of our common course. We are confident that the reserve that leaves our country for unity and dialogue and joint action in the struggles is a reserve, necessary and timely as ever. We are grateful to him and we will be very much missed. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for pets, which we are debating today, is a typical example of the state's administration. That is why I have been given more reason to highlight the typology with which you have been legislating for two years. It's a five-point typology one would say. First point. Instead of improving existing Greek legislation, introduce regulations that conflict with European and global organisations' directives, such as the transfer of pet health issues by the Ministry of Rural Development, which has the competent veterinary services in the depriving municipalities and services and know-how, conflicts with instructions from the World Health Organisation and the World Health Organisation of European legislation and all relevant Greek bodies, chambers and universities. Secondly, you legislate without mapping out an existing situation without scientific documentation, without an analysis of the causes of the problem, the issue. In our case, everything is happening in a cradle, without a scientifically targeted and documentary manner, without any reference to the relationship between the care of stray animals and non-dominant animals - with public health. Third point. When it has been tragically demonstrated that the division of powers between ministries has devastating effects today - and in most of the bills - the division of powers between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of the Interior is also applied to the pet animals as well as the municipalities, which have until now only had general care for the strays of their region. But the municipalities do not have enough staff - they have told you - and most of the municipalities to date do not have veterinary and veterinary services. We therefore have the extremely dysfunctional shape of the dog belonging to the farm and to the flock, but also to the dog of the apartment and to their health at the Ministry of Veterinary Affairs, as well as to their living and living conditions, nutrition, abuse, freedom of expression, the characteristics of their species, etc. the Ministry of the Interior. Fourth characteristic point. These divisions of competence between ministries do not normally entail - we have seen it recently - additional funding. They're done free of charge with the blessings of the state of service. I heard you before. You can't convince me, Minister. In this case, we know that what you already have at the end is the 44 million anticipated by SYRIZA. 44 million to do what? You'll put in the extras. We'll see, Minister. But that's all there is. What can they do? Everything. Electronic recording of all pet animals and non-e-labelling to supervise the sterilisation or registration of DNA to a special bank of the Academy of Athens, as well as the procedure for the adoption of stray animals and the creation of an incinerator and cemetery of animals by contributing as always to private individuals. Fifth feature. When you attempt such sloppy service solutions result in irrationalities and contradictions such as fines to the municipalities if they neglect the obligations, but no penalty for those who are neglecting the receptive animals awarded to them by the municipalities, many times and without a contract of analytical obligations. In shelters, you are amending the existing legislation to worsen the situation, because they are no longer required to be authorised by veterinary authorities and other authorities who have so far judged each shelter on the basis of numerous parameters to permit it, such as location, protection against extreme weather, disease, possible attacks from external wild animals, etc. The bill separates professionals from amateur pet breeders. The amateur breeder shall not be checked as to the origin of the animals provided that he declares them in the national pet register as stray animals. And then he can transfer them to someone else by making illegal trade. It is not at all controlled in terms of the living and welfare conditions it provides to the animals it hosts. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill we are debating is another example of the communication purposes of the state of staff because that is typology. It does not bring any positive change to what is currently in force. You say that the state cares for stray animals and kept animals to build a pro-zootic government profile, while on the contrary you create many additional problems that endanger the health, well-being and ultimately the survival of pet animals. We will not consent to that and we will vote against it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u88	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsis, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to say something that no one mentioned. It is our duty and obligation to say so. For us in Greek Solution, hunters are economists. It is interwoven and its presence combined by the existence of nature. Some people think they're bad. Maybe I, as a human, disagree with the prey killed by a hunter. Because I'm a philosopher too. The point is, the hunters must be both economists and philosophers. They must love nature. And maybe nature's balance needs the hunters as well. I mean, need these people too. It's the chain, you know, of this planet called Earth. But for us in Greek Solution, hunters are much more important. And it escapes everyone's attention. Perhaps these people should also be used as a militia. It may sound strange because no government has so far understood the usefulness of the militia and ethnic militia, which many European countries have, such as Switzerland and Germany, who have a real militia and an ethnic militia. Not an ethnic militia or militia like us have it here. Because we fear the word 'national' because we fear the active citizen - a soldier. For us, the citizen who votes and is an active citizen must also be a citizen, otherwise he cannot be a citizen. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I tell the Minister with all the good will. They have to see it sometime in the New Democracy. They're getting ideas. It is good because the Greek Solution and the ideas and arguments put forward each time. But it is better for us that the government hears us faster. I won't tell what he's taken until today. But I will say that the Prime Minister for the Rafale he took was very pleased, but he did not say who proposed that he take Rafale. And the one who proposed to get Rafale into his office was the Greek Solution and no one else. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As the Prime Minister did not say that the armored Typhon we had and you presented it to the ICU as yours, was my intervention, confiscated here in Piraeus. We made a call from them. And that's why we have to exist. There is and there will be too much to do with the opposite. Minister, I am forced to do this today and to do this as an answer because the Greek solution has not gone and never went to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. I didn't go. And as a Member I was avoiding it in the past. But as President of the Greek Solution, I avoid going to the D.T.O. Because I'm an entrepreneur, I'm an entrepreneur. It's neither a celebration of political lies nor political liars. I'm saying it's for people to understand it. I'm going to ask a rhetorical question. Is there even an announcement by a Prime Minister for twenty years who has announced it to the ICU and implemented it? I'll tell you. Oh, no. Search and find one in 20 years. One. Because ID we're talking about a subway that's going to happen. We're talking about a coastline that's going to happen. We're talking about PAOK stadiums, Mars, Hercules to be done. He'll be! And I say it to understand why I consider the presence of political persons to be abusive to a business economic event. Tell me which other country that has an international exhibition that is partisan and politicized. I won't say about the incidents that happened in the past. But I'll say that. Clearly the Prime Minister must go. Only the Prime Minister of the country. No one else. To make the opening. This is a serious country. It is a serious country, which respects itself, which respects at least what it decides to do as an international event and does not tarnish it. The presence of Greek politicians, who are falsely trying and attempting to hold the vote of Greeks, is a blemish to the political staff of the country. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'd like to say about the ID. And I'm doing this because we didn't do a press conference. And we'll never give. You are lying about New Democracy and the rest of the parties about Thessaloniki. Highways in the 1950s. Seafront of fifty and sixty years old. Metro with just one line. The airport's going, it didn't go. There's no measure in the world that doesn't go to the airport. If you even find me in Uganda, Africa, if there's a subway that doesn't go to the airport, we can talk about it. These are the gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA. You give beads to natives by redeeming and buying votes. I'm ashamed to say it, but that's what it is. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Thessaloniki has four streets. It doesn't have a periphery. There's four streets in this town. Not to say that it seemed distorted to me, it seemed to me to be journalistic and national inappropriate that not one journalist dared to ask the Greek Prime Minister about the name of Macedonia and the violations on the part of Skopje of the Pespa Agreement, the betrayal, shameful good or bad against many others. We're treasoning. Nobody dared. Journalism not even from ‘LIDL’. Payroll Journalism. Sadly, Mr. Pecha, you got caught up with the retina. Pessa List. And you know, if they stick your retina, you'd better get your eye out despite your name. Now everything related to payroll and money to journalists is guaranteed by Mr. Petcha. Irrespective of whether others have given a lot more than Mr. Pecha. Straight ahead. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, we're talking about punctuality. There is a very simple solution not to raise the bread. To abolish VAT on bread and on first-hand items. So it absorbs at this price the exact accuracy that exists on the market. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's a dramatic situation. And you've been doing it for a few months so the market will balance. The Minister of Development has been out on the channels and said that this will take a few months. Good. What does the serious government do for the Greek who has suffered poverty, hunger and poverty? Suspension of VAT on basic consumption goods so that we do not have the same problem. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I've heard with sorrow this. I address the Members of the New Democracy. Of the hundred fifty eight, today is two - three. It's okay. I heard Greek Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition with the following steep. 'Our interests with Turkey are fully aligned.' I can't believe you're exquisite! I wonder which mind he told the Prime Minister to say that our country's interests are in line with Turkey, with the enemy of Greece claiming the Aegean, Cyprus, Crete, Thrace, all of Greece. And I will say something to the Prime Minister who is not here and to the Members of the New Democracy who are absent. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, Greece has never aligned its interests with those of Turkey. In no case, because the property is very simply owned not subject to an interest regime but to a system of historical reality which Turkey has been claiming for decades ago. The Prime Minister has reappointed something naive - I will not say a suspect - that he will legislate to ban fishing, for overfishing in the Aegean, in specific areas not to fish. I consider it reasonable, because there is overfishing, something needs to be done, but before you go and deprive the bread of the Greek fisherman, the bread of the Greek who eats from the Aegean fish, you have to make fishing zones and ban Turkey from fishing in the Aegean Sea. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It will allow the Turkish to fish, but the Greek will be prohibited from fishing. Today we had an incident - I don't know if you've heard - a Turkish fisherman threatened to slaughter Greek fishermen while both of them were fishing in Greek waters, because the New Democracy never dared to make fishing zones - never! - just like the Change Movement, like SYRIZA, because you're all the same. Once you're in power, you become systematic clean domestic servants, but also a lavatory factor that always looks at any of its choices to enforce them. I would like to say this, too, because he spoke about milk, he said about farmers. Of course, the Greek Prime Minister said, "I don't know if he knows from a rural economy - I imagine that man grew up in the enclaves, in Athens, has nothing to do with the field - he told us about farmers of a thousand acres, "I spoke" - he says - "with a farmer who has a thousand acres of field in Kalashtra". The biggest problem of the country's agriculture is that, its pathogen, that all farmers have ten, twenty acres, and man invokes a type that has a thousand acres that no one else exists in Greece. There's one, and he found one! Spontaneously he was found, any local man there in Chalastra will be in New Democracy, but a thousand acres who have? Who's got a thousand acres, so I know? Ten, twenty-five, thirty-five at the most, Mr Colleague. And what did he say? That he's making new crops and everything. What we have been telling him for two years to make a plan and a programme, he is announcing it a two-year delay. But where's the worst of all? And here is the point: speak of farmers. And tell you what the farmers' problem is? Serious reafforestation to make large growing areas! A man who deals with the primary sector tells you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] He talked about the farmers and milk. Someone has to tell him by the Prime Minister - who can't know it all, and my man, Mr. Pecha, can't know it all, can't, so many advisers you're paying - that the milk and its price are determined by your friends, dairy-industrials, who have devastated Greek livestock. How did they tear her apart? Listen to me a little: Beyond expensive feed and so on, you are making sloppy imports of harmful milk from Bulgaria and Romania. Close the border with the Greek fetish imports so that the crime with the Greek feta does not happen! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] How can it be done? Because we have a European Union, it is done, Mr Pecha. What Germany did with the Netherlands. The Dutch have developed livestock in the past twenty years, and the Germans on the border have continuously carried out controls on the quality of eggs, so that livestock collapsed in the Netherlands because they found a whole lot - not to tell you what they found - dangerous substances for humans. If you really control the milk border, which comes from Bulgaria or Romania, directly all these milk, because they are dangerous, will be returned to their countries and so will stimulate Greek livestock production to produce more milk. It's just things. I would like, Mr President, when a Member speaks, to have her back turned away, I think she is inappropriate to the Greek Parliament and to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u90	Madam Colleague, please, you sound very loud.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u91	Listen: small businesses with a turnover of up to EUR 2 million, up to ten employees, the government does not support them, it only strengthens its big best friends, Mr Petsa, who have as deceased monsters the state-owned koruna. Instead of supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises of ten workers, the EUR 2 million cigarettes to produce products, so that we do not have any inputs from abroad into like products, that is, you deprive - if you like - of the 'help' benefits, subsidies or even loans from these companies. It's a disgrace! You're making mistakes! The spine of Greece is the small and medium-sized enterprise of ten employees, the 2 million euros. That is where we have to rely, not on German wind turbines, because our best friends have wind turbines. All the few in Greece suddenly became economists, all of them! Take names and see! I won't say about 1200 euros a month. I heard him, and I was happy. The Greek Prime Minister came and told the IGC that he would give the young people 1,200 euros, Mr. Pecha. We're all happy. It's raining money, I say, it's got to be time for everyone to pick up, keep an umbrellas. And it comes out the next day of interpretative that says this is for six months. The Prime Minister said 1200 euros a month, 1200 euros for six months are, that is, all of these cobblestones, which also expose the Prime Minister, they also expose the New Democracy, they expose the political staff of the country in total, they must stop. To tell the Greek people the truth: you want to lower taxes on businesses and you are doing well. Why don't you abolish the trade fee, which is an unfair tax? Remove him! Why do you not abolish HISPIA, which is an unfair tax, which you have been saying for years, that you will abolish it? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why don't you remove the valeurs of the banks that get 20 euros in each transaction? Why? In the past, there was the justification for the liquidation. We understand that. Now with a button everything is done! Where's Pierracis doing everything electronically? I'm telling you basic things. Also, for the license plates, for a bunch of things. What I did not like, however, Mr Pecha, is that he did not commit that the ESRB will go to small and medium-sized enterprises. The NRP must go to small and medium-sized enterprises, not to your friends. And when the Prime Minister of the country calls Thessaloniki "Bardaris city", he does not understand that the word is foreign and is not about Greek history. When you use a foreign expression for the Greek language, for the "bride of Thermaikos", for the capital of Macedonia, Macedonia with such prime ministers will not have a good end or a good path. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Prime Minister announced the oncology center, streets, didn't tell us where to find the money. Where's the money going to get it? Announce the extension of the subway, announce fields to PAOK, Mars, Hercules, everywhere - give stadiums everywhere! - to Hercules not, but only to the other two large groups. Why? Because we all have to be hostages of these promises and the next government - it may be SYRIZA, it may be the Change Movement - these commitments that the Prime Minister wants to make in his mind, in his imagination, which cannot be realised because there is no money, will be taken over by another government, which will be bound by the previous government, which, before being a common politicalist, behaved once again, as every year, in the IGC. Why would that happen? The end of the hypocrisy of the New Democracy is the statement by the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who said "I have been ruling for two years". Is that how you brought him down, sky down? Wasn't it Minister for decades? I have no responsibility for everything in the country, two years I rule. I know that the Mitsotakis family has been in the country's political staff for forty years, and it is well, it is chosen by some, their right, but it cannot say "two years I am ruling". You have been a minister for 15 years since we met you, Prime Minister, you have been Minister. So you don't have any involvement? Didn't you have any knowledge, perception of what was going on? And he invoked the German Constitutional Court for a ruling! The Constitutional Court, which is hypocrisy by a Prime Minister, when it does not decide to do what the Greek Solution tells him, to undo the S.E. from political decisions and a constitutional court yesterday, so that we can use it not as politicians, but the citizens of this court! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As soon as the New Democracy collapses, hops and spontaneous polls. What's that thing? Aren't you bored? It comes out the next day of the report, which took 300 grand for other work by the government and makes a poll, Mr. Pecha. "He wants to hide and joy doesn't leave her" you are, that is, they don't do these things, children. With where he goes out to the ICU and does not do well - regardless of what some people say - the poll comes out, "Third units difference New Democracy", "five units difference New Democracy", "great Prime Minister". Anyone who is huge as a Prime Minister or as a politician is shown by works and not by local pollsters, understand it. The works prove you're huge. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I won't say about Mr. Tsipras. Okay, it's a pupil parade. He went to PPC and started making reductions everywhere, tax reductions, "I will give subsidies, I will give this, I will give it". Listen a little: this logic of 'Bavroyalus', 'I give it everything and when I come to the government, I change them', it is not really possible and I am sad. But when the Prime Minister in an interview at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition - the Prime Minister himself! - interfering turkeys with the elections, then we have a problem, because it turns out that when you mix turkeys, you're not eagle neither you nor your opponent. Greece needs eagles, not turkeys, to finish the tiles, to finish! And we as a Greek Solution are addressing 55% of the Greeks, those who did not vote. Of those who did not go to vote for 45% is locked in your parties and enslaved. These people have been enslaved to public service with service, with ruffles, etc., which you're even doing now. We're talking to 55%. We leave it at 45%. It's what he's accomplice to the constant crimes of their parties. We are addressing the 55% of the Greeks who did not go to vote. One Sunday, one day from their lives, we ask them to vote and we will give them the dignity they deserve. We'll make all the rest of the days be good. A four-year period we ask, one to strengthen the Greek Solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because time is pushing, I'm going to read something similar for all of you who voted for SYRIZA, Change Movement and New Democracy, mainly because New Democracy imposes the criminal law of enforced vaccination. Evryviadis Bayramidis. They gave it to me today. I don't know the man. He's an expert who's doing bypass and brain surgery in a public hospital. The man was suspended, as I was informed this morning. And he says: "Where there is disinfection, scientificism disappears. Nothing in medicine is absolute. I doubt the enforceability of vaccination, because I see the obsession to an absolute degree, when we record serious side effects sometimes and fatalities. Without a serious record of side effects, we will not know the scientific truth." Friends and friends, I'll tell you directly. The man is a scientist and says something else, which makes me more sceptical: do not compel anyone to do something. Mandatory democracy is a dictatorship. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] There's no democratic obligation, understand it. Also, I will tell you something about the hell of the elections that come and many times about the choices made by your parties as governments. The road to hell is not stranded with good intentions - that is wrong - it is always stranded with good pretexts. "For your good we want the vaccine, for your own good, for your own good." So you create reflexes, so you create reactions, so you create a lot of negative images to those who are uninvasive. I'm not talking about those people who don't want to because they're just not sure about the vaccine. Do you allow as a government of the New Democracy False Left Festival without there being COVID? Do you allow marches? Allow me, Amal? Do you allow Rallie Acropolis to which the Prime Minister is going? Do you allow Gay Pride? You allow all this, but you forbid the famines of the church. How, then, can the Greeks not be vigilant with what you do? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You forbid Paros Our Virgin Mary, in Tinos Our Virgin Mary, in Virgin Mary Sumella, but everything else is allowed. There's nowhere to be found. National parades - 28 October - are clearly prohibited - the anniversarys, the famine, the church, the demonstrations against compulsory vaccination. Our customs and festivities are forbidden. That's not government. This is a selective reference to the democratic process, to the democratic regime. We are talking about a regime of totalitarian, purely resurrected, messengeric, Christian. You're all of this. Welcome to "Electronic Greece", which messed up with illegal vaccines, Mr. Pierracakis. You know, when you're a politician, there's a time coming in and out of there, so we don't know what's going on. A selection report by the Prime Minister in Sweden. He referred to the left government of Sweden and its results. However, he did not tell us that Sweden never made a lockdown, did not kill the economy and said that even socialist Sweden is cooperating with private health. Yes, but even the socialist Sweden or the democratic Sweden or the right did not lockdown like you did and you killed all the businesses and killed the country's economy. Our friends are doing business. I'll give the numbers, boys, and take each one of your conclusions. Hot money from Greek's blood goes into their friends' pocket. We are talking about 10 euros the test for three million workers for twice a week, revenues are EUR 60 million a week for best friends, for doubtful rapid test, and for four times a month it is EUR 240 million a month. In five months it is 1.2 billion, which means that in one year it would be 2-2.5 billion. This money could be paid to the retired person, to the farmer, to the farmer, to the small and medium-sized ones, to the civil servant, to the private employee. We'd give it there and not to our best friends, ten to fifteen oligars. Punish the invaders. It's your right. The invasive person who pays the rapid test is harmless and is released. If he kept doing free, he'd be dangerous. So do the tests for free to everyone - free! - if you care about the health of the Greeks. Don't punish the Greek because he's afraid to make a vaccine. And stop disinforming the journalists. The Greek Solution was never against the vaccines. Among us, to executives and friends, I have said that anyone who wants to do it can. Look among you who the invaders are and who are justified because they are ill and lying that they have been vaccinated, to end this Greek Solution story. Democratically, anyone who wants my MPs goes and does it. I don't insist on anyone doing it or doing it. And if I want to, I'll go do it. If I want to, I'll go. Minister, let me give you a solution to tell the Prime Minister. They don't need a test, they don't need a test. To perform antibody tests on all Greeks to see where the vaccines are needed. There's a solution. Why don't you do that? Run antibody tests. It's a little more expensive, but we're talking about billions of euros, you're gonna earn it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy: 'The people were silent and no one was speaking, because they were afraid and saw that the conspiracies were many'. These are written by Thucydides. For conspiracy conspiracies. Do you want solutions? Here is the Greek Solution and will now give it to you. First of all, take out the impunity from doctors' ministers. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Second of all, remove the impunity from bankers and banks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Third, delete debts. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In particular, what we are telling you, Minister, has cost everything and how the money can be made. If your people don't know, come to us and prove to you how they can be done. I need a little more time, Mr President, and I'm closing. I'd like to go a little bit to education. For us in the Greek Solution the cornerstone of the citizens and the next day of the country and nation is education. For all of you and the Prime Minister himself - and I will say this in public -, with the exception of many Members of the New Democracy whom I do not know because I know their views, nation, people, sex, even man himself are fantastic structures. So you say, what a nation, what a nation, what a nation, what a story. It is said by some here, by the Prime Minister who speaks of 'blocking'. For us in the Greek Solution the defence of the traditional functioning of the family, of the school, of society is a strategic part of the survival of the country and of the nation. That is our difference and it is essential. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] New Democracy and Mrs.Keramos fights Greek-centered education, the role of our country is silenced, Byzantine history does not exist anywhere. Fight the Greek-centered education not at all and the Greeks remember the great empire of Byzantium, not to mention the once global superpower, not to mention the child's ability to change with a lot of things. You learn unorthodox things to our children. I read you from the book the New Greek Language in the text: "The society that is changing". Mr. Brutsi, listen to me, you're a parliamentary representative. So I read to you: '10 years ago Greece gave the impression of a uniform nation state.' I quote it in the Minutes. Hear me, he says: '10 years ago'. It's unbelievable. It's a book that made me angry. And he says: "He has urgently raised the issue of the coexistence of different ethnic groups" rather than of homogeneity. It's in New Greek, a book of New Democracy. Listen, too: "In Greece it remains forbidden in many respects for a man or boy to develop his female side." Who forbids that? This is your book, in the New Greek language. Who forbids that? Any man who wants to become a woman becomes a woman and any woman who wants it. To our child? Where is it forbidden? Are we writing these in the books? "Such time parents express concern that their son prefers to play with dolls." These are written in the books of the New Greek Language of Graduate. And I continue: “... while they are less nervous about their daughters and that’s where the oppression that boys receive seems to be.” What's the oppression? To be a boy? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I ask you. Mr. Peshasha, I'm asking you. Is it oppression to feel like a boy? Is that what New Democracy books teach in school? Enjoy them! Governments also care for students. Unfortunately, they only care about the lads. I have a reply to you here from the Commissioner of the European Union, Mr Fraghu. What did the Commissioner say? He said that while there are funds to give children pools this morning, Mr Minister, Greece does not absorb them and is a New Democracy. First started in 2016 on SYRIZA and continues now. I will also submit this document to the Minutes, to open your eyes, to get the money, to give the children, the little girls, to be able to have a pile of decent things. But, otherwise, you give billions to feed with mineral waters, with Arabic pies, with fishes, with chickens in hot spots because your best friends use money. The echoes! Illegal immigrants who came here. And I say all this - because I have to close sometime - because I know that some people are ashamed in New Democracy of what the New Democracy is doing, which has nothing to do with Constantine Karamanlis, nothing to do with the ideological, nationalistic concept of this party for decades. After a few years, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with what you are doing, you will be ashamed of the shame as it sees you now and will be ashamed! And she'll be ashamed. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You have lost your ideological compass, national line, education and education for our children. You've lost the ball. You've lost everything. All you have to do is watch out for us not to lose is our homeland, our Greece, our nation! Watch out for that, too. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll read you something from Alexandros Papadiamantis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u92	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Mr President, so that I do not tire you, Mr President, because you are more easily tired than others. "The holiday gave birth to poverty. Poverty starved. Hunger produced the mountains. The appetizer gave birth to arbitraryness. Suffering has given birth to politics." Alexander Papadiamantis, so we don't forget. Here, then, is the authentic origin of the bad policy that you have been working on for so many years. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, I'm going to ask a rhetorical question. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say the exactest current, I will not say all that, I shall avoid it. But I'll say something serious. New Republic and SYRIZA are preparing to co-operate. It's foreseeable and I'll prove it with arguments. You, SYRIZA, have voted - the KINAL has exceeded itself, 80% of the bills - about 60% of the bills brought by the New Democracy. Karanikas is mocking the Prime Minister. The New Democracy by Ministers is mocking Karanika. Your Minister was specializing the Minister of New Democracy yesterday in an interview in common. Your spokesman for foreign affairs cares for the New Democracy. They are your statements, I do not want to put them personally. There's no reason, since there's an underground connection. And also, all of you come with a slimming of concepts, terms and opinions to say what? What the Prime Minister said, that only the first two parties will be able to co-operate. That's what the Prime Minister told the PM said, that I cannot agree with SYRIZA, but only the first two parties can agree and cooperate and unite. He said it himself. In his mind is that and in Alexis Tsipras' mind. Seems. Every time we talk in here, all three come in. They speak to each other and Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennamas. I don't know when the Prime Minister's coming. Neither one of me nor Mr. Koutsoubas is informed either by Mr. Varoufakis. The others shall be informed. Look, these underground routes along with the petting you are taking with your Ministers - SYRIZA Ministers and Ministers of New Democracy - lead mathematically to the conclusion of the conflict that comes. Otherwise, why would you vote 60 percent of the bills? You tell me! Sixty percent! Approximately 70% with 80% KINAL. Every vote to the government of Mr Mitsotakis, to the New Democracy - and I address the Greek voters - is also a Minister of SYRIZA. Every vote that goes there is also a Minister under SYRIZA. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So 55% of the Greeks say: Give us one day from your life on Sunday of the elections! We'll give you thousands of other days good for your children and for you! Make Greece better. First Greece! First the Greeks! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for the Interior, Mr. Petsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have two three answers due to the President of Greek Solution. First of all, there's a question about the bill. While Mr. Velopoulos closed his eye on the hunters, he seems not to ask his rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u96	I have two dogs!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u97	...who said before he was in favour of universal sterilisation. Did you ask the hunters if they were in favour of universal sterilization?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u98	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u99	The rapporteur said to you 'not dogs in the platters and rooftops'. Did you ask the hunters if they say 'not to the gates and the rooftops'? You won't fish in bluish waters. It's hard for the bill, we know, we're trying to do what we need to do so that we can take a step forward. But in blurred waters you won't be fishing. With regard to the lies - you continued in your speech - all the Prime Ministers are supposed to say. I don't know about the other Prime Ministers. You can place yourself in your mind if you have the program of Thessaloniki by Mr. Tsipras. You may have this in your mind. But Kyriakos Mitsotakis, when in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, before he became Prime Minister, went and said he would reduce HNVIA, reduced HNVIA. He reduced him by 22% and then a further reduction. He reduced the tax on businesses from 29% to 24% and now he announced to 22% and goes to approach 20%. Reduce the import rate of 9% to natural persons from 22%. So who's lying and who's not letting anyone who's listening to us judge? With regard to the "killed" economy. We said - but it seems that you did not read ELSTAT's latest communications - 16.2% the Greek economy developed in the second quarter. What "killed" economy? I don't know any dead economy with such growth rates. It appears that measures to protect and protect health and society as well as to produce tissue yield, Mr Velopoulos, and will continue to yield the next time. You said an antibody test instead of a test on the other forms of coronary diagnosis. But the antibody test tells us about the past, what happened yesterday. Tomorrow, can you tell us what's going to happen? We cannot close the eye to either the uninfected or the rest of the society that wants to be protected and can move freely and quickly recover the regularity lost by the coronary pandemic. On the subject of the party of Constantine Karamanlis, we are proud to be the followers of this party, Mr Velopole. And we haven't forgotten anything, and we proved it whether it was in Evros or it has to do with the daily lives of representation of national interests everywhere and beyond. The country - what you mentioned before - we have it in our hearts and we keep showing it every day. And that's why we act on the saying of Constantine Karamanlis that it's the New Democracy that embraces the Greek society from the left to the right. And that will keep Mr. Mitsotakis doing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u102	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. My Minister, I would like to answer once again by saying that I never speak vote. I talked about a different agenda. You know what I told you? For a militia and an ethnic militia that can be used. You took it to the sterilisation. Do you have dogs? Do you have one? I have two. When you have one, come give me suggestions for philanthropy. Second of all, I talked about an ethnic prison. You said you'd abolish the HISPHA, not that you'd reduce it. Repeal, I'm asking for you. You're telling me about a reduction. Also, because you said the Prime Minister didn't lie, I didn't say he lied much. I said that he lied a few or a lot and a lot of half-truths, such as for illegal immigrants. He'd told the PD that he'd never do structures again. And now Flushion, Lesvos, Samos, Chios, Limnos become the structures of billions of euros. What's that? Isn't that a lie? Say it as you wish. Of course, I'll tell you, sir. Basically, you don't have to know, but ELSTAT gave her number, 16% growth, do you know where it's due? Look a little at nine months, as the Prime Minister said half the truth, that the statements were increased. How did they grow? It's very simple. Nine months off the market, nobody was buying anything. They left the money at the bank, so the deposits increased! So hard are the finances for you? I'm speaking as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u104	Good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u105	Now, the reason it's due, I'll tell you to understand it. I insist. You didn't tell me about the impunity - will you abolish it? - and bankers and banks and doctors and your best friends and friends. That's the only way you'll convince the one who doesn't think to go do the vaccine and convince the whole world. And closeing as for Karamanlis, I am glad that you are really proud, just like Mr. Vorides is proud - I imagine - of Karamanlis the first one, but I must tell you that the tear of Karamanlis for Macedonia does not find a response to the Greek Prime Minister. He doesn't care. There's always the state. It's okay. So I leave it there to feed his bones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr Minister, you have the floor for a supplementary placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I think you have misinterpreted our commitments to immigration: to safeguard our borders. We did it. Acceleration of asylum procedures. We did it. Closed pre-experienced centers. We're doing it. Therefore, what matters, Mr Velopoulos, are the numbers and numbers showing a very large reduction, dramatically reducing the flows and the residents of Greece. Why don't you recognize that? Just to make some communal placements. As far as the rest of the issues you have said are matters that you are now dealing with. Not that the Prime Minister lied or failed to meet his commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u109	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u110	So let us also look at the next path, how all these measures are going to be announced, amounting to EUR 3.5 billion, which relieve the Greek households of both the wave of appreciations, but also in relation to the prospects of the Greek economy. And as regards the 'where did growth come from?', it came from confidence, Mr Velopoulos. And this has been restored by the government of Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u111	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Republic, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, has the floor. It is true that Parliamentary Representatives can ask for the floor whenever they think they are. Of course, not after each other, two - three MPs or ministers will be intervened and the reason will be given. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the position of the Deputy Minister of the Interior and the answers he gave to the leader of the party "Greek Solution", Mr Velopoulos, I will be placed for the bill, because that is the way it should be. This is, in fact, an issue which Mr Velopoulos has not raised at all, although he should, because this is our bill today. I am obliged, however, to make just one small remark, which I owe to the New Democracy's party and the world, which I have the honour of serving from a small child, integrated into this ideologically worthy system of the New Democracy. If Mr Velopoulos was here, he would hear what I keep saying and my experience and history allow me, and never questioned the patriotic character of the New Democracy. The New Democracy since its founding to date in its ideological core is a political institution, which is deeply populous, liberal and patriotic. No one has ever been able to question the patriotic character of the New Democracy. And when and when New Democracy was called with Prime Ministers Constantine Karamanlis, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Antonis Samaras and today Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the front of our politicians was the national interest, Greece and the country above all. That was never questioned. I only wanted to make this introductory remark, because I owe it to Mr Velopoulos, who spoke with a very strong patriotic speech. We are pleased that there are patriotic parties that love the country, we believe that they are conscious, but in no case do we grant the right to say that they are more patriots and to question the patriotism of the New Democracy, this great patriotic nationalist party. When I saw this bill, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago in the consultation, I never thought it would be such a long time to discuss it here in Parliament and to have the honour of being a parliamentary representative. I say this because today, from this point of view, I shall speak in a double capacity: firstly, in the institutional capacity of the Parliamentary representative and secondly, of a person whose experiences and all my life were with animals which I had from a young child in our home. And then with my new family, I created again a new animal environment, always with dogs, which are companions of my life. Let me tell you, indeed, that I, instead of the words 'competent animals', would say'members of the family'. Only for members of my family can I describe the feelings of love, of fellowship, of company that I have felt and felt over the years. And I am glad to have both of my children, Nikki and Vassilis, in this same direction, to love animals, live with animals inside the house and be members of our family. So the bill goes through my personal experiences and experiences on this particular subject we are discussing today. I want to start by saying that it would be good in such a serious bill to catch the thread from the beginning. Let's see what's there today. Let's forget today's bill, put it aside. What is there today for our loved ones, who are all being cut here and say that 'we love them, we want to take care of them, there is a legal institutional framework that protects them'? What's up today? Is there something today? Today we're talking about the National Representation about this bill that I'm going to say and I'm going to describe there's nothing. There are short-term legal interventions which come to overlap each other or sometimes conflict with each other. A specific institutional framework for animals of the family, members of our family or pets, as the legislator says, does not exist. What are we trying to do today in this uncharted 'plain' in this institutional void that exists in this lack of a basic law on the protection of animals? And here I would like to say "congratulations" on the right at Stelios Petsa and Maki Voridis and Thodoris Livanios, who have spent a lot of time, as I know, in discussions that have taken place all this time, so that we can get to the Greek Parliament for the first time a coherent law on our animals, the animals we have in our home, the pet animals. This, ladies and gentlemen, comes to the Greek Parliament for the first time. For the first time. Question: Is it perfect? Answer: No. This basic law that is being created in Greece today is a law that will change several times in the future. However, for the first time today we have an institutional framework well organized which has emerged from a long and tortured dialogue, which has also been open to objections and doubts. And today we have a text of law on pets or on the members of our family, as I say, for the first time. This law, ladies and gentlemen, has been very critical of all parts of Parliament. I have heard, in fact, here in the top opposition positions, as they have heard, the lack of dialogue and discussion with the actors, as should have been. This draft law we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, is the longest in the time of consultation that has ever existed. It's been over a year. Undoubtedly, he's the biggest. How much more dialogue could be done? Two. I heard something first, 'cause it's for me that's never heard of. Although as a parliamentarian with experience in Parliament I have heard a great deal. Stelios Petsas was criticised for bringing - it says - twenty-two amendments today, when we discussed the bill, on this bill. So, what should he do? Close the ears? On the one hand, the government and the legislator are accused of not listening and not discussing, and when they bring in the amendments or the legislative improvements which are coming to supplement the text of the law, a difficult bill, a difficult project that we have for the first time, criticism, and why it today brings the amendments. Oh, my God! So what do we want? Are we criticizing and opposing opposition? One time to say that here we come to discuss seriously in a bill which is not so political. It is a bill which concerns all of us, our society. Where else did the review focus? The criticism focused mainly on the issue I mentioned, in the absence of dialogue, which, as I described, was the most tortured in dialogue. The second was to fund all the things that the bill says, the new structures it creates, the new structural changes it brings. But 40 million come only once in the vote of the bill in favour of the municipalities. Does anyone question that? Has there ever been such funding bravely in a bill which, with these features, has a clean economic environment of 40m euros? And rightly says the Opposition says: 'But will that be enough?'. No, that's not enough. Of course, we agree. There will be an additional EUR 15 million each year through the Ministry of Interior to all municipalities. Aren't these resources specific? The second major argument on the part of the Opposition is therefore abrogated. The third, also great, - and here too - because we must be honest with each other, let us look into the eyes when we discuss these issues - an objection from all the opposition was why jurisdiction should be left from the Ministry of Rural Development and go to the Ministry of Interior. I have been serving twenty years of self-government before I enter here as a Member of Parliament to serve the national Parliament and it is here and Mr Ragussa who is also serving as mayor in Paros and who can confirm it. But has there ever been a time in the process of politics in our country that we are not all in favour of self-government and say that only self-government has the knowledge, the best knowledge of society, based on the principle of subsidiarity? Isn't that what we say, Mr. Ragossi, always? We did not believe and continue to believe that responsibilities should be transferred from the central state to self-government, closer to the citizen, with only criticism of whether there are powers that are transferred from the necessary resources? But the resources exist, 40 million single and 15 million annually. Is it a criticism that we are transferring responsibilities to the competent institution, to self-government, which may be known by the mayor, municipal councillors, municipal committees, and to strayers and pets better than anyone else? Can the Ministry of Rural Development know and know better than self-government? Isn't that what we've been defending for so many years that we've at least been through self-government? We are talking about competences in self-government, together with resources. But is it a criticism - on the contrary, should it be a reward - that we transfer to the competent body best aware of the issues a social issue from anyone who has the power to do so? This, ladies and gentlemen, was a point of criticism, that we gave self-government this responsibility. Another point of criticism, because here we have to say our views freely, Mr Levanne, which we had discussed, and I personally had a strong objection to the consultation procedure, was a specific article of compulsory sterilisation. I even said that I would find it very difficult to vote for this article. Because I knew through my family now that I have a relationship with my own two pets, our two dogs at home that it was impossible for me personally to do that. The legislator comes in - and this means democratic process and consultation - and for the first time gives the bill the possibility of an alternative. I read it because it hasn't been heard. So there is the possibility of either universal sterilisation, which in strays will exist and is very right, or that this will happen. An alternative is provided, the owner may not sterilise the pet animal and choose, after having proceeded with the mandatory labelling of the animal, to send a sample of genetic material to the pet guarding and DNA analysis laboratory kept at the Athens Academy's Medical Research Foundation. This ensures that even if a non-labelled pet is abandoned it is easy to find its generator and thus its owner, who will have all the administrative and criminal sanctions envisaged. Where do we disagree with that? I personally will follow the second street, mark my pets, my two dogs, whose DNA I will testify. It's my choice. The legislator showed flexibility - and quite rightly so - and that calmed down all the main objections. Even with hunting clubs I had spoken to in the Cyclades where this was the controversial point of the dispute, they accepted that. Should we leave them uncontrollable? So, there's no control framework at all? No side took the position what we should do. Others said ‘not to the mandatory sterilisation’, others ‘yes to sterilisation, but’. In essence, however, it did not respond to any side of the question, and if it agrees with the issue at issue. The legislator, the Ministry of Interior, took care of the possibility of resolving the biggest problem of the bill with this in the correct and correct way. This is where all the opposition krone and objections I personally had about this particular article fall. Furthermore, to say that for this matter, there are exceptions for dogs who are working dogs, as she quite rightly described in an interview that Mrs Fotini Pipili gave today and here in her report. These dogs that offer important work near man and our farmers are excluded from this process. And before I finish, another argument which has been heard and which relates to this provision is the high cost. I'll take it. We're talking about 150 euros. But, just yesterday, the Prime Minister announced the reduction of feed from 13% to 6%. Is it a cost reduction for animals that we have in our family, rapporteurs? Is it or isn't it? Of course it is. I am now asking the question - the shape of a question - to put aside hypocrisy and look into the eyes. The 150 euros for those who decide to have a dog in their home, who love and care for it, is the big cost? On a monthly basis someone who has a dog who really wants to take care of it, take care of it, at least for a month's feed spends 50 euros, plus the accessories that he needs, plus the rest of the care you have to do with him, his vaccines, if he gets injured in taking it to the vet, get the veterinarian home. All of this is accumulated cost to someone who decides to have this cost in his home to have another member of his family, as I have done. So if we talk about the 150 euros, the Interior Ministry can give an answer tomorrow. For someone who consciously chooses to have this company and to enlarge his family with these dogs, as I say, we have built love and different relationships between us, this money is not the real obstacle to this particular issue. I now conclude with the point concerning the introduction of new structural structures brought by the bill. Here, let's say this. In this unprecedented project, for the first time, we have this legislation on pet animals or our family as I say it, the legislator comes and uses scientific tools. What are the scientific tools? They're the electronic records. The e-National Register of Pets Animals and Organisations, and the following sub-registration, sub-register of Pets Animals, sub-register of Philosophy Associations and Organisations, shall be established, sub-registration of Refugees in which all legally operating refuges of dogs and cats in the country, sub-region of Professionals and amateur Farmers, Passport Reserve, Panhellenic Platform for the Adoption of Feedings of Pets, sub-register of Voluntary Feeding Animals. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is not an easy project. It is, however, a new institutional basis on which the government comes to form a new environment which has not existed until now. That's exactly what we're trying to do. I also heard the Minister carefully and said that this is a difficult bill and we will agree. It affects all the factors that family animals can have to do with, with the animals we have in our homes, and that is why it is very difficult to implement. Today, however, there is a basis. This whole framework, which is now described, is a framework that creates the foundations for an optimistic future, which solves many problems and for the first time organises what we want to face: to lay rules on freedom, the protection of domestic animals, to limit strays, to punish, in a specific context, those who torture and abuse animals. This was not the case until now, apart from the provision brought by Mr Vorides - the specific one - which comes from a fragment, but is now being incorporated...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u113	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u114	Yes, Mr. President. Above all, however, there has been a debate in which all views have been heard. In fact, I consider it topical in the amendments tabled by the Minister, the one she tabled a moment ago, which the pro-zootic unions were persistently asking for, where she was a member of the original law and today - as Mrs Pipili confirms - two members of the pro-zootic organisations are involved in this amendment. I mean, we've heard society too. It wasn't an easy project. It was a project that was built over a year, in dialogue, in consultation. And finally, this proclamation of today's Prime Minister, then Chief of Police Response, Mr Mitsotakis, who had promised that we will build a modern institutional framework for the first time and lay the foundations for the protection of animals, become a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Lebanese Minister for Digital Governance has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let me say why I'm here. I will not talk to you about the relationship between pets and land registers and telecommunications. I had the pleasure and honour of starting the bill in the first eighteen months after the July 2019 elections and, indeed, I think that the change in legislation is necessary to protect pet animals, because not only was the government's election commitment, but because this time it is more necessary than ever. We need to start by seeing who's involved in the bill. The bill relates primarily to pet animals and in particular stray animals. It is about the conscientious guardian of the animal who has it as a member of his family. It concerns the farmer who sees their favorite animals as valuable components in keeping his flock. It's about the serious hunter who sees his dogs as friends and associates. It concerns the thousands of volunteers who, from their misery, feed stray animals and feel alone. It concerns those in and under any weather or other conditions voluntarily offer their time in shelters in order to improve the living conditions of the animals rather than in stores of souls. It concerns all those in faeces of a rogue refuge are trying to bring back to life a skeletoned and malnutritioned dog. It is also about guardians who are now at midnight in August were desperately calling for dogs in a burning area not knowing what their animals have become if they have found tragic death. It concerns municipalities which, from their misery, give them considerable resources to develop a modern programme for the restoration and management of stray animals. It also concerns those who, in August, set up the “Wonder of the Galatians” and found themselves accused of being pro-government. That bill helps them all. But it is about the particular bill and the unconscious one, who throws a newborn puppy into the trash can, for his dog gave birth to more animals than he would want and could not give them to friends. It concerns those who have been tied up, exposed to weather conditions without access to food and water. It concerns the municipalities that have left the animals at the mercy of God and in facilities that are similar to landfills. It concerns those who have unnecessarily left their animals in the fires of August and have found tragic death, many of them tied up. It's about some unconscious hunters who, when they find that their dog is not capable enough to catch the game, shoot it so it's not their burden. Minimal! It concerns those who promote illegal rearing and illegal trade without rules and controls. To them we're across the street. And, yes, it also concerns the organized prozootic movement, a split movement, a movement that is characterized by heavy expressions on social media - it reminds of the rivalry of a football team - a movement that has not managed to acquire organised status and a single voice, a movement that appears with many different expressions. For example, some federations are intended to prosecute philosophers and hunt shelters. Other people are exploiting their professional property to eventually harm animals, having zero philosophical activity. We have organisations that say that they had ready, translated two years of bills - I personally have seen none of them - foreign bills which have been implemented in countries with a different organisation, with a different structure and ultimately with a different problem, which believe that if they are implemented in Greece they will actually have a solution. Finally, we have other organisations that are very often changing standing positions and while they were once talking about responsible statements by the owners before their animal birth, because sterilisation was accurate, they reached the other end in eight years talking about compulsory sterilisation. However, this is now time to step aside and move on to a new beginning. And this bill is exactly what it serves. So let's start with the basics. Transfer responsibility from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to the Ministry of the Interior. First and foremost, it was the fifth point in the election programme of the New Democracy. I read by word - it changes - 'The Ministry of the Interior, which is supervised by local government'. I'm filing it for the Minutes, so you can have it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Digital Governance, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, traditionally the Ministry of Rural Development - and rightly so - gives more weight to productive animals. In fact, as a result of the great burden, transport was necessary. And here is a good-for-nothing misunderstanding or The Ministry responsible for monitoring animal health, monitoring zoonoses and zoonoses was and remains the Ministry of Rural Development, Article 3(1). Clearly! There is no multiplicity of veterinary services, there is no confusion. Indeed, if you look at d.d.40/2021 you will find that most of the responsibility of a section is transferred from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of Interior. And be sure that through ASEP soon, more will be strengthened by the staff of the Ministry of Interior who will deal with pet animals, so that young people, well-trained people, will come along, with appropriate qualifications to undertake the monitoring of the bill. More important: It is a central role in the management of pet animals that municipalities, well or badly. Some people like it, some people don't. This has already been institutionalised by the law of Kostas Scandalidis in 2012. I heard some people don't trust the municipalities, report cases of municipalities that haven't made it. Should I be tougher? There are municipalities that are completely indifferent. But that is no reason not to start again. For the first time, specific and measurable targets are set by the Ministry of Interior, which has the responsibility of the municipalities and is the first point the municipalities are addressing for whatever problem they have. And, indeed, I wonder why some of the prozootic movement object to this. And as the Minister, Mr Petsas, said, a very significant amount will be given to the principle of supplying equipment - van collection, for example, supplies of microchip scanners - and on a fixed annual basis there will be a specific amount to be allocated. Moreover, in the first period of the pandemic, the Government for the first time strengthened economic municipalities in the middle of a quarantine for the supply of feed, medicines for animals suffering from the first period of lockdown. In the end, however, it is also the definition of the local case. Two words about what's going on today. Yannis Brutsi said it at a point. How many of the currently operating shelters have legal operating conditions? How many animal adoptions are today? Is philosophical themselves happy with the treatment they currently have with L.4039? Are the municipalities happy with the resources they receive today? Dimitris Papastergiou said so yesterday. A thousand seventeen hundred euros (1,700) took for a year - seventeen bags of food to say so very fat - for a municipality of fifty thousand people and I do not remember how many thousand square kilometres of land. How many abandoned animals do we find in the mountains, fields, at the Penee dam recently? I imagine you have all heard - it is Mr Ragosi's constituency - Salamis, which is a point that many inhabitants of Lekanopedi go and leave their animals because it is the nearest island in Athens. Animal abuse is very important. In November 2020, the abuse of animals became a felony. Makis Voridis, Minister for Rural Development, has done so a felony. And even now it is becoming a felony and abandoning a newborn animal and still a criminal offence to abandon the animal. Why can't there be a felony? Because the newborn if you leave 99% is dead. The older animal has some chance of surviving. With regard to sterilization, the original project that came out in the consultation had two conflicting criticisms. "Why didn't you force sterilisation everywhere" and "why you forced sterilisation". They're totally contradictory. And that's where we're actually going. We want to control the stray population. We want better welfare for stray animals. How are stray animals born? Three are the ways. First, the abandonment of kept animals. Secondly, the reproduction of stray animals which are not sterile. And thirdly, from a very large proportion of illegal imports from abroad. They must be dogs over two million in Greece today. A number of disgraceful figures for a country with the area and population of Greece. How are we going to solve this? Three things. First, sterilisation as a rule. All guardians are obliged to sterilize their animal. What have we predicted for vulnerable groups, multitude, for LOD? Granting of sterilisation by the municipalities. What have we predicted? Legislative, shepherds came in. For the first time, it is possible to sterilise those who do not have the financial power to do so. Also, all stray animals are sterile either by the municipalities or by legally operating prozootic organisations. Does anyone not want to sterilize his animal or why, as Mr Brutsi said, he has a moral issue, or why he needs it, or why he is afraid that his ability will fall, for example in the hunt? Of course, but he'll give a DNA sample. Why? Because if we find tomorrow an abandoned newborn dead in a bin, we can immediately locate his parents. And because I have heard doubts about the method, they have nothing but to ask the staff with doctoral, established scientists, the Institute of Medical Research of the Athens Academy to explain them in detail. No 'I asked one, two doctors of veterinary surgeons and they told me'. Genetics is an entire science. This method is currently used in the passage of tens of thousands of crimes worldwide. We also opt for a public body to take on this innovative project, which also gives a great advantage. With DNA scientific research, hereditary pet disease can also be investigated. We will take the lead in Greece and Europe in this field of research. And thirdly, no introduction of a non-labelled animal and not derived from an authorised establishment. It expressly says that any dog that enters Greece should also be marked by a legal establishment of abroad in accordance with European directives. Because many people who are in favour of compulsory sterilisation without exceptions ask "but who will control the DNA", the answer is very simple. DNA will be checked by those who would control it, and whether the animal is sterile. We had a terrible shortage of pet chip detectors. With the grant that the municipalities will receive in particular, this gap will be covered and it will be covered very soon. I'll talk about the shelters. Firstly, there is no permanent incarceration, and indeed the possibility for the five-member committee to examine whether or not it will be reintegrated into the natural environment. Secondly, for the first time in Article 28 and 29, up-to-date standards for shelters are described. If we consider the 1978 standards to be fine, we should leave them. Do you know how many of the shelters they operate? Almost little because they had to have forty square houses and stuff. Land usage? Impossible. Ms. Likolis may, for example, ask Mr. Kamin and tell him the story of the refuge that had a friendly life and offered it free of charge to the Municipality of Athenians, who was never allowed to be licensed and lost an important donation. For us, therefore, shelters are temporary accommodation areas until an animal is adopted. And there is a reasonable question: If an animal walks around the city how will it be adopted, how will an ad get in to see it and say, "I want this little dog to adopt it"? Looking for it on the streets or telling him that we have a dog going somewhere in Lower Patisia, so did you run to adopt it? For the first time, a maximum of animals is set in the sanctuary for specific and measurable, four squares for each dog, two squares for each cat. Depending on the area available, the maximum number shall be fixed. That number doesn't break. The overconcentration of dogs in city shelters or not ends. And we also give the possibility to philosophers, prozootic organisations and even individuals to be able in a simple and modern and transparent way to take refuge. It is an initiative which the Citizens' Counsel welcomes, because we have said about the bodies that are protesting. I can say that the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor on this matter was very important. Mandatory transparency in shelters. Operating rules, public website. Report all animals hosted in daily updates. Eight hours a week in the middle of the weekend. There are no inaccessible shelters. Everyone will be able to visit them, whoever wants, and even control living conditions. I am also obliged, because we are also listening to feeding, that since they are making adoptions abroad, they are fully in line with European regulations. I heard criticism of the forest land. 'In the mountains, in the lagadia' he says 'get the animals'. First of all, easy road access is provided for. Second, there's got to be shelters somewhere. Half of Greece is forest, you know. There are places that can be built friendlyly in the surroundings. At the same time they say "but, so close will he be in houses" and so? There are insurance systems there, and there is also the municipality's right to decide where he wants to do it, taking over the benefit and any cost that can be incurred. And yes, we want shelters like Ilioupoli, what some people have got to shut it down. We want such shelters modern, carefully and with an integrated programme of adoption. The experience of August made us wiser in this part. For the first time, an obligation is provided for an emergency evacuation plan. For the first time the guardian has a malicious responsibility, if he can get his animal out of a fire, for example, and leave it tied in a field. For the first time, travel restrictions are abolished when there is an emergency. We lived in Evia when some people - there was a rumor - that they wouldn't let animals enter the ferry - boat to move across the street. Two words about animal trade. First, it would be advisable to reread the bill. An entire article, Article 7, talks about adoption clearly and in accordance with rules, public electronic adoption platform. Does my kid want to adopt a dog or a kitten? He's going into the platform and he's going to choose it centrally and with control. No dog adoption is published without the overlink of the adoption platform. No sales advertisement enters until the unique breeder code and all the information of the dog has been entered. All electronically recorded and easily checked. And especially for the external trading system, which, incidentally, remains at the Ministry of Rural Development and is responsible for the issue of trace is not a Greek system, it is a European payment system. We're listening to both Cretans here. Some say you're having a hard time traces, others say no, you don't find it difficult. Anyone who wants to thank God has twenty Members of Parliament can go there and ask for a change of regulations. Prozonics have an important role in the new bill. They are in the special monitoring committee, they may participate in the Panhellenic Platform of adoptions, cooperate with the municipalities, they may be financed subject to transparency. For 3,000 euros and more than a year's grant mandatory in “DENMARK”, it is a 2014 law. In order to solve another misunderstanding, because I have heard Mr Hetas say so too, if an animal is re-entered in the natural environment, the owner immediately changes and the municipality returns. So philosophical doesn't have any responsibility for what happens. Two words for the hunters. He says the removal of a hunting licence is an indirect racist behavior. When does that happen? If they have the animal unscrupulously. To me, it's unthinkable for hunters to have the animal undisturbed. It is incomprehensible to find abandoned dogs in the mountains because they are not hunted. It's very simple. In addition to sterilisation and vulnerable groups and whispering itself. The register is an important innovation. I hope that, by the end of October, the work will be auctioned and in the next six months after the contract, it will be completed. We'll get it as fast as we can as the Department of Digital Governance. It is fully accessible, it is available for everyone, it has the dog or cat's electronic health file, so if I go on vacation with my dog for example in Naxos, the veterinarian should he have to consider it having full access to history. This will be done first for pets and then for humans. Finally, read the opinion of the Citizen's Counsellor. It speaks of an important step towards a substantial reform of the institutional framework. And it's for the first time a bill that under Article 42 comes into a new innovation. It declares when and how it will be evaluated. It's too hard. It's a tough bill, but we'll make it. And I sincerely appeal to all opposition parties to revise their attitude to draft the bill, not with the government, but with the strayers who need it. We have so many things to argue about, let's not argue about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, too. Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are still discussing a key draft law of the Government of New Democracy in a Greece that really changes. The issues that are being regulated are very sensitive and concern, apart from animals, ultimately our own society. Mostly, however, another pre-election commitment by Kyriakos Mitsotakis for "no animal stray, no animal malicious" is implemented by this draft law. We in our policy for two years have left the easy rhetoric, the easy excuses, we wanted to do so and we did not have time to do so, we have heard and heard from our SYRIZA colleagues and we are going on with determination at the beginning of 'we have said and done so'. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the discussions in the committee responsible, which I have attended once again, you have made very micro-party and micro-political misery. In particular, the SYRIZA colleagues who, for the welfare of animals, did nothing essential, despite your policies on strays and pets, were officially'spread the problem under the carpet' and you had only 600,000 euros. Do you disagree with policies of EUR 55 million that will continue with funding of 15 million each year? Is everything wrong with this bill as you tell us? While you could really bring more into the case and recognize it from society. You have nothing to say about the substance, though. Your great opposition argument is the fact that we have a transfer of responsibilities from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of Interior. But that's the modern model. Producers in the first Ministry, strays and pet animals in the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. municipalities which already have significant responsibilities in this respect. With this draft law at last, we are setting rules, we are creating the framework, and we predict funding for it to work. I ask you directly: If, that is, if the Minister is now reintroducing the responsibility of the Ministry of Development again, will you vote on this draft law? You said before, the rhetoric was the question. Of course, because you have insisted firmly on the principle that you are consistently serving - I must say - 'No to everything' since you've been in the headquarters of the Officerial Response. You even imagined the unlikely conspiracy scenario that within the government they have a problem with this bill, they find it difficult to support it. Vorides hides, escapes the previous Minister, Lebanon, and let Pecha get the snake out of the hole. Is Mr. Voridis' ghost here next to us? Was it Mr. Lebanese's hologram in the Step of the House before me? And in detail, exhaustively, he explained, he gave you the experience he had of eighteen months in charge of working on this draft law. Indeed, following the debate in the committee responsible, we have seen that there have been bodies that have actually conflicted with each other rather than with the bill. In the context of the fruitful dialogue, this has become a profit. But there was conflict among them and I don't comment on it any more. You have also talked about a allegedly hasty legislation that ignored society. But are you serious about this? In a bill drawn up for two years, which brought together over twenty-eight thousand comments in consultation? In fact, many objections, which we have of course read about compulsory universal sterilization, have been taken into account and accepted. With today's legislative improvements, even the last margin for useful interventions and substantial comments and proposals from the parties has been exhausted to the final draft law that you have to vote on. What else can a government do? You have also talked about costing citizens for the mandatory animal contract, and these have been streamlined, but on the other hand, do you not know that in advanced European states, proof of an adequate income is made in order to ensure that this animal is fully cared for? I called today's legislative initiative a key one, because it is directly linked to the formation of a healthy culture for all of us against animals and promotes a basic aspect of human culture. The main pillars have been sufficiently developed by the rapporteur. It is the protection of pets, the main objective and the strengthening of the responsible acquisition and possession of animals, the establishment of an integrated regulatory framework for the management of stray animals, their drastic reduction and the adoption programme, which will contribute to this objective and even the strict observance of the basic animal welfare rules. First big cut. We are setting up a specific framework for those who own pet animals, pro-zootic organisations and municipalities. We are transferring not only obligations to the municipalities, but for the first time important resources to implement an integrated pet policy. The ARGOS programme provides for the financing of municipalities with 40 million fronts for the supply of the necessary equipment and for the creation of the refugee framework or for other legally operating shelters and an additional 15 million per year. So, then, we have a second large part of the issue of compulsory sterilisation that has been affecting many. I, too, had disagreements with the initial wording and initial aim of the draft law and we all discussed it together. We heard society, we heard citizens, we heard the owners, we heard the hunters. We exchanged views, reached an alternative for those who do not want to sterilize their animals, which should testify to DNA, genetic material. So, then, we give the opportunity and the opportunity to take care of and give second thought to those who might be more easily left to their fate a pet, but mostly to think about whether or not they are able to acquire, grow and care for an animal. The third large section is a constant request from pro-zootic organisations and it is about our adaptation to European legislation, European models for the adoption of stray dogs. We have a full computer record of breeders, putting an end to illegal trade. The adoption platform for stray animals and pet animals: the Minister said earlier that we will first have a digital health record for animals and then for citizens. That's not bad. He's gonna bust, we're gonna run faster, too. The register of offenders: these are interventions very substantial, as we believe that the moral progress of a society is judged by the way it treats animals. I conclude with the words of the American writer, known for his burning sense of humor: "If you wrap a dog, food and care, he will never bite you. Instead, he'll be faithful to you for life. After all, this is the basic difference between the dog and the man," Mark Twain said. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law, which is a draft law for the first time, so comprehensive on the issue of animal welfare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Before giving the floor to Mr Zachariadis, I will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, for some legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I take the floor only to support and very briefly to explain an amendment tabled yesterday by the Ministry of the Interior, which concerns the following issues: One is that it regulates a question of legislative authorisation for the adoption of a Presidential Decree on something that is already in place and is one of the very important reforms, which is after many years and we simply need this authorisation to do so, as the work has been done. This concerns the so-called simulation. In fact, they are the categories, branches, specialities, formal qualifications - main, additional, subsidiary - appointment or recruitment at posts of each industry and of the permanent, or in relation to private-law work. This was a presidential decree, the famous e.g. Regulation (EC) No 50/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2001 on the protection of individuals Since then, in fact, endless specialities and branches have been born, mainly through ministries. Right now this thing needs to be gathered, rationalized and adapted after twenty years of being this presidential decree into a new professional and scientific reality. That's what's regulated. A purely legal question, which could arise, is whether there was obviously legislative authorisation to extradite the previous presidential decree and why new ones are needed. The answer is that it was more limited in scope than is requested and did not include all public bodies, which are actually authorised now. Therefore, this is a more complete authorisation to proceed immediately after the adoption of the relevant Presidential Decree. It is a laborious effort, made by the services to prepare this presidential decree, because it was really an extremely demanding exercise. This is Article 1. The other articles do something quite important, and that is that they in fact harmonise it with the recently adopted by Parliament n.4808/2021. This law brought together a number of issues, incorporated into one part of the European directive on paternity leave and maternity leave. There were already provisions in the Staff Code. The code was quite more advanced than the regulations under private labour law. He had better arrangements at some points. The Staff Code must now be brought into line with the specific and proposed provisions, which are now being harmonised, and we have better provisions here, in line with the directive and the law that has already been passed and implemented in the whole. Also, a legal issue. Since the law has been passed and implemented, why really could we not have directly implemented the law both in the code of conduct and in the civil service? Because we have two conflicting provisions at the moment, so we must harmonise the provisions of the Staff Code with those already adopted. Mr President, this is what is happening here. All the provisions are in a positive direction, they all regulate the issues of paternity leave and are also taken care here, which in fact aims to strengthen its family and relationships with work, to facilitate parents. That is what we are doing with these provisions, which is why I ask that they be voted on by Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor. Immediately after Mr Zachariadis, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will speak, Mr Michael Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. In a few minutes from now, we say goodbye to the first cemetery, Giannis Theonas, the companion, the friend, the fighter, the man Giannis Theonas. We salute him with love. We'll miss him. We'll miss his narrations, his love and his companionship. Mr President, I think there is one point you should discuss in the Conference of Presidents. The bill was debated at 10:15 with the rapporteurs. The time is 14.45 and now the MPs are talking. All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, Presidents, ministers, deputies. It's about seventy Ministers in this government. They may all come to speak, but we must also respect the functioning of Parliament. Since I see you here, Mr. Voridis, and I missed you, Mr. Bogdanos is still a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group? As I do not see a parliamentary representative in the chairs, I should like to ask Members of Parliament. Is that Mr. Mitsotakis' progressive party? Mr. Lebanon's gone. I would like to ask him whether the naive 'central left' - the 'central left' in introductorys - feels proud of this partner in the machoyard. I would like to ask the liberals from the Potami, who are in the New Democracy: Do they feel proud of what Mr Bogdanos has done? Won't a colleague be found in the Chamber to disapprove it not politically, but human, child, say that this is inhuman? Will you let it take the river, fall down? Are you gonna get a phone call at the middays at night not to play it? What can I say? In fact, I regret the situation in which an area which is always a political adversary is moving in a steady step, but which, in any case, the parliamentary framework and the arc of democracy must be delimited by such behaviours. I'll come to the bill material now. This bill is replaced by a pre-existing bill, which was passed in 2012. This bill raised a great deal of interest in comments and consultation. Most of them were opposite this bill, the bodies, the opposition and seeing the process I don't see many fanatics from collision supporting it. Of course, in order to be perfectly honest and fair, the New Democracy since last weekend decided to declare itself to a fraternist party and tolerant of political cooperation with its Chief. That is what Mr Mitsotakis said, 'I am alone, I am alone, I want, I cannot agree with anyone, I am doing fine, I will manage, I am alone leading to the political margin'. However, this is not just an isolation within Parliament. That is what I am talking about - I am talking about my party, but seeing the attitude of the other groups - has taken place for a long time. Real isolation is taking place and accelerating these days, these hours, these weeks in society, and the next period will be even greater isolation. Now, should not all of this, which you have heard in the consultation have taken into account the European Convention for the Protection of Pets, which is the guide to all European legislation on the welfare of pets? Shouldn't you have taken into account the Terrestrial Animal Health Code of the World Organisation for Animal Health, which our country is obliged to apply? Shouldn't you take into account the Animal Health Law Regulation? Obviously, you should have taken them. Did you consider them? Oh, no. But you did not consider what Mr Mitsotakis said when he was the chief of the opposition officer. Mrs Poulos tabled in the Minutes what Mr Mitsotakis said about the social dialogue on pets and what you are doing today. He said you'd do it in the first semester. You had other priorities. He's on his way to the fifth semester. But here's against all the agencies. Didn't a man attend from the thousands of post-mortem employees you have in the presidency of the government and in the final state have the consultation to tell you that everyone is across the street? What are they? They woke up one morning and they want to make you an opposition? Can I ask you something, Mr. Voridis? That may also be symptomatic, but it's not personal. What's this with pets? Where does Mr. Vorides go from behind and the pet animals? In the rural development, Mr Vorides, in the rural development of pet animals, in the interior Mr Vorides, in the interior; pet animals. Tomorrow, tomorrow, in a remodeling you can go to a development ministry and take them with you. You can go to a break-in, be a vice president. Will you take the company animals to the vice president? Why so obsessed? Can't you see what's going on in the other European states? Can I tell you something? Don't you see the CCT? You're a knowledgeer of the CEDD. I know you're talking to mayors every day, you're active, you hear their complaints, most of them have a complete weakness in solving them, but you're listening. You have not asked them what they think of the bill for pet animals, how can municipalities raise this burden? In other words, of the three hundred and thirty - two municipalities in the country, the hundred and fifty do not have municipal shelters for animals. How will they respond? What about the veterinary services, which are absolutely essential? Why did you not hear the CEDEFOP proposal? Leave what SYRIZA says. SYRIZA doesn't like you. You have SYRIZA for a menu. Mr Mitsotakis, when the Greek people get him out of Prime Minister - I believe in the next elections, I am sure he will go to Master Chef to cook turkeys. By then, however, he must learn to listen. So listen to the proposal which says that there must be at least one semester so that there can be a preparation for the Ottawas. Mayors who have been elected by the flag of New Democracy say they are not SYRIZA. Listen to the proposal for separation of a pet to be carried out under very strict conditions in any case by the owner and owner of the pet to pay the municipality the full amount of the animal's hospitality until its adoption. So, is there any revolutionary thing that we're talking about? Finally, since I got to you here, I want to ask you something. If you do not answer it today, I will ask if I am going to get the answer there, I think it is crucial, not to fight, not to compare, but to where things are going with the pandemic and what preparations the Ministry of Interior, Mr Voridis, has done for the critical structures it is monitoring. So I'm asking you again and I asked you 20 days ago. Do you have a picture on each structure separately how many people are vaccinated and how many are invasive? Did you see, Mr Voridis, the graph in the Financial Times, which shows that unfortunately, our country has been in the worst position in recent months? Are you thinking of any exceptional aid measures, for example, for school cleaning staff, so that, since Mrs Keramos has not been involved in two years ago, you have not been involved in finding new rooms? You didn't make the schools on double shifts to dilute the children, improve cleaning, see if we can take some measures. Do you think of some ways to put together ideas from all parties so that in many agencies civil servants don't climb up on each other where there are no spaces? Do you intend to adopt what they apply in many countries to our non-vaccinated fellow citizens in public and their families to visit them by a doctor, a social worker to explain to them what it means to be vaccinated, what risks are there if they are vaccinated, what risks do they risk if they are not vaccinated? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u124	Because Mr Zachariadis is right to complain about the interventions of the ministers, so I will be very pitiful. Mr Zachariadis, as far as you are concerned, you have adopted the habit of doing parliamentary control through your speeches. Firstly, the information you ask is available. Ask a parliamentary question to give you too much detail. Secondly, in order to have it as a knowledge of your arguments, in particular, vaccinations in the public are quite more than an average from the general average. Therefore, as a result, what you will see is improved. Thirdly, because you raised the issue of cleanliness and you made some announcements on the subject of school cleaners, you should not be in a hurry and you should start trusting me. That's the basic thing. Why? Because when I made the framework for school cleaning, Mr. Zachariadis, you stood up and made announcements that they would be less, that they would not go to school and that they would have no wage. Now listen to the results, because you took it out in August when you did not expect to see what is going to happen with the notices. The result is 20% above the number of school cleaners, a greater number in full-time - because you were interested in income - a greater number in part-time employment than last year's figures. Because you will hurry to say 'with what money', the answer is: we gave the same money last year. Because you have given - which is not enough for what we -55 million euros, we have made EUR 87 million, which is not enough, you say. But we have created a framework that the sensitivity of the municipalities has come and supplemented the "where they do not arrive". The result for students, for parents, for the school is what I described you, and that is why I say you will be trusted, you will not be sad, trusted with the Minister - because the institutional framework has been established, which has allowed this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think the New Democracy officials have exceeded every limit now. Apart from congratulating each other all day, the ministers, the other Minister, have now heard the Minister for the Interior, asking him to be congratulated and the Vice-Population officials, to trust him, to support him, but only to repository him has not asked us. Of course, this is the general story and the general climate, which prevails in its co-chairs. For the bill, I think our rapporteur, Mrs Liakolis, has referred in detail to the reasons why the Change Movement obviously cannot support and agree to the core of the bill. There are individual provisions with which I think it has been very detailed to explain that we are in agreement. Of course, where we disagree, it has compared concrete measures and concrete actions. You will allow me to start a little bit from the central theme of the last few days, which is none other than the announcements made by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, and all they have managed to do was revive the debate on the early elections. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not whether early elections will be held. The question is when the early elections will take place. This debate is opened and the Prime Minister himself maintains it, despite the denials he has made on several occasions. How does that show? Is it an arbitrary conclusion that we in the Change Movement make? All the measures announced by Mr Mitsotakis on Saturday and Sunday have a power horizon until June or autumn 2022. The Prime Minister's planning arrives at the latest by autumn, since then the government will have to submit a budget, which will have to describe the measures that it will take to move from the deficits, which have the 2020 and 2021 budgets to the primary surpluses of 2.2% in 2023, which will reach a escalation of up to 3.7% in 2025. We don't. They have been reflected in the medium-term financial strategy, which you voted on three months ago. Now, of course, you're leaking that you're going to review it, because all of a sudden, growth rates have been launched and you're allowed to make better estimates. You are therefore putting the indicators, objectives and the stratum for growth rates very high. The Prime Minister is talking about 5.9%. Some government officials today reproduce estimates, which speak of higher growth rates, but the forecasts of the equilibrium over the next three years I would say that it does not allow us to be so optimistic. I wish the country's growth rates were so high. This is something that society and the economy need. I think that all of this is an over-optimistic prediction to achieve primary surpluses. Therefore, primary surpluses from 2023, which are likely, almost certainly, will require financial restrictive measures, which Mr Mitsotakis will obviously not unfold before the next elections, which, it appears from a position of Prime Minister, will also be combined with false documents, with false dilemmas. The dilemma is not a government of Mitsotakis or government of Tsipras - Varoufakis, as Mr Mitsotakis mentioned in his position in Thessaloniki. The dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, is the continuation of a policy that crushes small businesses and removes hopes and prospects from young people or a political proposal, which gives prospects, gives opportunity to many. This proposal is being defended by us in the Change Movement. Speaking of the Prime Minister's announcements, you will allow me to observe the great absentees of last weekend's announcements. First of all, small and medium-sized enterprises. Because the Deputy Minister spoke about the implementation of the New Democracy elections in connection with this bill, I would remind him that it was a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy that the abolition of the trade fee, which concerns over 1 million traders, professionals and businessmen, who remain a personal commitment of Mr Mitsotakis. Unfortunately, the trade fee for other professionals, which is a million, remains. The evidence of living relates to one million nine hundred thousand taxpayers, to the vast majority with excessive taxation. The election commitment of Mitsotakis is unfortunately not implemented in 2022 either. No new liquidity measure for enterprises, nor a repayable advance that is certain to be necessary, nor, of course, a liquidity facility from the banks. It is quite obvious that out of 400 million of the Development Bank's publishing fund to date, only thirty million have been disbursed because of strict criteria. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development hold continuous meetings. The result is zero. Therefore, no support measures to enterprises other than tax reductions by two units, except closures of undertakings under the Banking Code and acquisitions under the Recovery Fund. The second category is consumers. No measure to mitigate revaluations. No measure to reduce VAT on basic foodstuffs. No measure to reduce excise duty on fuel. Other foreign countries like Spain do so. In Greece it is a unknown concept. No control, ladies and gentlemen, on the market for three months now. Every week, the Ministry of Development releases a press release, Mr Voridis - I know you know the market - and it has published fourteen press releases which says what it does for the supervision and control of the market by the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, the General Secretariat for Consumers and Trade. I'll accept that until a week ago you didn't realize there was a wave of market price fluctuations. The whole society doesn't understand. We told the House hundreds of times, I'd say. The Ministry and the government said that there was no problem. But on 14 September - yesterday - the Ministry of Development says: 'We are checking the market for illegal trade. We control the market for the non-use of a mask." But there's no control. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michalis Katrinis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Ministry controls illegal trade, controls the use or non-mask and implement the measures of the pandemic, but does not do any control over whether there are any rises or phenomena of shame in the market. Does the citizen in this country wonder who will check whether there are phenomena of accuracy, shamefulness and unreasonable market appreciations, since the Ministry of Development itself does not carry out any checks? Is there a government in this country to protect consumers and citizens? You are making short-term coverage measures for energy costs, in fact with estimates, which are based on costs that are now EUR 95-100. Now the price is at 123 euros. Make estimates of declining inflation and inquiries that are not confirmed. Of course, with PPC saying that it cannot apply the discounts before October. The Prime Minister found that we have high costs of using mobile data. We've been calling it a year and a half. Instead of fighting the mobile telephony cartel, instead of putting the National Telecommunications and Postal Commission, which has not been performing its institutional role for too long and does not control the cartel, which makes Greece the most expensive market for using mobile data - 70% more expensive than the average of the euro area - it reduces the mobile telephony fee, but leaves a market uncontrolled, harmonised to the detriment of consumers. Finally, for retired people, no reduction in the contribution of solidarity. Pensioners expect payment of the retrospectives for both. Incidentally today, leaks from government instruments have come to an end to the solidarity levy. They also await the court's decision to pay retrospectives. So the Prime Minister creates a Greece in which the young people, to whom he gives tips, are on the sidelines. A Greece where workers are low-paid. A Greece which, with its own policies, will be extinguished by individual and small enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, this Greece is not worth it. A Greece that leads to the margins of two thirds of the Greeks is not Greece. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. I don't know if it's a majority or a minority. At least, as our rapporteur, Mrs Liikolis, has said, in this bill, it is clear that the vast majority of the institutions involved in the consultation, in the debate, had strong disagreements and objections. GEOTE and the CEDEFOP and the hunters and philosophers, despite Mr Levanios' ambitious effort to show us the movement of pro-zootic organisations as dispersed. This does not deny the substantiated and strong objections to a bill, in which the maximum possible consensus should be sought and not the legislative improvements of the last hour in fear of mass reaction and disagreement, not only political parties, which together show their differentiation, but also all those who participated in the consultation. Of course, a bill should testify to the fact that, in addition to the culture, culture and education of a people, it is the way that cares for pet animals and cares for stray animals and I think that despite the efforts or good intentions that may exist, this objective is not achieved. Great interest, thousands of comments in consultation, most with a negative sign. The Government, in its usual practice, proceeds with communication tactics. This bill is not drafted by the Ministry, the competent authority, which transfers it to another Ministry. The final state decides to once again to choose a decent solution, but we do not know whether it will be effective. It shifts the burden of responsibility to the municipalities, which are already facing too many problems due to a lack of staff and structures, but without an adequate financial framework, and essentially for this to be the subject of non-governmental organisations or other private organisations, which will be active in this very sensitive and neuro-algal part. The World Organisation for Animal Health recommends that the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs be the central competent authority - I do not think that this is taken into account by the Government - different and more relaxing criteria for the functioning of shelters than those existing. All existing legislation is effectively abolished, and there is a visible risk of the creation of illegal refuges and the legitimisation of mass incarceration of animals. Despite the Ministry's assurances and efforts with small legislative improvements, this risk remains. We insist that they be exercised by public bodies, such as collection, care and registration, and of course, they should directly have the supervision of these services and not just a small initial responsibility and then all of them should be assigned to individuals who are baptized as "suppliers". He's a fashion contractor for reafforestation, a contractor for the adoption of stray animals. Of course, it is an institution that could work, but it should not give incentives to professionalise this process with whatever underground routes or procedures - which really insult us - are following these situations. The pro-zootic organisations in the large majority disagree, they have done so in every way and, of course, even a few minutes ago, you did not allow them to stand before the competent courts in order to support charges of cases involving committed crimes against animals. I would like to stress the fact that the hunters too, despite the unthinkable initial plan for sterilisation, have met the reluctance and total outcry, have strong disagreements and objections, and the obligation to send genetic material, which in many hunters, who have two, three and more dogs will be a great financial cost, and of course they also have the possibility to afford new hunting dogs only through breeding their own animals. That is why they are asking for the extension of rights to two births, and I think that the Ministry's leadership should see this, and also the question of removing the hunter's license for violation, which is horizontally relevant to all residents, but is additional to the hunters, I think that the Ministry should perhaps be seen again. Here we are trying to put a framework of operation and not start from the outset with a punishing attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that animal welfare and welfare must be as calculated as human value. The care of a pet is not only a matter of political consensus, will or mood, it is a matter of education. It is not a matter of law enforcement, it is a matter of purely mentality, sensitivity and - I think - common sense. Our position as a Change Movement has always been in favour of the protection of kept pet animals and of course, in favour of an integrated framework for the management of stray animals, a position that is clear, which echoes the vast majority of people, who are particularly sensitive to pet animals, but also insults them with stray animals, which are really in God's mercy. We believe that the draft law we are debating today is not in principle in this direction. He also developed by our rapporteur, and I am sure he will specialize in dentistry. Minister, I think that in this very sensitive bill, the government should once again bring unconnected, dematerialised amendments, which resolve matters, unfairly, and I mean as government - Mr Brutsi said so - that one year you have been in consultation, but that in this Chamber you are not really counting any more. All you care about is that you do not disturb your own internal correlations, but you also cause the democratic feeling and function of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Georgios Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] You will allow me to begin by commenting briefly on an event that has seen the light of publicity today and say that I consider it to be an incomprehensible member of the Greek Parliament to make the personal data of minor foreigners public in order to undermine the extreme right reflexes of the audience. The culprit is even retreat, as he had recently targeted a hostel of unaccompanied minor refugees, making their homes public. I believe, Mr President, that the Prime Minister, as a final official responsible for the public attitude of his Members, should be lifted to the extent of the circumstances and taken up immediately. In the bill now: we are discussing a bill, which has been a strong concern for public opinion, and, of course, this is no accident at all, because in recent years, a particular sensitivity has been developed to the relevant issues, which is a twofold sensitivity. First of all, we see a blooming of pro-zootic organisations in our country, most of which are doing an important job. But we also see a gradual, slow, but there is a change of attitude in society. Animal rights are increasingly concerned with public opinion and, at the same time, interest is growing at academic level. This is also the case in the pandemic crisis, especially in this crisis, because the forced distance between humans has actually led to greater proximity of man to pets. In social isolation the company of an animal psychologically helped many people to suffer compulsory incarceration better. Therefore, life and welfare of animals have gone well in our lives, it has become an integral part of our daily lives. This development cannot go unnoticed by the legislator, since it must go hand in hand with the social norms that are emerging. Nowadays, the abandonment of an animal which, unfortunately, has become more intense with the end of the lockdown, but also the abuse and violent killing of animals are gaining increased moral apathy, which also means stricter legal sanctions. How a state treats animals is now considered an integral part of its cultural image. The state, together with local government and civil society, is therefore called upon to create an integrated grid for the coordination of the protection of pets by establishing up-to-date and transparent recording mechanisms. Let me point out to the previous n.4093/2012, I had the honour as Mayor of Athens in cooperation with the competent bodies to contribute to the preparation and implementation of a modern legal framework for the protection of stray animals, but also of dominance animals that entered into force at the beginning of 2012. The aim of the programme at the time, which laid the foundations for a more civilised treatment of stray animals, was first of all to stabilise, record and gradually reduce their numbers by sterilising, marking, recording and adopting them and, secondly, to improve their welfare conditions by ensuring veterinary care for all stray animals in the city. In addition to dogs, in 2012 the program was extended to stray cats and at the same time, we implemented a large programme for the adoption of stray animals embraced by institutions and prozootic associations, while the citizens' response was great and touching. I will not go into the specific and technical details which our special rapporteur, Mrs Liikanen, has made in the committee debate, but also today. I mention, for example, the amount of financing for the Argos programme, the conversion into the most favourable of the conditions for the authorisation of shelters, as well as the scientific doubts as to the registration of genetic material in the Athens Academy workshop. I assure you, however, that I am trying honestly and with good faith to understand what the central idea of the draft law is: The interests of the animal? The protection of public health? Strengthening the operational adequacy of the municipalities? No one can easily see it in this multi-teaching framework of provisions. I have had the opportunity to attend the meeting, at which the institutions spoke. It seemed to me that almost everyone, unprecedentedly, was against the bill and I believe that their fewer comments adopted by the Ministry are not enough to mitigate the total outcry that has risen against the bill. The government chooses the division of supervision and responsibility. I see another person responsible for animal health and veterinary public health, another person responsible for the collection and management of stray animals. And yet another contradiction arises: the Ministry of Interior is now asking the municipalities to draw up operational programmes for strays, with the tampering cracks in the retention of self-restraint resources. However, at the same time it asks them to share their competence with the organisations certified in the register, which are involved in the process of issuing documents for the implementation of the adoption, and in the collection and hosting of strays, but which do not provide for strict supervision for such organisations in the same way as the 1993 Act. In conclusion, I would like to make a more specific reference to Article 49 of the draft law on the development loans of local authorities. Once again, in a bill by the Ministry of Interior, the powers of the Economic Commission are strengthened, which we all know to be in operation by constructed majorities because of the simple proportional electoral system. In fact, at the point where the decision to accept the terms of the loan from the Deposit Fund can only be made by the Economic Commission and not by the simple or even increased majority of the municipal or regional council, as provided for in Article 176 of the Code of Municipalities and Communities, because your mayors do not have a majority on the relevant municipal councils. I just want to remind you that the relevant legislation for municipalities of the size of the Municipality of Athens for large loans, if I am not mistaken, requires an increased majority of 2/3. We have succeeded and extracted it for the development loan that we received from the European Investment Bank, but we have had to get in touch with the opposition groups and thus their good comments to join the loan and parts of this loan of course to devote to the purposes that we have been shown to us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to take part most of my speech today in the situation that we found yesterday in Northern Evia, as I had the chance and the pain - for what I experienced - to participate with Yani Varoufakis, Maria Apatzidis, Kritona Arsenis, Thomas Ahtride and other members of our party in a full-day tour in the poor areas of Northern Evia, which any man still has elementary features that define man, humanity, that is to say, would be shocked and so happened with me, Mr President. But, before that, let me talk a little bit too much about this draft law we are debating today. Minister, Mr Voridis, I have heard you say to Mr Zachariadis that we do not trust you enough and that this is the problem, that we must trust you. You know that trust is known to everyone that it is not cared for, won, and I don't say it accidentally. I say this because I have a few statements to read to you recently, Minister, which I think are somewhat inconsistent with the present situation, the rather embarrassing that we are facing at the moment. In particular, on 5-2-2021 - then you were the Minister for Rural Development, as you remember - you said: 'In any case this is a legislative initiative of the Ministry for Rural Development and Food', speaking precisely about the legislative initiative that was taken today by another Ministry, which you are in charge of, and is, of course, the Ministry of Interior. So here we find it difficult, I personally find it difficult to trust a Minister, who said six months ago that the veterinary structures under the Ministry of Rural Development must be and must be - so throughout the European Union and throughout the civilized world - responsible for everything concerning pet animals and animals which are productive, and after six months of telling me 'no, I was wrong' - I do not know how you define it - 'but now the Ministry of the Interior must be responsible'. Six months ago you thought another ministry had to be in charge. Also, then your Undersecretary had said the same thing. He said that the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs as a central competent authority should be alone in controlling the population of pet stray animals, in accordance with the Directives and the World Organisation for Animal Health. Finally, you yourself, with statements from you on 8-11-2020, have pointed out that there will be no fragmentation of the Veterinary Office in two Ministries, exactly what you as Minister are carrying out with this draft law. Also - for the confidence we have to show you this - why didn't you defend your bill? Why didn't you show up on the committees? Why did another Minister of Government come? I don't know if it's yours. I don't know if it's your decision. I don't know, a lot of data I might really miss, but it's worthy wondering, thinking second thoughts don't show up. In fact, you're not a random minister. You are an extremely competent politician, an extremely competent lawmaker. Your arguments generally make it difficult for your political opponents. You're not someone who avoids bills. Here, for some reason, you avoided the bill because Mr. Peucas came to talk to us about it. I will close this matter by telling the House and the Greek people, who may hear us, that the problem is as always the same. The problem is your constant trend, the mania - we would say - to trade everything. We are now talking about the commercialisation of the love that we all feel about pets and of course of dependence that all producers have on productive animals. So this is nonetheless a draft law, which has anything to do with the protection or the creation of a proper animal welfare regime. Not at all. It is clear, Mr President, that a draft law, which has only one purpose: the management and delimitation of the exploitation of animals, and this whole logic is based on a set-up, systemic logic, which exists in neoliberalism, but unfortunately also in wider ideological parts of societies, which are that animals are for our own use, whether to bring us joy, either to rejoice and leave the tension, either to milk or to slaughter them and eat them. All the primary vertebrates are from hundreds of thousands to a few million years before us. They didn't even have any idea that the misery would once be forced to share this in vain world with the worst representatives of the animal kingdom, to which all of us are resurrected. We must therefore see the other animals that were before us and they did not even suspect that they would have to share this world with us as co-workers, as co-existent bodies from the same, because we are not according to Darwin, rather than the last link in the evolution of these animals. We cannot take advantage of them and make them irreversibly - I mean, Minister, and Mr President - take everything from them. They have rights and their rights to live for themselves. As one folk would say, 'for their own sake'. Excuse me for the inappropriate expression. But that's the primary one. If animals are always seen as a piece of our own use, of our own shameful gain, of our own enjoyment, animals have no luck in all ages with any government. We see them differently. I'm going through the most important thing I have to say to the National Representation today. Mr President, I had the luck and misfortune of starting from my home in New Heraklion, Attica, with my bike yesterday - I mention this, because with it you have the opportunity to smell and see - and to run the most beautiful landscape perhaps in our country. I haven't been through this in years, and I didn't remember. I did not remember that as soon as you went through Chalkida and left the first settlements, this excavated beautiful natural beauty of our country begins, that there is this river, with these ravines, that there are these very high trees everywhere. He had sunshine yesterday and I did about fifty kilometers on a route, which was very close to heaven. If there was a paradise, that's how I'd imagine him personally. And suddenly, Mr President, black. Suddenly black mountains, suddenly a trace of life. Suddenly millions of wild animals, not counted, disappeared. Suddenly the temperature on the engine was 10 degrees more than the previous mountain peak, which was just a kilometer before. The disaster was there, and it was a dramatic disaster. The disaster was a total disaster. I only mention a few elements to understand what I mean 'a catastrophe'. The mayor of the region, the Mayor of the Lake village, the great head office of this region, who, at the same time, happens to be the mayor and even two regions - because that is how it is done - which we met yesterday, told us the following facts and listen to them. Let the Greek people also listen to us from outside: Five hundred and eighty - six thousand acres burned in the area. Do you understand what that means? It is considered to be a huge disaster in England because they were burned there sixty thousand acres the other day. Only us in northern Evia, in a small piece, subset of Evia, burned five hundred and eighty-six thousand acres! This forest is not a recreational forest. We're not just losing his beauty. I went like a tourist. I went as a politician, but I could have gone like a tourist. I lost my beauty. They don't lose their beauty. It's a forest of life. There they live and survive his wealth. Three hundred ten beekeepers, ladies and gentlemen, each year ten tons of honey. Do you know what that means? That they produce more than 20% of our national honey. These people will not reproduced it for many years, for twenty-five. Their damage is huge. Thousands of people stayed in this area, only three of the municipalities, unemployed. Three hundred and twenty houses were damaged. Forty are demolition and almost eighty demolitioners. Ninety businesses have been destroyed, including the flagship - you know - camping in Agia Anna, which brings thousands of people. Of the twelve thousand sheep, Mr Minister, I tell you that because at some point you had relations with them, there are about nine thousand left. The three thousand were burned. Priority hierarchy now. We were told by all the mayors and by the colonists we met, by the retinas, by the famous rice producers - retinas, by the people, to tell them by their name - the bees, by the famous beekeepers, how the actions should be prioritised. The actions are blind. You must first - firstly, proceed quickly with the flooding. Why? Because there are already tendencies of fleeing. Escape trends mean people who cannot survive and who have secondary unemployment. They are neither retinas nor beekeepers, but their business was burned or the raw materials taken from Evia were burned to operate. Ten families, told us the Mayor of Lake, have already stated their intention to leave Lake forever. In another village, which we took, they told us there were six thousand people twenty years ago, and now there are a thousand six hundred. Do you know what that means? It means extinction of the whole region, it means that as long as people don't stay and it's uninhabited it collapses. The municipality has specific proposals and proposes very specific things. Mr. Mitsotakis has announced through Mr. Benos for seven years a programme that is supposed to save the area that he gives? You know? 500 euros for each affected person. It's wrong. That's not good enough. I remind you that beekeepers and rice producers came out from 20,000 to 22,000 a year. The 500 euros fall to 7,000. Many have two children and one of them is Thessaloniki and is studying at the university. Their other child can study in Heraklion, Crete or Chania. What do you say they do with 7,000 people who had their lives regulated? Watch out. You can do it. The special aid they ask for with compensation of EUR 2.7 million per year - with EUR 750 per person - is not even from our pockets. You can do it, but you don't intend to do it. The most important thing is that there should be no delays. The mayor was screaming. The mayor was elected for the delays. Do you know why? It is not, Minister, because it has no confidence in you, such as Mr Zachariadis. It's because he sees your works and your days in relation to the Eye. My Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have made this a pre-election flag. With this and the Macedonian you took the election if not the elections. If not the elections, you took the self-reliance. What's going on all of a sudden? Two years and three months you've been ruling, Mr. Voridis. Did you have an amendment last week, which I was a government representative again, which was saying? He said that the affected ones will not pay SYRIZA, the ones who burned their homes in the eye, because you and SYRIZA have not yet achieved two years before valuing their damage. So he thinks this poor Mayor in Evia Lake: "If these people have not been able to assess after four years the damages of such a suburban cost, which is Matty, and that is why he will not pay HIS inhabitant, then we who are like a hundred "Matya" here the poor..." - the five hundred six thousand acres I told you - "... we will never be compensated." That's why they're worried about bureaucracy. The mayor told us that an artificial reafforestation must be carried out in the natural way that the "MONSANTO" of "BAYER" must never be approached because, as the world does not know, the "MONSANTO" of "BAYER", Mr President, do not have forests and plantations. Watch what MONSANTO does, what wicked she is. He's giving the first seed for free. It says "take them, give them away, take people". In three years they die, die because they are sterile, cannot be fertilized. Once they die, the "MONSANTO" comes and says that "I will sell you from now on". And the horrible one. "MONSANTO" composts dead logs and sells them. In fact, a forest is being manufactured as soon as it's burned. Mr President, I will continue to say to the dear Minister representing the entire government here about a first-sized scandal that the President of the rice producers, Vangelis Georgatzis, a Leventis man, and he with two children who are studying, revealed to me just this morning. Yesterday I was with him, today I called him on the phone. Look what you're doing. They went to Mr Skreka and said to him: 'We will be drowning within the days'. He said, "Don't worry about it, we immediately start cutting the torso to make the water streaks." They said to him: "One thing we do not want: to enter a private contractor. We only want with the state to be lazy, because we fear the contractors." Mr. Screkas has attempted to put TERNA in. Why is that? I won't talk about relationships later. He tried. Terna didn't pass. He said to them: “Don’t worry, then. There will be no TERNA coming, only the public will come." Do you know what came the other day? There was a subcontractor who said he was hired as a subcontractor by a Greek company - listen to it, because he smells this scandal - which is based in Luxembourg. Yes, Minister, Luxembourg. So this contractor was asked by people: “Why are you here and not the Ministry? Mr Skrekas promised us that only with state structures will we be dealing with, with the region, with the municipalities and with the ministries." He said to them: “Don’t worry. I'm here." People have been misled. They said: 'We do not sign contracts'. They need money, they're hungry, they're starving, but they don't sign. So, looking for you, you know what they found? Do you know what the subcontractor told them? This company, which is Greek, but has its seat in Luxembourg, do you know what it produces, Minister? Wind generators produce this company. And if Mr. Skrekas or Mr. Mitsotakis choose to give the forest and make a contractor a company that produces wind turbines, then I'm afraid what does "youth youth in the tiles"? A dog that will be sterilized free of charge by your state. That's what I'm afraid it's going on here. It's obvious what's going on. I will finish quickly, Mr President. I still have to tell you that speaking to these people, I was shocked in three ways. First of all, I was shocked by the beauty of the landscape before I got to the burnt. Then immediately the countertract was shocking by the ugliness and dreadful death silence and the death that he reigned. Finally, Mr Minister - I tell you why we are here in front of you and you will find it in front of you - I was shocked by the decision of their cells, from their hearts, from their toenails, from their fingernails, not to let you steal their forests. Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A., this famous anonymous company, which has been plucking the country for two years and two months, will not be able to eat the mountain - forest of Northern Evia. Because four hundred 50 retina families and other beekeepers, together with the local population who has showers everywhere and calls on mobilisations, has posters everywhere, will not let you give a contractor either called TERNA, Luxembourg, or Panagia, or any one of them will not let you get away from the forest. You'll find them in front of you and they'll fence you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u132	No, Mr President, I will speak a moment more, just to say an amendment. Minister, we have tabled an amendment symptomaticly for retinas and beekeepers. All right, let's take it. These fires led to destruction. The restoration time it takes leaves uncovered, fatal, all those who are before retirement, Minister. We have therefore tabled an amendment: that is to say, whoever from today would retire within seven years, whether next year or seven years from now, should be retired from today. This legislative initiative aims to protect people, but also to ensure the coherence of local societies. For God's sake, make it acceptable. Finally, Mr President, we have an amendment to the Ottawa companies. We cannot comment on the subject which saw yesterday the light of publicity from the South Aegean Region. I'm talking about the establishment of supposedly developing AMKE, a civil non-profit corporation of OTAs, which provides debit cards to your blue Golden Boys, in addition to the full wages, over 140 thousand per year and, above all, very clear indications of how you will manage the Recovery Fund in future. Ladies and gentlemen, from this step we have told you many times that the Recovery Fund is insignificant macroeconomicly for our country, but very important for the pockets of oligarchs of local and domestic and of course for the civilian staff who are paramount. This recommendation, Mr President, concludes, before the same time, cooperation with EMU and 'CISCO', two colossal multinationals. Therefore, the only reason why ASE is founded is to channel, channel, cover up, under another name, the money of the Recovery Fund to these two multinationals, to the health of the sucklers, the Greek taxpayers, what you did with the banks. Three memorials were paid to fund German and French banks which had been bankrupt for ten years. I've told you before. The European Central Bank could not finance them directly. He could supposedly rescue poor countries like us. It's us. They have necessarily been rescued, and have so far lent us 328 billion, which we have returned to the 'DEUTSCHE BANK' and the French banks. That's what you're going to do in the southern Aegean. The Greek people, at the beginning of Evia, will not leave you, Minister. He'll cancel your plans! Merra25 will be next to them, because we were elected not for posts, which we deeply despise, but for people who do not have a fate in the sun. Thank you very much and apologise for overcoming it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, too. Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must say clearly today that it is a bill that goes against nature with these sterilisations and against motherland, because no one would just want to sterilise. It's castration, anyway. I fear, however, that - I do not know on which side New Democracy has put Mr Ploiris as Minister of Health - the veterinary legislation will also be privatised, as medicine is slowly privatized. Before I go to the bill, it is challenging what is happening in the last few hours, because according to the FEK 4026 since 12 September, a session that is vaccinated - look, which is vaccinated - to get into a private medical centre or even a public hospital or a hospital, must undergo a test. And let's go undergoing rapid tests. But I would like to ask, since he is vaccinated, why should he also be subjected to tests? Haven't we been vaccinated "to get our lives back" said by the Prime Minister? I have here the certificate of a friend, born by his wife the fifth child, and while he has both doses of 31 May and 22 June in Serres with her 'PFIZER' vaccine - here is the certificate for those who question it - to let him in the hospital, his private clinic forced him to pay 65 euros, please, for a molecular test rather than a rapid test. So this man paid, though he was vaccinated. Here's the papers. Therefore, the vaccine and it transmits and sticks to experimental stage, because it is neither meningitis nor diphtheria nor polio nor polio. I'll see you around. Man says, why did they make me get vaccinated, to pay a molecular test? Come on, my wife, who was giving birth to the fifth child, hadn't been vaccinated. I, two to three months ago, made Serres the vaccine 'PFIZER'. Do I pay the 65 euros for a molecular test? That's the last FEC. To see that the vaccinated ones can't get in. It's the hospitals. If you see the situation at Drama's and Serre's Hospital, it's comico-tragic. More than a hundred people are afraid to do the vaccine there. They're leaving doctors, nurses, getting on the sidelines. The mobility law does not apply, Mr Voridis, and of course it is without one and is threatened. I'll see you around. Let's go for the sterilizations. Don't you see the last inquiries at all? Haven't you seen the sterilization investigation from Becker? In the study at the University of Pennsylvania and Sydney, in nine thousand nine hundred thirty - eight dogs, six thousand five hundred forty - six were sterile and three thousand three hundred ninety - two were untreated. It's the most reliable survey worldwide. Do you know what he says about sterilisations? Read the studies. He says the dog becomes aggressive and bruising and changes all its character because it has no pheromones, where the odors are. It is the most reliable study where opinions are divided and it produces negative things about sterilisation. So, then, the world needs to know and these investigations where the dominant is going to sterilize. Places where clean stripes will be lost. We also see reliable research from large universities. It's overthrowing Sydney where the last study is, please. In other words, a farmer who has a dog that has a shepherd or a shepherd or a shepherd - who is not just a pet dog, is a partner, but the ministry does not separate these dogs as partners, puts them as pet dogs - who does not want to sterilize it because he is the guardian of his wolves, if he has four spoon dogs he will pay a thousand. Because the veterinarian who will take over 10 euros slowly doesn't go that far for a mantle or a resident. They'll gather five, ten, fifteen, and then it'll go. Villages and shipping costs. I want to ask, too. You put the genetic material with huge operational expenses at the University of Athens. Excuse me, isn't there a Veterinary University in Karditsa and Thessaloniki? Why focus in Athens on a university that has nothing to do with veterinary science? Why not do what Professor Tonstis says in order to make use of the department and to give praise to a department of veterinary justice, so that they can decide as experts if they specialize in a postgraduate sector if the animal has been abused? Why do we not invest in the veterinary field in this department where biologists and genetic material will be trained to obtain experience? So we have to tell the grandma who has dogs or dogs or cats in the village if he doesn't want to sterilize them, because he will go against nature, he has to pay, who can reach the grand. Here's no electricity to pay - the collector's calling - and he's gonna pay 150 euros? And now listen: We need to capture reality to hunters too. No, we don't close their eyes. It's a reality. Once they want the hunters to get cleaned up, not to be fooled, they do one - we'd say blood rearing, whether they're ghetto, it's a ferry, or anything. How will DNA be reliable when we don't know the father, a hunter and rightly wonders, since she might have gone with her sister? If someone abandons a puppy, they will be punished by a very strict law, which is good for the rigour of the law, but it distinguishes them from the rest of the citizens. If a hunter abandons a puppy, he loses his hunter's license. It'll be up to two years if he abuses and abandons it. In case of non-sterilisation it also has two years of hunting removal. But you can tell the dogs. So the hounds are partners, they're not pet animals. The law can't make exceptions. Why can't a hunting dog, gentlemen, only have one birth in life? That's what the hunter says, and he's right. Just one birth? Listen, I found a dog in 2012, my Manti, which is a pure-bred coconut ancient Greek. I don't want to sterilize her because we're looking for a groom. No matter if we haven't found it by now. But is the point that I'm going against nature? We've got clean ties, gentlemen, I'm afraid we're gonna lose them. And that's not just about dogs, because mostly about dogs we're talking about today. There is a wide range of animals to protect them. You have a collector. If you want to have rule of law, you deprived them of the hunting season because of COVID, give them the money back from the "green" fund, from the OGA, from the public. It's the Hunting Federation. The Treasury is in general benefit of the ecology, the protection of fauna and flora. Why don't you return the money to them? You only beat the hunters in this piece and everyone else. The point is, however, that sterilisation, according to the studies, puts us in a lot of trouble. What about the shelters now? NGO again? Some dubious quality organisations, which we do not know from where they are, will be managed and supplied with private veterinarians, even with sterilisations? The truth is, the municipalities were pulling a butt, we were talking about lovers. But what did they do? They gave some municipal seats to have organized sanitations and satellites, the other municipalities - as it was in my prefecture, the Serres Prefecture - left them without an organised sanitation and without money. So if there is to be a well-being in the space, you must see the subject and scientifically and you cannot just stand by and say'sterilisation in the dominant', because here clearly there are two aspects: first, there will be, to say it simply, a private sector and, second, to get rid of and to do our work out of the dominances. Once a great philosopher from Saint Mauritius, Malcolm, had said that man's expression is inconsistent with his word, which is why animals cannot understand us. So he wants a lot of attention. And one more thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u135	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're saying the animals shouldn't be in sight. With you. The worst animal in the zoo is the one who pays the ticket, some say. However, now in Articles 25, 35 and 40 you are generally talking about animals. I want to ask something, because they asked me as a question, Minister. It's done in a church committee, in a sanctuary of a feast, and the lotus is a living lamb. The lamb is not there to suffer the animal, no. The other has the right to go to the fold, to the fold, and to take the lamb alive, so that he too has it in his home as a pet. Why are you banning this? So there are some aspects I want you to see carefully. We cannot level it all in general. But I repeat that the issue of sterilisation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u137	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up. You've been in ten minutes. It's at the expense of your colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for the time you have given me. It's a big deal, and we could say more. So sterilisation is the worst thing for a living, living, emotional creature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. Mrs Panagiota (Nonis) has the floor from New Democracy and immediately the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonis. Here, Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today has waited for years for all those who love animals. I am delighted to see that there are many of them, since comments in the public consultation on the provisions of the bill exceeded twenty-eight thousand. How many people are involved in this bill, after all, are coming to confirm the statistics on which almost one in two households in Greece have at least one pet animal. For us, then, who have a pet as an equal member of our family, but also for every civilised human, I think it goes without saying that pet animals deserve our love, care and our protection. No animal should be stray and no animal can be abused at all. This is exactly what comes to ensure the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior through which a further election commitment by the Prime Minister is made. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to change completely the philosophy of managing and dealing with pet animals, whether they are stray or they are more lucky and have a home. The main objective of the bill is the creation of an integrated programme for the management of stray animals, which will lead to a reduction in their population. This is necessary because, unfortunately, our country has one of the largest numbers of stray pet animals both in urban tissue and in the region. In order to achieve the reduction of strays, we will follow a new, efficient system for the adoption and implementation of sterilisation throughout their population. In particular, with the Legislation on the welfare of pet animals, municipalities are required for the first time to have a full operational plan for the management of stray pets. This includes the provision of veterinary care, participation in the adoption platform and the creation of an incentive framework for philosophical life. At the same time, they are obliged to operate or be enclosed with a legal shelter to accommodate pet animals there. Municipalities are still responsible for recording, marking and sterilising all stray animals within their limits, which should set clear targets. The question that arises as to what resources all these municipalities will do. It is through the new "ARGOS" programme where municipalities will be financed for the implementation of their operational programmes, namely for the supply of the necessary equipment, for the costs of marking and sterilising strayers, for the creation of shelters, vetches and others. Another question, of course, is "And how can we be sure that municipalities will be consistent with their obligations for pets?" A safety net for the implementation of these obligations by the municipalities is the introduction of performance indicators for each individual municipality, which will be publicly posted. Thus, there will be the necessary accountability for the effectiveness of the programme and for the management of public money. Finally, there is the possibility for the Ministry of Interior to impose serious penalties on those municipalities that do not implement effective management of pet animals. For me, it is a self-evident obligation for any guardian of a dominated animal to ensure that he is marked and sterilized. Municipalities will now also be able to stimulate sterilisation, such as the provision of voucher for sterilisation in vulnerable social groups. However, anyone who does not want to sterilise his pet may send a sample of genetic material, as we have said, to the D.N.A.D.D.D. which will be kept at the Institute for Medical Research of the Athens Academy. So it is ensured that even if an unmarked pet is abandoned, it will be easy to find its generator and its owner, who will, of course, have all the administrative and criminal sanctions envisaged. The pet is not a game or a lifeless gift that can be abandoned whenever we get bored. In conclusion, I would like to refer to another major innovation in the bill, the creation of a new, full information system. This is the National Register of Pets. This includes pet record and monitoring sub-registers, philosophical unions and organisations, shelters in which all legally operated pet dog and cat shelters of the country, professional and amateur breeders and pet voluntary donation are recorded. Also, in this we find the passport repository, where the pet passports provided by the Panhellenic Veterinary Association are registered, as well as another important one - perhaps the most important one of all - sub-federal, the Panhellenic Platform for the Adoption of Pets. This platform facilitates the adoption process and a stray cat or a dog can immediately find a welcoming family who wants to take care of it and love it. The importance of the national pet register is not negligible at all, since in a very short time we will know in real time the number of kept and stray pet animals, the number of stray animals administered by each municipality, the number of animals to be adopted, and the health history of each animal. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a small animal is an act of love, but also of great responsibility. Individual responsibility is the basic principle that characterises a real philosopher, whether he has a pet or not. However, individual responsibility is not enough if there is no comprehensive state concern for pet animals. Institutional cooperation between state, local government, scientists, philosophical organisations and citizens is needed to improve the living conditions of pet animals and to protect stray animals. It will be possible through this to alleviate the phenomenon of countless animals on the roads, to prevent the unacceptable effects of abuse or killing them through severe penalties and, of course, to ensure the well-being of every pet, which presupposes its good physical condition, their stay in a comfortable, safe and appropriate accommodation, where it will not suffer from pain, fear, distress, hunger or thirst and will not suffer in any way. Animals fill our lives with joy and unselfish love. The least we can do for them is pay them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much for keeping time. Mr. Mylonakis, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, many have spoken of a democratic deficit. I will not talk about a democratic deficit, I will talk about the exploitation of democracy. In the name of democracy, it has always been, often the biggest crimes. I would like to say something to you, which Mr Claus Gregoriadis also said, namely, about the company, which you have arranged, and indeed, Minister, you need to see, because it is very much your concern. He was also in eastern Attica, he was in northern Evia. I will now speak about northern Evia because Mr Gregoriadis spoke that the restoration of the burnt areas in northern Evia was eventually given to a company based in Luxembourg. Finally, this company is the "ERREN HELLAS", which has been set up for two years and has a branch in Greece. It is indeed mostly concerned with wind parks of photovoltaics and wind turbines. What will happen in the northern region of Evia I can tell you in a few words. You have put all over the world, all the inhabitants and especially those who could make a cut for the recovery of the floods, those who work in the forests - work - and now people can't work. Look at this, please, this thing. Mr Screkas said so, he had spoken about 'TERNA'. TERNA is not, I don't know, now we're looking for it to be a subsidiary, but how much it's interesting that the seat is in Luxembourg. Please, very much, because there will be trouble and because we have the same problem in Eastern Attica, I recommend that you do something, Minister. Listen, I want to stress one of the biggest crimes you're committing, and we'll talk about both pets and non-compliance animals. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, said on time, there are doctors, Minister, whose specialties are critical. One of these critical specialties, you know very well, it's a neurosurgeon. And because I've been through his neurosurgeon bed and I've felt his scalpel, I've made the A4, A5 restoration by titanium graft, and I know what it's like to do such surgery, I mean, I'm sorry. I'm sorry why two neurosurgeons have been suspended. And because there are doctors in here, no one's touching you? Is it possible that the neurosurgeon, who for alpha or beta speech, does not want to be vaccinated, but is careful, send him to the bench? And we're talking no about random people. Mr. Bayramidis is at Lesvos Hospital. He's the only neurosurgeon on the island. He's the man who made the first bypass brain in a public hospital, and this man you have on a bench because he says I'll sit outside of the hospital on a bench looking at my patients. Do you hear that, Mr. Brutsi? Commander of NIMITS, Sergios Gizaris General, also neurosurgeon. One on the neck and the other on the head and you leave them out. I don't know how many more with critical specialties have been suspended because your Government has decided that it should suspend these people's work. Like they're not doctors! Doctor is only the pediatrician of the so-called Special Committee of Scientists of Performance, who are not infectious. Shame on you, boomerang. Over seven thousand sanitaries are out. You'll want a neurosurgeon because people die and you won't be able to find it. Corridor! Guys twelve to seventeen years old, shit. You think you're making fun of the world? On Sunday, the NSA is getting signed. As soon as they saw that this measure for children from twelve to seventeen years of age will not be able to enter the cafeteria, they will not be able to eat together with his parents who are vaccinated in a tavern, but need to make rapid test - wants to be vaccinated and the child - you got it back in bread. Oh, my God, did Mr. Georgiadis ask yesterday morning in Papadakis what's the FEC number? It's like we don't know how the misunderstandings are going. Once something's out, turn it down, change the number and drop that. We're going to drive the world insane. Very nice. Congratulations! Congratulations on your democratic government. You have to live for days of glory, Minister, and because I know our region well, when the time comes, you will see what will happen. You rob people with ridiculous excuses. Now listen to me. The channels are coming out and they say the electricity price is increased, one, two euros will be charged. Well, who are you kidding? If it was for one, two euros, would we have a conversation? Why does people know if a month pays eighty and the other seventy or eighty-one? What are these things? The increases will be over 25% to 30%. Already, the first invoices are here. With the zeals of this summer and how the air condition was working, the current will be too high for the households, Minister. Then let me see what you're going to do with the private providers that will cut the power, and you won't be able to change the people, because you have passed a law with which they should first get rid of the old one, and so on. Two words - Mr Hetas and the President of the Greek Solution said so - about euphoria. The Greek Solution from the first moment had pointed out some things to you. Some of them, Mr Minister, have been accepted. What Mr Lebanese said I have to say was that they were serious, but secondary. What is the capital, however, and I want to understand it and the world to understand it, is this: why did you take the responsibilities from the Ministry of Development and take them to the Ministry of Interior? To give them to the municipalities? The municipalities have veterinary services? The municipalities in turn have money? They don't have any money, they don't have any services. What will the municipalities do? "Come here, philosophical." Some philosophers are indeed good, but there are also ambiguous ones. 'Come here, NGOs'. And the DNA sperm bank you're talking about will gather to Athens and obviously have a purpose. Is it possible to talk about sterilization all the time? I've been with a dog for many years. What frightens me is what you write, namely that dogs must be sterilised. Why should dogs be forced to sterilize over time? I'll ask you, Minister. We're human. The animals have a soul. I'll agree with that. Think of a government coming and saying "all parents in time will sterilize their children". You're psycho, aren't we? They've got psychos, too. You're laughing. We have a difference from animals - do you think - or are we better than animals?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u143	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Brutsi, let go of these. You're messing with everyone, you're messing with the hunting clubs, with the hunters. What's that thing going to sterilize his dog? Is it possible for hunters to sterilize their little dogs? And how's the ghetto coming out? You cannot answer that because there is no answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Mylonakis, finish. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. For these very reasons, the Greek Solution is voting against the bill and I think it would be better to get it back before you decide to cast your vote, because you will pass it without the vote of the Opposition, since the New Democracy is able to pass all the bills. Take it back, rethink it, because you have put the whole society across. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. Mr Athanasios Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy, and then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Ragussis will be given the floor. Mr Ragosi, I'm sorry I delayed you despite the order you had before. Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my contribution to today's debate comes mainly from my experience as a former mayor and from the systematic effort we made in the Halkidone municipality to make strays have a civilised treatment based on the peaceful coexistence of citizens and animals. There is no doubt that this issue is one of the most crucial in the sphere of municipal competences, because, due to the scale of the problem, a municipal authority, however governed by the spirit of animal supply, is unable to deal with it without volunteers and without a sensitive society. In this context, I would like to thank the Philozoozootic Association of Chalkida and the four hundred pro-zootic unions and groups as well as all those under adverse conditions voluntarily strive on a daily basis to care for homeless animals. Since the beginning of our 2007 we have followed a pioneering programme for the management of stray animals. So for the first time, we put in place a shelter with state-of-the-art standards that also had a fully equipped veterinary centre. At that time, we alone faced many of the problems that this draft law is about to heal today, first of all the difficulties in recruiting qualified staff and especially veterinarians. Then there was the high cost of operating all these infrastructures, shelter, veterinary medicine, and the pharmacy, which should have all the medicines necessary for the care of animals. However, it is certain that the refuge is not a solution. Soon, its facilities will be filled, exceeded, and I therefore consider the fear of incarceration expressed by some, because it is certain that the hunting house will only be sufficient for the weak, sick, sick, sick animals, in particular that a perception of animal immunisation is being established and that is wrong, because the stray ones are members of our society, they are members of our culture, our daily lives. So we quickly realised that the only solution is an extensive and generalized sterilization programme, and that is why we have worked together - apart from those involved - and with volunteer veterinarians. This is also the task of local government bodies, to encapsulate strays, to sterilize them, to inoculate them, to cure them, and at the end, except in specific cases, to reintegrate them into their natural environment. It is true that so far there have been many legislative initiatives, but none of them have had the expected results, with tragic consequences of perpetuating an image that hurts us. The stray animals are still on the streets, they are still undernourished, they are still unhappy, with their conditions of life instead of improving, dramatically worsened over time. This is because the existing legislative framework has never faced the root of evil, namely the exponential rate at which strays are reproduced to an extent that they cannot be absorbed. The result is well known. Our country today has one of the largest populations of stray and defenseless animals. Today, with this draft law which introduces a new philosophy, this vicious circle of indifference into the uncontrolled spread of strayers is finally broken by the vicious cycle of abuse and abandonment of these innocent creatures. This is achieved by tightening and redefining the framework for the rearing and marketing of pet animals, by exploiting digital technologies and information systems, but in particular by laying down rules for their reproduction. At this point I would like to ask those who oppose sterilisation or the alternative way of ensuring traceability what they are proposing. Do they propose to further multiply strayers in the streets, in other words suggest the perpetuation of this gruesome reality, or do cities propose to be turned into vast hunting houses for the permanent incarceration of animals? Because I am in the same camp as pro-zootic organisations, I would expect more courage than their representatives. Of course, despite the disagreements with the bill today, I have heard the two hundred unions that had a clear position in favour of universal sterilization. We cannot therefore say that we are in favour of optional sterilisation, because in this attitude we have now come to count one and a half million stray dogs and innumerable cats. How many thousands of puppies should they be abandoned in containers and bags to sense our responsibility? To this I believe that it responds successfully to the draft law which seeks to raise awareness of persons and societies with a view to respecting animals. It attempts to shape a different culture and pro-social education, and in this way it makes guardians responsible to realize that abandonment of animals is a deeply antisocial behaviour that does not honor our culture. In addition, the introduction of a new system of adoption cultivates conscientious behaviour among citizens. It encourages them not only to embrace animals, but also to take one more step, to adopt a stray one responsibly. It also encourages municipalities with financial tools and the ‘ARGOS’ programme to implement an integrated operational management programme with measurable objectives in order to spread a network of animal protection to local communities. To date, the means of supporting the municipalities have been poor. They fought for themselves, without any resources, without any support, but in general we would say that the state was facing strays as something far away from society. The authorities only remembered the animals one day on April 4th to photograph and celebrate on the world day for strays. However, I shall end, Mr President, this is over. Our government has placed the rights and freedoms of animals at the heart of political and legislative work, and has put them in a decisive and unequivocal manner, by turning them into a felony of the killing and torture of animals. And today we are taking another step towards animal welfare, because for us, the world day for strays is not a day of celebration, it is just a day that reminds us that it should not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ioannis Ragus, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in discussing this bill, something is actually happening in Parliament's Chamber extremely rare, not to say unprecedented, because it may not be right. We are talking about a bill which should be the celebration for Parliament, for society, for the bodies involved in managing this very truly sensitive and important issue in dealing with, management of pet animals. There is no excuse for the government, no excuse, neither for lack of knowledge, experience, nor for the intimateness of time, to have led things here that have led them. I must tell you, Mr Petsa, frankly, at a little glimpse of the legislation that is currently taking place, that it really wants great talent, so that you can achieve what you have achieved today as a government. Because the issue of pet animals is a subject which firstly brings together a very strong social sensitivity, which is constantly growing, a very rich volunteering. Hundreds of thousands of people have their own pets, they are dealing with the issue, they are hurting the issue, and many of them are only dealing with this issue, and as some colleagues have said quite rightly here about some people is a critical factor in their daily psychological well-being, their relationship with these living creatures. Secondly, there is a very clear, very clear, very rich scientific knowledge and experience on this subject and Greek and international. Thirdly, there is also an assumption made by the previous laws that have been passed on this issue, that in fact a part of the management of the matter belongs to the government, to the ministries - we will see which Ministries it must be - in Parliament, obviously, which it also legislates in the municipalities. In other words, no one denies the fact that, yes, the municipalities as a body of self-government in our country have and will have a particularly important role to play in managing and dealing with this most acute problem. So it really wants you to have succeeded with this legislative initiative in putting all the categories that I have mentioned against the legislative initiative by extension and with the government. He really wanted a great deal of effort to achieve what has been achieved. And yes, New Democracy will pay for it. And the New Democracy will pay for that, remember that, Mr Petsa and the majority colleagues. You're going to pay for this bill politically. That could be enough for us. But it's not enough. Do you know why? Some Members have also referred to their experience and experience in self-government, etc. Because the worst you've ever achieved is: We know very well that these problems are not enough to solve even if they were - which is not - a proper legal framework. It needs cooperation and long-term cooperation and genuine self-advised cooperation from all involved or must be involved in the management of this issue. So what is the worst and what you have achieved is that precisely because you have put all the actors, from self-government, pro-zoo organisations, voluntary organisations, scientists against this legislative initiative, you have destroyed any possibility of cooperation at any level to solve this problem. And that is why I listened with caution to the members of the government coming here, just like the dear Mr Lebanese who described the problem to us a moment ago. What we are saying is that the debate is not about the problem, but about the bad solution that you are going to give and which will not solve the problem, perhaps in some respects will worsen it already. It's amazing to start processing into the placement of SYRIZA's Liaison Officer - Progressive Alliance for this bill and listen to the bodies and feel that they've really said it with very tough expressions, which they don't get used to, nor are they used to such a topic. With very great documentation and analyst you have heard our views, you have heard our rapporteur, Mrs Pulou, and the committees and here, you have heard the bodies, you have heard the scientists as well. And what are you doing? You insist on the mistake. And because I am talking about a mistake and I do not want to repeat it, it has also been time, because all the arguments and all those peak points have been heard about which we consider the bill to be extremely problematic, but I am going to dwell on an institutional issue. There is an institutional issue that you either do not understand or do not want to understand, or you pretend you do not understand it. And I honestly cannot agree with the idea that the Stepping up of the Government and New Democracy officials and talking about the institutional problem that has arisen with the transfer of powers from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Interior have told us about self-government. Is that what we're talking about? Is that the problem, Mr. Pecha? Did anyone say that self-government does not have a role to play in managing this problem? Did anyone say that self-government already has responsibility for managing this problem? Is that what we're talking about? Is that the problem? That's not it. The problem is that you take the particular responsibility from the Ministry of Rural Development and take it not to self-government, but to the Ministry of Interior. This is the fundamental institutional mistake contained in this bill, not the involvement of self-government. Self-government already exercises specific powers on the matter, in so far as it exercises competence for civil protection. Aren't local authorities responsible for civil protection? They do. They do not have the powers they exercise for public works. Part of municipal projects, the municipal road network is not the responsibility of the municipalities to repair? Obviously it is. Has the authority of civil protection ever left the Ministry of Civil Protection, Climate Crisis and went to the Ministry of Interior? Answer: No. Did the Ministry of Infrastructure ever leave for public works and go to the Ministry of Interior? Answer: No. So what we are unleashing the reproach we have had from the first day we are in is not, because you come here and say self-government - and that is good for selfgovernment - has the responsibilities. I repeat or do fools or really can't think that you can't realize what the problem is that we're showing you with great intensity. And so you come here and take responsibility from the Ministry of Rural Development and take it to the Ministry of Interior. And look now, ladies and gentlemen, what is the deepest problem. You have been invoked - I recognize it, I have no reason to question it, nor the possibility - that Mr Mitsotakis has announced this by election. What argument is that? On the contrary, it is an argument in favour of all those who believe and believe that, unfortunately, talking about the inspiring of the idea of an executive state is day by day that we are talking about an insurmountable approach which does not have the beginning, the middle and the end. And it really fits this to have promised and done it over the days of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It really suits him. It's really unrealistic what's going on. Because the ultimate state, one of the questions it has to answer - and here is the answer that Kyriakos Mitsotakis gives - is what the role of the interior ministry of the country is. Here we leave the question of pets, we leave the issue of stray debate, and we move on to what is the role of the interior ministry of the country. Is it the role of the Ministry of Interior of the country to have the management services of stray animals? Yeah. For the ultimate state and what Kyriakos Mitsotakis has in his head is 'yes'. But that, I beg your pardon very much, is irresponsible, it is absolutely inadequate, it is unresponsive, it is extremely problematic. Because the answer to the question "What role do you think the interior ministry of the country should play?" Kyriakos Mitsotakis answers "to have the services for the management of strays". You have given these views. It's a gift to you. Your gift is these lightnesses of Mr. Mitsotakis. But that's what we're talking about. We are not talking about whether self-government will be involved in the management of this problem. One last thing which I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in my opinion, this is the most serious issue. When I say this, I charge it on the basis of the route that I have - like each of us - in this Parliament in the political life of the country. I am going to talk about something very serious, very critical, which is a matter of the bill, Mr Pecha. It's not about pets. A few days ago it was announced that unfortunately the country's public debt was about 236% on Gross Domestic Product. We are currently number two in the world in the worsening of this critical national indicator, in other words, how public debt goes. Japan exceeds us if I'm not mistaken. In 2011, the country's public debt was not 236% of GDP. In 2011, the public debt had reached 171%. It was 171% two years after bankruptcy had erupted. Then we had made a great effort. I will say a very great effort from the whole political spectrum of the country, with politicians in particular, with powers, with parties throughout the whole, not parties all over at least with units of politics, who have been in the fight against this acute national problem, which is public debt. And there's still some people fighting about it. A number of measures have been taken. A number of concerns have been taken over as to what the country will do with this danger, threatens it literally to destroy it and, above all, destroy the future generations. One of the measures we had taken as a country then was to put this debt brake on the municipalities. I'll say it this way to make myself understandable. Because municipalities more easily as units of the general government, had their own - in previous years, in previous decades, since 2009 - a negative contribution to the growth of government debt. And we had put these brakes on the ability of the municipalities to overflow and thus go bankrupt. And what did we do since 2011? To be the self-government of our country after "Kalikaratis" always every year that passes over and stops this phenomenon of overcompensation of the municipalities. I remind you that we had many municipalities on the verge of deadlock. Those who are older in public life will remember. They were bankrupt, they had nothing to pay for, they had nothing. Of course they were collecting the debt to the country's great public debt. What is the Mitsotakis Government doing today in 2021, ten years after and while the country's public debt has gone from 171% in 2011 to 236% of GDP today? It abolishes these debt brakes. And you bring here a provision that re-opens the way to overload the municipalities, to increase the public debt and to destroy the local and self-government units. And the Mitsotakis Government does so in 2021 with Article 49 which explicitly abolishes paragraph 1 of Article 264 of Law 3852 which provided for precisely these debt brakes. In other words, we have a country that is indebted to us, a country whose debt is exaggerated every day, and we know that we went bankrupt, and one of the reasons why we went bankrupt was the overcompensation of the municipalities, and what does the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis do in 2021? It abolishes these debt brakes. A criminal decision against the whole country. And I shall end, Mr President, by saying this. Mr. Pecha, I don't expect you to take this device back. But I sincerely expect and expect all those who support you either through our parliamentary group or in society, as a party and as a government, to react. I recognise them despite our great ideological and political differences that there are many of them who have put back on the country to face the great debt crisis it faced ten years ago. I appeal to them and call for them to personally react and demand from this irresponsible Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, the discharge and repeal of this provision with one of your next legislative initiatives. You have no right, gentlemen of the government, to go bankrupt again. You did it once in 2009. You're not allowed to do it again. You've broken all the records of the poster. Model governance Mitsotakis. By way of derogation from S.H.I.E.L.D. everywhere. And here, now, too, the abolition of the brake debts that will lead to the excessive burden on the municipalities and thus to the increase in the public debt of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. Minister Petsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Just two points. One in respect of the bill. Mr Ragonisis, it is efficiency that will judge whether we take a step forward with this bill or not. We believe that we are taking a step forward because the two aspects that we have set as the axis of our pre-election commitment believe that it is achieved. They both succeed. One is to limit the number of strays and the other is to contribute to the temptation of animal abuse. We will therefore be judged on the result. I've both developed in the committees. I shall now briefly say that with the tank of strays coming from both stray animals, we are intervening on both sides. As far as the dominance is concerned, we have rules on reproduction so that there is no possibility of expanding the stray tank there. And for strays, other than shelters, adoption, contractors, we do all the energy it needs with markings, sterilisations, etc. to limit their number. And on the subject of abuse, we have a great strand of stricter penalties and greater control. This whole framework is dynamic and will be assessed on the basis of the reports and the evaluation committee. As to what you said about public debt, we all understand that when we have a pandemic that is global, and we all decide to sacrifice part of our collective prosperity by staying at home and not working, the income falls. So GDP in this respect. And in order to be able to support households and businesses throughout the previous period we have replaced this income we have lost from abroad. The loan, you say, has entered the country at historically low interest rates, precisely because there is confidence in the government that has restored it. But you hear that you don't believe in them. I am therefore waiting for the Chief of Officerial Response on Sunday, or on Saturday, which will be at the IGC to announce a programme of austerity, redundancies, as you said, and a reduction in public debt. I also expect you to say what costs you will cut and what revenue you will increase in contrast to the programme announced by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Constantina Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement has the floor. Immediately after that, Mr. Zeishis Gikalaya from the New Democracy will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in the plenary of this House having completed the meetings on the bill you are proposing for the vote on pet animals. I am very sorry to say, Minister, that I still consider it to be completely rough, unscientific, wrong and even dangerous. This was seen both by the hearing of the bodies, which were in their overwhelming majority opposed to this bill and in this respect convergents, in addition, all of the scientific bodies, the scientific world, the pro-zonal organisations, the municipalities, but ultimately the very same society. It appeared from the comments in the consultation, Minister, that the vast majority were negative. And do you know what all this aggregation of the actors in the scientific world, the municipalities, and ultimately the same society? That there is a major political issue with this move. And honestly it makes me wonder: isn't that all of you worrying about this, all that denial? Minister, it is at least scandalous to close a remarkable institutional framework, such as the current law, n.4039/2012, the Scandalidis law, to replace it with a parody law. Zero to clay, therefore! You know, Minister, the wise Greek people say "the person sitting in his kind" and the Ministry of the Interior, to whom you now entrust the promotion of health and the protection of pet animals, with certainty, cannot be described as either an expert or an expert on this matter. This bill, which is about such a sensitive and important issue, which concerns a very serious and important part of Greek society, certainly required a genuinely broad dialogue and enlargement in this dialogue, not closed doors, Minister, not just a few convenient and relevant interlocutors who agree in advance with anything. In particular now, several specific provisions of the bill have already been said. It has - I think - made a full comment by the rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mrs Liikanouli. I will also identify and focus on specific points. Already throughout Greece there are dozens of illegal shelters of animals that do not comply with the basic hygiene and welfare standards of the host animals. I want to table a series of recent decisions in the Minutes which decides to seal them. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So imagine, Minister, what it has to do now that you are actually legalising all refugee camps, where any third-party, private or NGOs can now establish animal shelters at their disposal, without criteria, without state supervision and controls, without even prior authorisation from the Veterinary Authority. We are talking about total immunity and full state abandonment and indifference. Unique criterion based on the bill you bring us is a typical and simple record in the National Animal Register. And these "legal" now, as you baptize them, shelters will remain entangled, intact and abandoned the stray animals. Now, how they will live and what they will do there, apparently, how much you care. To be clear, of course, and it is not a solution to the problem of stray pets to hide this whole problem under the carpet, leaving them to their fate, in areas that are modern animal hellhouses. They do not suit such practices in a favoured and civilised country, in breach of European directives and regulations. The commercial exploitation of stray pets, which now - to say things as they stand - is more inconsistent with what you are bringing us. Anyone who will have the right to collect a stray animal, stating it in the National Register of Pets as his own animal in a way of obtaining a "square of strays". The draft legislation therefore does not only restrict the marketing of stray animals, but also favours the creation of a related industry on the basis of their commercial exploitation. That's what you do, that's what you allow. I would like to present you with documents of tens of sales of stray animals in Germany, coming from Greece, against an average price of EUR 350, as well as convictions for the illicit trafficking and marketing of stray animals that had recipients of legal persons who have animals in return for payment. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For the truth, however, it is a question of the fate of these quadruples, which should concern you from the outset, deafening silence, no control, no provision for where they will end up and under what conditions abroad, although the most likely is their appearance in sales ads. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute more, Mr. President. Similarly, this draft law facilitates the uncontrolled reproduction and rearing of pet animals. Where the authorisation of amateur breeders is granted by the associations and their associations, while professionals are made by a competent authority, it is reasonable that illegal professional breeders appear as amateurs who will very easily escape control. So, what are you doing with this? You have difficulty with the self-evident, that is to say you are favouring the immunity and production of new stewards, since we do not respect the rules of rearing and we will have overproduction of puppies with known health and behavioural problems. And here, then, zero in the clay, Minister. And while you are claiming - and I close with this, Mr President - you are a European party, you have included in this draft law provisions that directly violate the European Convention for the Protection of Animals and directly violate European legislation. In particular, Article 29(9) states that the Convention only applies to sheltered strays taking place abroad. Finally, tell us: Do you abolish the European Convention for the Protection of Animals for Animals that will remain in our country? A reasonable question arises and you have not given it. Also, with many provisions of this bill you are circumventing Recent Regulation 2019/2035 on the approval of pet establishments. How will this Regulation be observed when the contraaor sends uncontrolled former stray or stray pet animals abroad to third parties without arithmetical restriction? Questions we haven't answered. In conclusion, for all the above reasons and for all the reasons which our rapporteur has explained in detail in the committee debate and in plenary, we must and shall remain in our initial position, namely voting against the draft legislation under discussion. It is a bill that is unthinkable, a bill completely unscientific, but ultimately and practically not applicable, which abolishes the high and innovative basis set by Law 4039/2012 for the protection and welfare of pet animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, too. Mr. Jekalayas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u157	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make an intervention because Mrs Giannakopoulou said that she did not hear an answer. We are not abolishing the 'Traces' system. In Article 7 there are various conditions. This system is not abolished, it is becoming even more improved and more transparent. For transport for the purpose of the adoption of a stray animal abroad, there is a number of conditions. I don't understand why you see there's no prerequisite. Paragraph 3 is clear. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Jakalaya from New Democracy has the floor. Then Mrs Maria Head of the New Democracy will speak, and immediately after Mrs. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, I have two points to comment on. He mentioned and warned that we are driving the country into bankruptcy. Did she forget that she was the minister of a government that her Prime Minister in May 2010, on the basis of Kastelorizo, officially announced the bankruptcy of the country and the first Memorandum? Secondly, the left parties have for decades been cut for decentralisation, for regional consciousness, that competences when granted to local government must be accompanied by resources. And here, Mr. Parliamentary spokesman of the SYRIZA tells us that we give a lot of money to local government for caring for stray animals and dominant animals and we will go bankrupt from it. Where does that go from? We see here that there is a mismatch of words and works. Is that possible? We give a lot of responsibility to local government and we do what we have always said, while at the same time having the resources needed and that is what we are doing today. Today's bill is groundbreaking. It comes, of course, as a continuation of the implementation of our election programme, which we called the main concern: 'No animal malicious, no animal stray.' To reach today's legislation, there has been a long-term dialogue between the state, local government, scientists, philosophers and others who have spoken about the issue, so that we can come to an end and we are proud of the fact that we have the slightest detail. Because I may not have had time to analyse them, I would say that it made me a very positive impression: even a submarine of volunteer blood donation we are talking about. It's something unprecedented. Usually we know that blood donation is about humans. This will also concern animals. Also, even cemetery cemeteries of animals are predicted, which we have so far seen in England or in other countries. Minister, when we were young at school, we learned that our living we owe it to our parents, to our teachers. This bill speaks of well-being. What does euphoria mean? It's not education? Isn't it pedagogical? And so it is, when it comes to cultivating pro-zootic feelings, which is a culture in society. Because we know very well that this helps to strengthen mental health and the young and the great. The main aims of the bill are to help the kept pets - and in Greece, in particular, it is the dog and cat - to live better, but above all, as far as strays are concerned and to limit their number and not to see the daily phenomena of abuse that affect us as a culture. Because we want these five animal freedoms that the whole world is talking about to do as well in Greece. We therefore establish the National Register of Pets, which is a great innovation and all the others: an electronic book, a Foundation for Medical Research at the Athens Academy, something very important to record genetic material. This National Register of Pets has a sub-register of pets, a philosophical association sub-register, so that everyone is legal and registered, because for the first time, legally operating unions will also be entitled to funding from the municipalities to make their work much better. Refugee sub-region and shelters will be able to make either municipalities, philosophical organisations or philosophical individuals. Very important is the pan-Hellenic platform of the adoption of stray pets. All animals will be recorded there. There someone who has a dominating animal and loves it, and has to sterilize it, if he wants to, if he doesn't want to sterilize it and wants to be released from it, he can declare his desire on this platform. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Also, with the statement he will make at the "medical research" Foundation with genetic material, the abandonment phenomena of the animals will be prevented, because it will be easy to find the animal's generator and beyond the owner, who abandoned it. I would therefore like to say that we attach great importance to strengthening local government in this direction. It's the first time that that money is being given. The previous governments and SYRIZA and PASOK had not made more than 600,000 euros available. We give EUR 40 million in particular for animal shelters, their mechanisms and transport vehicles, and every year EUR 15 million will be available for scientific treatment, for medicines, for veterinary surgeons required to have the care they deserve. The municipalities - because the municipalities will play a major role - are obliged to draw up operational plans and control over them. There will be indicators of performance that will be scored. There will be incentives for consistent animal owners, with exemptions from tax obligations and municipal fees of more than 10% of them. You know very well that it was the New Democracy Government that brought about the most modern law to deal with the normal, rationale for stray animals in particular with Article 24 of Law 4745/2020. Today we are further improving what is provided for in the law so that we can make the lives of animals dominant and strayer even better. Finally, we have a record of offenders. Penalties are strict for offenders and those with a decision on justice are punished for unacceptable, abuseful behaviour against animals, at least for 10 years will not be entitled to possess animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Good evening to you and me. Mrs Maria Head of the New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, pets are or should be what their name says. To a large extent, on the one hand, they offer company and company to many people. Besides, for many owners they are more than anything else, they are members of their own families. In Greece almost one in two families cohabits with a pet animal. It is quite a large percentage, which shows his love for these living organisms. But, on the other hand, our country unfortunately has one of the largest populations of stray animals. This reality also creates the need to establish a modern, functional legislative framework that meets the needs of the times and responds to these needs of today's draft law. We come to protect them and create the best conditions for as much life as possible for them. At the same time, we are also moving towards limiting the population of stray animals through a new effective system of adoption and a new framework for rules of reproduction. Their basic freedoms must be treated with sensitivity and respect and these freedoms we want to capture as closely as possible to form the foundation of a legal protection for them. We acquire a modern and functional National Register of Pets. Pets shall acquire a digital health record through the National Pet Register. Describe in detail the obligations of the owners and provide for penalties in case of non-compliance with them. We want landlords in charge, we want civilians conscious. We are mobilizing ourselves to create such a culture. We're founding the pet DNA storage and analysis lab. This DNA will be kept at the Athens Academy's "medical research" Foundation. We thus ensure that even if a pet is abandoned it will be easy to find its generator and, by extension, its owner, who will have all the administrative and criminal sanctions envisaged, will also be found in the register. We are broadening the list of acts explicitly contained in the provision on abuse. We are introducing fines for new infringements and we are tightening the existing fines on the major cases. The ARGOS programme introduces an integrated stray management programme from each municipality. We provide the necessary resources to the municipalities in order to be able to carry out their work. We finance municipalities of EUR 40 million for the construction of shelters and the supply of the necessary equipment to carry out their obligations, such as pets care, marking and sterilising strays and other related actions. We are establishing a coherent and representative supervisory framework involving scientists, representatives of the CEDEFOP, the Citizens' Counselor and pro-zonal organisations. We improve the education and information on the protection of pet animals with programs and actions and create a site of complaints of animal abuse. With this bill, we are redesigning the philosophy of management of strays and also of kept pet animals. We are pursuing a programme that will lead to the control of their populations by means of a new effective adoption system to ensure their well-being. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been found that a large number of stray animals are derived mainly from unwanted births of domestic animals. One of the owner's obligations is to ensure that the pet is sterilised. We are using the development of science and technology to ensure the best possible traceability so that the irresponsible owner who violates the law is faced with the consequences. For the first time, we oblige the municipalities to have a complete plan for the management of stray pets, and we clarify the abuse of the animal explicitly and on a case-by-case basis, so that there are no doubts and gray zones so that we can push the abuse of animals into its roots. It is the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis who committed the animal to torture. An animal will be abused as 10 years of imprisonment and a penalty that is estimated to be up to EUR 50,000 depending on the gravity of the act. We incorporate the poisoning of the animal into felony violations. We are vigilant about penalties, but we are doing preventive and protective work. With the offenders' register, we keep people away from animals proven to be dangerous. No one will be able to be the owner of a pet animal if it has previously been convicted of abuse of a pet animal. We also establish a special procedure for any owner who wants to deliver his pet. We are thus limiting the fact that pet animals have been abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law under discussion, the government seeks to create a new philosophy, a philosophy that suits our country's culture. This bill is in the spirit of the general protection of animals, the protection of the environment and nature. One of the most important concepts in the study of human relationship with animals is the condition of the bond. The validity of the bond allowed animals from domestic animals to be regarded as members of the human family. The bond between humans and animals is a two-way useful and dynamic relationship and a pet will need care for its whole life. So I close with my initial finding that animals offer more than one company and company. That is why we are doing our election commitment today: no stray animal, no animal malicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris is called to Step by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mrs. Silina Skondra will then be prepared. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, thank you. We do have a government which has failed in all areas - I dare say - and even imported communications scientists can save it. The truth, however, and reality is not hidden. The implementation of obsessive and ideological policies continues and this is something to do with this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the days really is the opening of schools, how our schools opened up, whether or not we were taught by the pandemic and the needs proposed by the scientific community for the operation of schools. I dare say no. When at the moment, for example in Agia Varvara there is a class in the first grade with thirty - one students - for example, and it may exist elsewhere - it shows that the government may not understand where it is or, if it has understood, a question really arises. The Prime Minister was inaugurated yesterday at the new school in Damasy. It's positive. When a school opens, it is always good and we cannot recognise it. However, I would say, at the same time, that building infrastructure in our schools throughout the country is not the best, even from the consequences of the earthquakes. It is good that he opened a new school in the seismic region, regardless of the situation of seismic patients so many months from the seismic event. At the same time in West Athens and Agaleo specifically three years seismic schools, Minister, have not been repaired. And it's a matter of the Ministry of Interior, because both municipalities and self-government fall within the Ministry of Interior. So what's happened to this? I am simply saying this about the responsibilities which exist in your Ministry, and it really is one of the responsibilities for school infrastructure. But now I come to another issue, ladies and gentlemen, which I consider to be important. It is the day of democracy today that was introduced by the UN in 2007, and I ask: is it democratic how you legislate? Is the lack of consultation democratic, or any proposals that have been made, not to be taken into account? I will come and say this: it is not democratic, Minister and gentlemen of the codecision, fellow Members, of about twenty-nine comments, that the overwhelming majority oppose this draft law, that you proceed to the legislature, that they are heard in the committees and in the Chamber - and we have heard it from the rapporteur of the New Democracy - concepts of guilds and that they are attributed to the institutionalised scientific bodies, advisers of the state, such as the Geotechnical Chamber, of which I happen to be a member from decades and a representative at general meetings. That's not democratic. This is a disgrace to the professional world, a lack of democracy and a lack of discussion, codecision and the inclusion of scientific opinion. Because science plays an important role in this draft law, in the bills and in the way you legislate. And it's a bad piece of legislation. I now table the memorandum from the Agricultural Chamber dated today. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A worthwhile bill sounded here, indeed, because it's about animals. For us on the left is a worthwhile position that all living beings have their place in the ecosystem. For this reason animals are a link in the chain of this ecosystem. We reject for obvious political, moral, ecological reasons that introduce the concept that our species, homo sapiens, dominator and with full property rights to exploit on the planet, nature and other beings. It is a distorting concept that is at the core of today's global economic, ecological and not only crisis, and it is summarized that the mighty one is entitled to impose uncontrollably and unrestrictedly on the weak, to whom he is weak. The Left's attitude to the question of relations with all intelligent creatures is not just a philosopher's attitude, but a attitude of conscious citizens. We believe that a culture of coexistence of species should be cultivated and respect for animals is something that is missing. We are dealing with the animal as a problem and not with the basic culture of coexistence. Education plays an important role in this. There is therefore a need for special educational programmes and for schools. We have not come here - because I have heard it very much in the committees and today - to compete with who is more friendly than the other. A proper legislative intervention and proper legislation presupposes what I said before, the consultation process. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is not even a basis for discussion. You're talking about protecting strays in the title. You do, however, and there is no public health in the title. This part cannot be cut off by the Ministry of Rural Development, power being given to self-government which it itself does not want. And she does not want them because there are no resources, because there is no equivalent staff and of course it is not its responsibility. The Ministry of Rural Development must also be responsible for this. This issue is not solved in fragmentary terms, other responsibilities to one Ministry and other responsibilities to the other. It is, of course, an introduction to the pets and strays contractor. This also reminds the forest contractors. It's a matter of the day today. Following the catastrophic fire in northern Evia, what Mr Mitsotakis announced after forest contractors and others came to the public today that some company - interests? I do not know - which is related to wind and RES, it will take on reafforestation. We have ascensions everywhere, the deterioration of the public, the deterioration of the control mechanisms. On the other hand, there is, of course, the question of compulsory sterilisation in this bill, of DNA in the event that someone does not accept, beyond the amount that is not if we are abolishing or reducing it. Who's gonna do that particular thing? Is there a certain policy? Is there a specific staff specialist? They open up a number of issues. With the plan, then, this is the establishment of a specific "ARGOS" financial programme in another bill to fund the municipalities, because I mentioned before that the municipalities without resources and without staff are responsible for something that is not really their responsibility. Others are the responsibilities of the municipalities in relation to the strays mentioned in the 2012 Law. It is therefore a programme that needs to be clarified, as is a new programme, because in the presentation of this legislation in October 2020 by the Government of these 43,000 000 people guaranteed by the "PHILOS II" programme. These 43,000,000 are the final call budget issued on SYRIZA in June 2019 for a project titled "Manufacture, repair, maintenance, equipment for stray animals' shelters". No clear timetable is set, such as for other actions provided for in this draft law, for the adoption of the joint decision of Ministers for the Interior and Economic Affairs setting out the resources, the procedure, the criteria, the method of financing the municipalities, the transnational cooperation, the associations of municipalities for the purpose of applying this law and any other relevant issue. How will the municipalities have even begun the process of drafting a specific operational programme provided for by the law without a clear and specific timetable? You need to get back, gentlemen of the government, this draft law. Indeed, it is not a basis for discussion. And because I have been elected Member in this Chamber for ten years, Mr Minister, let me say that you are responding to almost every Member of Parliament's delegation. I'm afraid that's insecure for what you're bringing for a vote today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kafantari. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take care of the time. In the end, you'll call me handwriting. I will give the floor to Mr. Minister, Mr. Stylianos Pechas, for the legislature, and then Mrs. Skondra will speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Following the amendments which have been tabled, I would just like to put forward legislative improvements concerning the removal of the word 'Ministry of the Interior' after the words 'and other provisions' of the title and the series of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Silina Skondra has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides is being prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the new legal framework for the welfare of pets, an issue which concerns hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, since on the basis of statistics, almost one in two households in Greece have at least one animal in their homes. The Ministry of Interior, after a comprehensive public consultation, implements yet another pre-election commitment: No stray animal, no animal malicious. At the moment, unfortunately, our country records one of the largest populations of stray animals both in urban tissue and in the region. A harsh reality, a sad image that is in no way inconsistent with the human values, history and culture of our country. We are introducing an integrated framework that will radically change this situation that does not honor us. With the ARGOS programme, we are for the first time transferring the respective resources to the municipalities together with their obligations in order to carry out all their obligations. The main objective of the new framework is, on the one hand, to improve animal life and, on the other, to protect strays. The bill is structured around twelve axes and aims at institutionalised cooperation between the state - local government - scientists - philosophical organisations and citizens. A single official cooperation platform shall be established, including all kept and stray animals, those for adoption, pro-zootic unions and organisations, breeders and shelters. The welfare of all animals is guaranteed and the restriction of the population of stray animals is institutionalised through an effective adoption system and through a new breeding framework with rules. A major issue arose in public consultation of the obligation of pet owners to sterilise them in order to avoid additional births. I personally received intense reactions from pet owners, hunters, and also labour owners, who raised serious and substantiated objections to the mandatory sterilisation of their already smuggled animals. Having pet animals myself in my home and respecting all the rules, I shared their views. I have taken a public stand on this issue in order to find a balance, namely not to leave stalked animals at mercy and whoever does so, to have consequences, but not to be subjected to mandatory sterilisation of dominated animals which are kept by their owners and which are fully responsible. That is why I consider the personal verbal attacks on my social media accounts unjust and preoccupied. With regard to the positions of owners who do not wish to sterilise their dominant animal, the Government has found a solution which does not even jeopardise the basic objective, namely the uncontrolled reproduction of animals which end up strayed and abused on the streets. I welcome and thank the relevant ministers who have dealt very much with both objectives. Alternatively, therefore, in sterilisation and since the labeled animal is more than one year old, owners are obliged to send a sample of genetic material to the DNA storage and analysis laboratory held at the Athens Academy's Medical Research Foundation. This ensures that even if an unmarked pet is abandoned, it will be easy to find its generator and its owner, who will have all the administrative and criminal sanctions envisaged. In fact, at this point I would like to say that I find the improvement made, Minister, very positive in terms of not paying the paradox, or whatever, for the animals. On this point, I would like to ask that we look at the amount of the EUR 150 misdemeanour, because we must not forget, and we must bear in mind that many families, many owners have over one, two and three times such animals in their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, with the ARGOS programme, the government is making progress in financing the municipalities in order to implement all the policies envisaged. The municipalities for the first time are invited to draw up a complete operational plan with measurable quantitative targets for the management of stray animals. They will receive a total of EUR 40 million for the construction of shelters and the supply of the necessary equipment, while additional funding of EUR 15 million per annum from the central self-resources for issues related to veterinary care, marking and sterilisation of strays and related actions is provided for. Those who do not comply with their obligations will be subject to financial sanctions by the Ministry of Interior so that the application of the new law will not be left empty. A comprehensive surveillance framework is planned with the participation of representatives of the CEDEFOP, the Citizens' Co-legislator and philosophical organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the modern grid of interventions for the welfare of pets complement, finally, programmes and information actions to improve the education and information of all those involved in their protection. At the same time, municipalities can provide incentives to consistent animal owners for marking, recording and sterilisation, such as a reduction in municipal fees of up to 10%. Greece acquires National Register of Pets. Pets acquire a digital health record, secure the establishment of an amateur breeder and draw up a public register of professionals and amateur styles, putting an end to illegal trade. A pan-Hellenic platform for the adoption of stray animals is being set up, significantly facilitating their adoption process. Finally, the list of acts of animal abuse is extended, fines are introduced for new infringements and fines are tightened for major infringements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, through this bill the Government of Mr Mitsotakis ensures the well-being of stray animals and also of kept pet animals. Ethos, culture, humanity and sensitivity require us to support these regulations for the benefit of all animals living in our country. After all, "the greatness and moral progress of a nation are judged by the way it treats animals," Gandhi said, and he finds me absolutely in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. And now, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides is called to Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr. Panagis Capatos is being prepared from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Starting my intervention, I feel the need to stand by Yannis Theonas for saying goodbye a few hours ago. Yiannis Theonas was a modest and selfless fighter who consistently and firmly stood alongside the workers, the working class, stood on the side of ordinary people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with interest - an interest that starts with the subject we are discussing today - the positions and the whole process since the morning. However, I would say that I am not optimistic about the solution to the problem, judging the suggestions of both the ministers and the positions of the Members of the New Democracy. Many, thick and large, but hollow words. In principle, it is not communication. It has been demonstrated by this government on its two-year route that its only meaning is communication. The entire staff, the whole history, its entire campaign was to build expectations of substantial changes in the sensitive issue of animal welfare. All the philosophers to the Government of New Democracy - friendly, I mean purchased - its purchased communication support, all its propaganda mechanisms, all its propaganda and today's interventions by the Members of the New Democracy have tried to prove us or to show us that we have a philosopher who loves pets, and the government is a philosopher who loves pets, etc. The whole story even reached the adoption of an animal, a resident of Maximos, as it now appeared, etc. Does the Minister, Mr Lebanon, who spoke earlier: How many adoptions are legal? And I would like to ask myself: in the specific adoption made by Mr Mitsotakis, the prozootic organization from which he took the animal has the relationship with the municipality of the region? Did he have a legitimate golf leave so he could give animals for adoption? Is that even this adoption, which serves communication purposes, going to the limits of legality? "Supporting" said a New Democracy MEP earlier, the new Republic's rapporteur congratulated the Ministers. You've seen it as a hooey if you don't congratulate each other on congratulating each other. In any case, with regard to this draft law you brought, I will not keep your comments, I keep what one of the representatives said at the hearing of the Panhellenic Philozoozootic Organization: it is a bill worse than the existing institutional framework and nothing more. Just now that the entire philosophical community had believed in the good intentions - the communication campaign I was saying - had begun to hope for a different tomorrow that would change even a little the tragic Greek reality of the country that is in the worst position than any other European state. Some brief remarks will be made: Firstly, with what resources exactly are you trying to implement the responsibilities you are talking about? You give two million to the genetic storage lab. Good. Until a moment ago you did not say a word about the rest of the resources. The remaining resources are EUR 40 million for two million strays, namely EUR 20 each. We solved the problem, didn't we? Where will these resources be from? From the ‘PHILDIMO’ programme. But the devil's relationship with the livan is better than your relationship with the honor. Where are you getting the money from? You've almost abolished it. And you are talking about the programme 'APPROVAL'. Too bad for Ulysse's little dog. I don't know who thought of giving his name to this program. And you even support this programme in a financial instrument - the law of Skourlet, from the previous government, but it was intended to provide money for water, sewerage, rural roads and other local authorities. What happens after all? Where's the money going? And in any case, obviously, knowing how arithmetic one is, fifteen a year is less than forty that you give in front and so forth, but I ask what size class we are talking about? How many are the economic needs to solve the problem? Secondly, I will leave the money and refer, because it is representative of all Greece, to the Veterinary Office of the Region of Crete. How many people does the veterinary service have? Seventeen. It has seventeen people to do everything, from health checks to slaughterhouses and all the responsibilities that a veterinary service can have, plus what you put into the bill. The veterinary service is asking for staff. "We'll bring personal" the ministers answered here parade. How much personal do we need? The Veterinary Service of Crete and the Region of Crete has approved the recruitment of five more people and even before the responsibilities you give them. Why haven't these people been hired yet? Because the Ministry of Interior has not approved the recruitment of five permanent veterinarians. And we're talking about the rest of the responsibilities in a service where her people go this morning, as I was transferred, and they don't know what to do first. Is that how you're gonna implement it? Is that how you're gonna solve it? Well, because I'm talking about fat and big words and a great disappointment, unfortunately, that the problem will remain unsolved. I'm not going to stand by the question of sterilisation at all. A number of previous speakers have mentioned problems. I just want to say two things: Firstly, I do not believe that the experts have been placed in the whole debate. That's not the end of the matter. And secondly, to ask a simple question. How was this 150 euros set? Are you trying to get it back financially by putting 150 euros to control animals? And of course, on another side, it's this lame system. I repeat, it is not the question of whether it will be one ministry or the other main, it is about whether these services will be staffed and whether they will have the financial budget so that they can really solve the problems that have been encountered. To close, I think - with a word - that is what I heard at the stakeholders' hearing: this is an anti-philozoic bill. This sums up reality. And it is no coincidence that in the first article of the bill you brought, Mr Minister, there is no mention of the purpose of the bill in the face of the operative cause of straying, which is first and foremost the issue of lack of education. Care and love in pets requires ruptures, requires radical sections on all controversial subjects. The sterilisation, marking, adoption, brave financing and staffing of the critical pillars to proceed with the solutions. I am sorry that your bill, not just does not resolve, as I see it, even - in my opinion it creates new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Mr Panagis Kapatos is called to Stepma from New Democracy and I will then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone can argue in this Chamber that our behaviour towards animals, particularly strays, is a sign of our culture. Hunger, thirst, fear and abandonment are not allowed for our conscience and everyday life. That is why we owe sincere respect to the work and efforts of the pro-zootic organisations that are active throughout Greece in order to alleviate the phenomena I have described. It is, however, also our duty to provide that institutional arsenal that protects animals, to clarify the obligations of the municipalities and to offer a modern framework that we so much need as a society. An important aspect of the municipality's obligations towards stray dogs and cats arises from the draft law of the Ministry of Interior. A number of important innovations are introduced in order to achieve the necessary rationalisation of procedures in the context of holistic management by local government. After all, it is this draft law that confirms the competence of the municipalities for recording, marking and sterilising all stray animals on their limits, which must set clear targets. For the first time, municipalities are invited to draw up an operational plan for the management of stray animals. This includes the provision of veterinary care, participation in the adoption platform and the creation of an incentive framework for philosophicalism. Alongside this they are obliged to operate or be enclosed with a legal shelter to accommodate the animals there. In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the new institutional environment that we are building, however, it is necessary to guarantee its stable funding. Under the ARGOS programme, the municipalities are financed in order to implement their operational programmes, i.e. the supply of necessary equipment, the costs of labelling and sterilisation of stray animals, and the establishment of shelters and vets. As far as philosophical organisations are concerned, it is clear from the text of the bill that they cooperate with the municipalities in the context of the philosophy of the new law. At the same time, we are moving one more step further down. For the first time, philosophical organisations are allowed to encapsulate themselves and to care for stray animals as their temporary owners, shielding their role and work. At the same time, they can participate in the Panhellenic Platform of Adoption, posting ads for the adoption of stray animals. In the same logic, philosophers can benefit from the municipal sterilisation and labelling programmes of stray animals. There is a clear provision for their right to care for stray animals and to become directly contractors and then their owners, if they so wish, in the light of a simple and clear procedure. The same text establishes the possibility for municipalities to provide feed and medicines to pro-zootic associations with which they cooperate. For the first time, in fact, legally operating pro-zootic clubs can be beneficiaries of financial support from the municipality or region, just as other clubs do. At this point I think it is worth mentioning the important arrangements for municipal and non-civil shelters. The draft law we are voting on introduces strict rules of operation, which both municipal and non- municipal shelters must respect. They are shelters that operate philosophical unions, organisations and private philosophers that maintain the obligation for suitable facilities, enclosed veterinarians and staff necessary for the cleanliness and care of animals. Finally, mandatory hours of daily and weekend visits are set, so that they can be accessible to everyone, while maintaining an up-to-date website with all the necessary information on the animals hosted in shelters. I kept as my last report that animal abuse. The draft law we are discussing clarifies the definition of abuse and states detailed characteristic cases in order to avoid any doubt. In practice, it is predicted that the killing and torture of animals by deliberately causing severe physical pain or physical exhaustion, poisoning, strangulation or non-health amputation, as well as sexual abuse of an animal are serious abuses of a malicious nature other than criminal, serious administrative penalties. After all, it was the Government of New Democracy that turned the animal into a felony with Law 4745/2020. With regard to the threatened sentences, the death penalty for up to 10 years is a penalty of up to EUR 50 000, and an administrative penalty of EUR 30,000 to EUR 50,000 per animal and an incident is provided for. The bad and brutal treatment of any animal is considered abused and punished. This is a series of actions such as the drastic restriction of his normal movement, the unauthorised methods of education, voluntary injury with simple physical damage, and the abandonment. With regard to the latter, in order to limit the phenomenon, a special procedure is introduced for any owner who wants to deliver the pet, with an obligation to post an ad in the Panhellenic Platform for the Adoption of Athena Animals, in cooperation with the municipality concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my introduction as I have started, namely by linking our behaviour to stray animals and pets with our conscience and humanity. Who, after all, can disagree with the regulation that fully shields municipalities and pro-zootic organisations? Who can ignore the importance of forecasts for the establishment and operation of fenced dog parks, as well as cemeteries? It is our deep democratic responsibility to support, to vote and to implement the provisions of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamanto Manolakos is called at Step and then Mr Marcos from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u174	The basic principle of the urban state and its parties is the commercialisation of human needs in order to gain capital. And that is even about care and protection for pets. We live in every area, such as, for example, in public health that the Prime Minister in his speech at the Thessaloniki Exhibition made no mention, but only he assured that the market would not close and of course defended the PPPs, opening the way for new profitability in private capital. In fact, it was claimed that during the pandemic period it worked perfectly with private individuals when insurance funds hospitals in private clinics increased 100%. For protection measures in the workplace, in schools, in the public transport, in the appointments of doctors, nurses and others, you'll find! In education, however, schools have also opened up "flat" protocols which do not guarantee safety conditions in the pandemic to protect the health of pupils, teachers and parents. That is why they have today, this afternoon, another rally at the Pupils, parents and teachers with a central slogan "Here and now sanitation and safety measures in schools", "Neither a Teaching Time lost", "Project to address the learning problems that pandemic and teletech education have exacerbated". What does the educational world and the government demand refuse? Calls for the school classes to be diluted with fifteen members, for all gaps to be covered in teachers now, for the necessary scientific information and vaccination programme to be based on government responsibility. And the government whistles indifferently! However, the abolition of the 'Everyone' programme by the government is unacceptable. It is a programme that has been subjected to great cuts over time by all governments with its degradation and underfunding. And yet you presented it as a programme to prevent health. That's your hypocrisy. Not to mention the many kids left out of kindergarten. Here's what you're interested in in new couples. You're kidding. All of this and many more show your anti-popular policy, the commercialisation of the needs of the people's family and society as a whole. This is what you are doing with this bill on strays that you do not really care for them, but even for the acquisition of a pet you are carved in order to make a luxury. You pretend and forge that you have a pro-zonal policy. And yet with this bill you continue the same practice of protecting animal welfare. Basically - our rapporteur, George Lambroulis, has said so in detail - the bill strengthens the marketing of animals, while the possession of a pet will be allowed for those who have money to make fees and raisins. Anyone who wants a pet is forced to resort to the market and to the marketed rearing, when it is known that the main cause of abuse and animal death is the marketing of puppies that are seriously ill with degenerative diseases with fake cleaner certificates, is the profit. Because of the huge profit from large companies in the industry that do not have their head office in Greece alone, but mainly abroad, every moral suspension is suppressed. That's right. To the profit of what animal protection is! He's walking around. To be honest, we didn't expect anything better. And I say this because in 2019 the Revision of the Constitution voted against the proposal tabled by a group of SYRIZA MPs, as at the end some of them voted against it with New Democracy and abstention from the Change Movement, and ultimately the protection of animals was not included with the addition of a provision to Article 24a in the then Revision of the Constitution in 2019. Only the Communist Party of Greece, the Group of the European People's Party, voted in favour and held solidarity with the creatures that exist every day and in the most brutal manner of human violence. Of course, the urban state does not really protect them. That is why the bill does not provide for almost anything, beyond the faulty persecution of the illegal trade, which they will also leave to the unavoidable large companies since they are usually doing their business legally and will be strengthened after the vote on this bill, because the possibility of keeping one's animal without sterilising it for only one birth, paying EUR 160 for the storage of his DNA, requires universal sterilisation and actually pushing people into the pet market to cover his need. We do not accept either the one-way market, the raisin or the only birth. Once DNA can be tested to produce results, it is possible to check and locate the generator in case of stray puppies. We agree with the procedure, but not with the enormous burden it entails. It should be reduced to a minimum. Positive is that for farmers it will be free - we have heard - with the amendment you have tabled today. However, the number should be increased at the births of an unstemmed animal, if the DNA process has been observed. We ask you to follow what veterinary science defines and not an administrative logic. Finally, the philosophy and measures of the bill imply that no one seeks to have a pet because basically the pet faces it as an object, as a kind of luxury, since in order for a people's family to comply with your law you have to pay over EUR 200 for sterilisation or DNA control, ticking and passport, which we believe is unacceptable. Overall, the substance of the bill does not change the unacceptable situation, despite the many comments made by the relevant bodies that some have heard during the hearing. Eventually the municipalities will still have the power to collect, treat, sterilise, etc. without sufficient funding, without sufficient infrastructure and conditions to manage it. Indeed, what it is about financing the bill is generally and vaguely mentioned and mainly referred to joint ministerial decisions. You said for a moment, but these amounts are not enough and of course they are not written in writing. You are asking us to vote on the relevant articles in practical terms, without knowing the contents of the ministerial decisions. We're not going to be composers. Also, you may adopt the new "ARGOS" financial programme, but its sources will be the same as today, as no additional funding is clearly foreseen. In fact, the existing sources of resources are expanding. So it is certain that the situation in relation to the management of the stray problem will still be carcinogenic. And in the municipalities, what do you say? That they will have competence, but they will promote it by entrusting all these obligations to third parties, non-profit organisations, private veterinarians, other private individuals, etc. which is already provided for in the bill, leaving the field open to business activities around strays and, at the same time, burdening the public on the logic of reciprocity. Let us make it clear that we do not disagree with the action and contribution of philosophical unions in managing the stray problem. But this must be part of the public infrastructure and state planning rather than effectively conferring powers on the State to bodies of a voluntary nature. We also disagree about business activities around strays. This is a policy that is still under way by all governments. The guidelines that were in place and in the current institutional framework of Law 4039/2012 that SYRIZA also maintained, which had announced a legislative proposal of a similar nature that did not go ahead. Finally, the problem with stray animals is not solved and you do not want to solve it. Your sensitivity ends where the private investor’s profitability begins. This also applies in the case of animal welfare. As you break the needs and rights of the workers, the unemployed, the whole of the working people's family, you do the same for stray animals. At the same time, you are selling and propagandaing supposedly prologue and prologue. In the Thessaloniki International Exhibition you do the same systematically. The Prime Minister presented us with the carabinata measures for capital and fat money, with which you are begging them, as relief measures for the people. But you only have money for business groups and how NATO with the new War Manual will spread its nails as the Persian, India, the South Chinese Sea, in competition with Russia and China. That's where the budgets go, that is, the people's money. And the Government of New Democracy and the SYRIZA's previous one are stuck to the neck in these dangerous plans and you have serious responsibilities. So, to come back to this bill, it is clear. We call for concrete measures in a uniform way and for the state to ensure all necessary resources, human and economic, to form spaces, housing and operation of municipal veterinarians with clinical infrastructure for strays, examination, surgery, nursing laboratory, microbiological laboratory, permanent veterinary surgeons, permanent nurses, zoos, trainers, trainers, car collection and others, at municipality or group level, of municipalities. We also disagree with the incarceration of animals in hunting houses. You're imprisoning them. We are much more disagreeing with the already existing provision for setting up houses, shelters in forest and grassland areas outside residential areas, which creates many questions. Animals released into their surroundings to be controlled and treated by the veterinary services of the municipalities, with constant care for their condition, in order not to create herds. And by the way, I would like to say this. I've heard the State Secretary relentlessly because during the Lockdown period you gave the municipalities feed. But what were you supposed to do when the focus was closed - and you know that many of these shops were making food for strays - and also banned the movement of the world even in nearby cottages that had animals? Should you have left them fastingly in herds? Mercy! I remember just at that time we had a contact with the mayor of Salamis to get residents from Perama, Keracini, Piraeus in Salamis to take care of their animals. These could not be abandoned. As far as labelling and registration are concerned, cigarettes are concerned, we disagree with the responsibility of private veterinarians and the cost of burdening pet owners. Our view and position is that the process of electronic labelling and recording of kept pet animals should be carried out free of charge and exclusively from municipal veterinary offices. It's a prefecture that can't be out of state responsibility. These are our positions and proposals, which our rapporteur, Mr Lambroulis, has already described in more detail, not to say that we are constantly negative and have no proposals. We are negative with your anti-popular and life-threatening policy, the commercialisation of our needs to earn capital. Our different concept and ideology in relation to you once again appeared in the Revision of the Constitution in 2019, which voted in favour of the provocative tax exemptions of armaments capital. But you refused the constitutional protection of animal welfare in order not to be treated by the legislator as a commodity as objects. But you do not spend resources in such directions, you consider them wasted. We therefore vote against and ask for it to be withdrawn at the very last moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Petchas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I did not want to comment on the issues of the bill mentioned by Mrs Manolakou, simply because there was an inaccuracies I want to say this. I understand that Mrs Manolaku may not have had the full information. He said thousands of children left this year from infant and nursery stations. The EBRD Communication of 22-8-2021 expressly states that all applications related to infants, children, infantry, integrated care facilities and creative employment centres for children and persons with disabilities have been met. So kindergarten, kindergartens were completely satisfied. Some of the remaining children were only CIDs and not CIDs. And there, as you know, there is an overcapacity issue from private CDIs, an issue that needs institutional intervention, which will be exploited for the next period of time. The harmonisation budget has also increased this year to EUR 310 million from EUR 279 million last year. Indeed, private CDIs need intervention, but nursery facilities have been completely satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Konstantinos Markos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, according to Plato, in the myth of the creation of the beings, as Progora tells Socrates, Epimetheas distributed the gifts and powers to the animals as he suited each other so that they could be protected either from the attacks of one another or from the climatic conditions. At the same time, in the same myth, the issue of animal welfare is also raised. Here we have the exact opposite. And we sum up our problem of the need to protect animals from cruel human behaviour and its often devastating activity, the need to defend their basic rights, such as life, integrity, health, safety, tranquility and reproduction. They do not really have a constitutional guarantee, which would not be enough but would be a precondition, and only the common law and certain texts of super-legislative effect, such as Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union establishes a horizontal clause to promote animal welfare, and they can guide us in defining what constitutes protection. But, without spins, the crucial question: Does the provisions of your bill effectively protect pet animals? Do these rights effectively defend you, as you arrogantly publish? There have been thousands of critical comments. You are hammering for the twenty-nine thousand participations in the consultation. But you cannot delight in the fact that 80% of them were negative in your bill and said no. Reactions by scientific bodies, veterinarians and others, pro-zootic organisations, unions, representatives of self-government, who have been denounced during the consultation, show that we are again in front of a bad bill, which is of a strong collective nature. The Government chooses to reinstate the simple philosopher, punishing him for possessing the animal and treating all holders of a pet as irresponsible candidates for abandoning it. At the same time, it fails to understand the obvious, namely that love in animals and thus not abandoning them is primarily a question of education, which should be taught in the first classes in children. Mr Syrigos came to us this morning and tabled an amendment. Here's an amendment to good legislation, to special courses, to such a teaching. On the contrary - and I am opening up a parenthesis - we have been presented with an amendment calling on private workshops for universities to carry out checks on compliance with health protection measures at universities, in their livelihood. In other words, instead of enabling universities to recruit a specialist, with their own responsibility, and have that activity, it is now calling on them to make agreements with contractors. As you can see, this cannot be voted on. Despite the fact that the legislator begins with the official listing of the freedoms that are allegedly guaranteed, ultimately all that is guaranteed is the additional freedom of the friendly citizens, their economic bleeding and - all of us well to see - the complete failure of those who are legislating. For example, the illegal rearing of animals, this scourge, is not effective, such as illegal trafficking and trafficking. The new draft law does not provide for a control mechanism, it has removed the provision of doubling of fines in the event of repeated infringements, does not provide for a definitive closure of farmers in such a case. You let, ladies and gentlemen of the government, illegal professional breeders appear as amateurs, who will be legalised by the licensing procedure and gain a profit from the illegal and uncontrolled sale. Compulsory sterilization or, alternatively, the mission of genetic DNA to the storage laboratory: Your rapporteur has tried to get the glow of the Athens Academy Foundation. Yeah, but it doesn't take the same shine your legislation as the Academy has. As is clear from the article, it is serious about the right to breeding the animal, that is to say, to ensure and maintain appropriate conditions for its activity and for its breeding period, a basic condition of well-being. It has been said many times, it does not sweat your ear, to transfer responsibility from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to the Ministry of Interior. You did not understand, Minister, what our parliamentary representative said. He did not exactly tell the municipalities about their competence, said the Ministry of Interior because he takes the activity through this process. This was not based on any documentation. It is an example of poor legislation. Indeed, the consultation came out one month before the adoption of the Presidential Decree providing for this transfer and which ignores the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, the World Organisation for Animal Health, European legislation, the Geotechnical Chamber and veterinary surgeons. In addition, the subordinated and wintering local government agencies are burdening all the management burden of the new framework. You saw that local government has said that it cannot and will be accountable for civil and criminal responsibility, as the conditions for financing staff, infrastructure and equipment are not guaranteed. Eventually, are they right that some of the interests are behind it too? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, animals themselves cannot defend themselves. Their real defence - I will not be late, Mr President - depends on the sensitivity, the manner of conduct and the education of people. We must ensure - and we must - that their care is systematic and qualitative. This draft law does not ensure this, and that is why we asked you to withdraw it. In the next thirty seconds, Mr President, I shall refer to the presence of Minister Voridis, who has made a grievous rhetoric - you have not been here - that we do not trust him with regard to the issue of subscribing and the reduced number of cleaning workers in schools to deal with the pandemic. Obviously we do not trust him, because he said - rhetorically again - that he welcomes the sensitivity of the municipalities who have undertaken to fill in the gaps. What sensitivity of the municipalities? Put out of their funds. And how many municipalities did we see these? And finally, he announced a 20% increase in the budget. In other words, it justifies our protests twenty days ago, when we said that hiring cleaners for three hours a day is completely and ineffective and unsocial. The high-priced communications scientists from Esperia, the Prime Minister, as we talk about animals, gave him the find with turkey. But foreign communicationists cannot know that here in Greece we are not used to eating turkeys at Christmas. Here in Greece we are used to eating lambs in Easter and you will be led, such as these lambs, to the elections that are coming in the spring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u179	Thank you too, Mr Marcus. Mr. Lazaros Tsavdaridis is called in Vima from New Democracy and Mr.Micopoulos is being prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days after Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis' announcements from the IGC, which give protection shields and new prospects for our young people, households, workers and businesses, the New Democracy Government brings to Parliament another extremely important bill, which directly concerns one in two households in Greece and, indirectly, the entire Greek society. A piece of legislation to protect the welfare of pet animals, which comes to respond to the daily agony of every sensitive citizen, who expects better care of the state for our four-year-old friends, and who is unfortunately a daily eyewitness or self-conscious witness of many painful, even barbarians, attitudes against stray animals, in a country which unfortunately has one of the largest populations of stray animals, both in the urban fabric and in the region. But what does this bill make important? Firstly, it radically redesigns the philosophy of the management of stray animals and of kept pet animals, on the one hand, by establishing an integrated framework for the management of stray animals, which will facilitate the drastic reduction of their numbers, by means of programmes for the adoption and sterilisation which respect and fully respect animal welfare rules, on the other, by introducing a coherent framework for responsible management of kept pet animals, which will ensure their welfare and guarantee harmonious cohabitation with the environment. The primary supply to these directions is the National Register of Pets, i.e. the online database for the labelling and registration of pet animals, together with the owner's data, their guardian, in whose sub-registers a series of critical animal data will be recorded, ensuring their well-being. The second important part of the bill is that it clarifies the definition of animal abuse and further tightens the provisions concerning their abuse, following Law No.4745 of 2020, by which this government committed the torture of the animal. Thus, in addition to the great criminal sanctions for killing and torture of the animal and beyond the great financial penalties, great administrative sanctions per animal and incident are now provided for. Third important part of the bill is the fact that it confers a central role on the municipalities, which not only wins through the "ARGOS" programme with 40m euros for the collection of animals and the construction of modern refuges, but also annual funding of 15m euros for issues related to their veterinary care, but at the same time gives them the tools to support by their decisions the responsible ownership of pet animals. So we will have municipalities that can be consistent with their obligations, but without feeling that they are on the woods hanging on their genuine support from the state, so that they can respond to what is required. Fourthly, it is important that the bill establishes a coherent and representative framework of supervision, involving representatives of the CEDEFOP, the Citizens' Counselor and pro-zootic organisations, and that it strengthens philosophical culture in a series of forecasts. Most importantly, however, this draft law goes into a key section, transferring responsibility from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Interior, not only because the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for local government, which now assumes a central role and responsibility for pet animals to achieve better coordination, but also because, in this way, it symbolizes that pet animals belong to our society, that they are not consumable, are not exploitable, are not exterminated, are not unwanted. They form an integral part of our new social structure, they are a mirror of our own culture, they are a mirror of ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this bill - anti-population, in particular the Democratisation, still stands obsessively negative once again, even calling for its withdrawal and characterising the government as dangerous to humans and animals. Because for the Civic Opposition apparently the best is absolute inertia in everything, easy criticism and refusal to interpret reality with a look at the future. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, who is now allegedly being cut for animal welfare and criticising this bill, is not entitled to speak. And he is not entitled to speak because in February 2019, while he was still in the government, he managed to vote against the proposal signed by his fifty-two MPs, so that the upcoming revision of the Constitution would then include a particular reference to the protection of animals, as requested by the Pan-Hellenic Philozootic and Environmental Federation. Of the hundreds of forty-five Members then SYRIZA had the proposal of SYRIZA Members, they voted only sixty-nine Members, while seventy-six did not vote, and more tragic for the responsibility and credibility of the SYRIZA MPs was that among the seventy-six who did not finally vote for the protection of animals in the upcoming of the Constitution were - listen, listen! - and fourteen Members who had initially signed the request. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u181	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u182	In other words, to explain themselves, they did not vote for their own proposal, forcing even the friend of the SYRIZA "Preservers' Newspaper" to speak of a shipwreck of human conscience, empathy and solidarity towards animals, as well as a shipwreck that took place in a turbulent turbulence of the SYRIZA MPs. It is useful to remember that among the SYRIZA Members who voted against the proposal at that time was Mrs Kafantaris, who from this step forward, expressed her interest in animals, Mr. Parafavopoulos, President of the Revision Committee of the Constitution, who had presented the proposal of the Pan-Hellenic Philozozozomistry, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development Mr. Tyioridos, the veterinarian, in the profession and responsible for drawing up a new animal protection law, who was also responsible for the protection of animals, the Minister for Rural Development at the time Stavros Arahovitis, the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Socrates Gavroglou, the Minister for the Protection of the Citizen of Olga Gerovacili, whose Ministry was directly involved in animal abuses, the Minister for Education, Kostas Gavroglos Gavroglou, and the former Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for Food, who was presently present in this Parliament and present in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, thankfully the New Democracy Government is determined to protect the welfare of pets to the absolute extent, as every civilised society demands, and it is doing so with tangible works and not with thick words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr Tsavdaridis. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr.Ioannis Melas is prepared from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I comment on the bill under discussion, I cannot resist the temptation to comment on some issues of the current topicality, since the truth is that the debate of today's bill is also on the eve of what the Prime Minister announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. These are communications that have taken place at the time of an explosive mixture, due to serious problems in the economy, but also appalling increases in energy, raw materials and essential goods. It is a wave of dishonesty that not only threatens the citizens' purchasing power, but it also threatens the small and medium-sized business, which is forced to follow this téboo, precisely because it has great increases to deal with, plus debts, plus lack of liquidity. So, Minister, what is the reaction of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister to this nightmare about the entire Greek society? On the one hand, the government is trying to hide its responsibilities behind the justification that it is the international situation and, on the other, the Prime Minister from the International Report is making fun of the fact that, with EUR 150 million, they will be able to pay up to 50% of the increases in electricity and in essential forms of primary need, instead of a reduction in excise duty on fuel, instead of lowering prices on PPC's tariffs in order to reconcile private suppliers' prices, rather than substantially increasing the minimum wage. You'll tell me, Minister, that SYRIZA still fantasizes money! So it is lies that in Spain they are going to reduce taxes on electricity by EUR 1.5 billion and they are lying again that they are making profit cuts on providers of EUR 650 million. It is lying that - again - in Spain and France, too, they are making brave increases in the minimum wage, so as to strengthen the purchasing power of the citizens and thus withstand this wave of accuracy. Obviously, Mr Petsa, there is also a global trend, but it is Greece which is the first in the price of electricity to consumers throughout Europe. It is Greece, which since May has been the leading power in wholesale trade throughout Europe. Even today, I am thinking as a tragic irony of Mr. Hadjidakis' retardations just a year ago, in September 2020, who said, having moved forward with the rescue of PPC: "We are now moving towards the liberalisation of the electricity market to bring prices down. We'll be indifferent to the reactions. We are determined to ‘spray eggs’.’. So after saving PPC after holding up the prices and increases of these prices, since he was able to do all this and did all that, what did he say from PPC through the Prime Minister? Let me go save young people as well, let me go hold unemployment on young people. In what way? By giving data instead of work, in essence, doing more work hours, paying on the basis of wages. This is the government's reaction to what the world really lives in its everyday life. So let me come to the provisions of the bill. The first thing I would like to comment on is that, in essence, the issue of stray animals in our country is not arbitrary. It is a problem that has created and raised both the absence of serious state planning for the protection and management of pets and the lack of education and philosophical conscience. I think you will also agree, Minister, that we are not honoured by the first in the abuse of animals in Europe. But let us be honest. We have all grown up in images of animal abandonment and abuse, we have all learned to see animals killed by road vehicles, animals sick out of catering shops, animals poisoned by fleas in the neighborhoods, animals abandoned in the wilderness, because their guardians have decided that they cannot or do not want to keep them. Our legislation fortunately continues to prohibit the killing of unscrupulous pet animals. Do stray animals, however, that walk completely unprotected in the streets or stay in shelters that do not comply with rules that ensure their health and well-being and are not subject to any control, are not also condemned to death? In the summer - now, Minister - we have all seen images of animals charred by fires, many of which were stray pets. So we cannot, first of all, consider that the draft law is dealing with the issue as a whole when it is not approaching the fundamental nuclear cause of the problem at all. The government, which is not afraid to copy, especially when it comes to practices which harm the social interest, foreign models, today brings a bill that has not taken into account nor the basic guidelines of the modern animal protection framework. So you chose not to improve the existing legislative framework, but to create a new one, which is in fact a product of closed offices, without any consultation with scientific bodies, pro-zootic organisations and unions. It is not a lie that he encountered a universal denial in the Permanent Committees of the Parliament from all these people. Ignoring all scientific suggestions, therefore, we have the transport of pet services from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to the Ministry of the Interior. A service of great importance for public health and society is, in essence, transformed into a Ministry of Unauthorised Persons. In other words, it will be supervised by a Ministry which has no know-how and expertise on the subject. The fragmentation of responsibilities makes no sense at all, as it leads to the weakening of veterinary checks on pet animals. All over Europe, the responsibilities of the Central Competent Authority for the Health and Protection of Pets belong to the respective Ministries in which the central veterinary services are located. Unless, of course, this original move will serve economic interests in particular. Serious objections have also been raised by the CEDEFOP, since this draft law is testing the limits of the potential of local government. You fly the ball to the municipalities, without having the appropriate tools, with all the problems known to have staffing and material resources, and without having been sufficiently clarified or how they will be financed. You were warned of bureaucratic claws, administrative costs and excessive financial burden. Apparently, you don't listen to them either. You then say that the annual decision of the Minister of the Interior will be determined and the amount of funding that each municipality will receive for the implementation of actions under this programme, taking into account, inter alia, the performance of each municipality in terms of the implementation of the objectives of the operational programme. Obviously, the municipalities will have to be assessed, but a wicked man would say that with its prediction and intentional opacity the blue mayors may have a more favourable treatment than others. A last point in the bill to which I would like to stand is the retention of part of the amount of the CFP to which the municipalities are entitled and which you would like to impose if they were not to comply with the provisions of this regulation. But are you not telling us how the municipalities will help manage the burden that will arise? You're not talking about solutions. But you are telling us that the CAP, which barely cover the payroll of municipal officials and operating expenses, can be further reduced. You're talking about punishment on the substance, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have made us genuinely high expectations, not only to us as a Qualified Opposition and to the whole Opposition, but also to the pro-zootic organisations themselves, for this bill. With enough, as always, "communication", we should remember the pictures of the Prime Minister and you as Minister, Mr. Pecha, with cute quadrupeds and touching messages. So the bill went, came, changed. Finally, something was tabled in a much worse direction than the original draft. A set of provisions which do not contain any serious reform and, to be serious, will in no way improve the welfare of pets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. Mr.Ioannis Melas from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Mrs. Papakostas is also being prepared by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss and vote in favour or against a bill concerning respect as a society in animals. All of us in this Chamber agree that the image of the strays we see in cities today is not something that honors our own society. Animal abuse phenomena do not fit in a civilised and developed country. So, with this bill from the Ministry of the Interior, we seek firstly to ensure the welfare of all animals. How do we achieve this? With the five internationally recognised animal freedoms, which are explicitly mentioned in the bill. In particular, freedom from hunger and thirst are included, with access to food and water, properly in quantity and quality. Secondly, freedom from point of view and stress are included. We want a safe house for all the animals. Thirdly, freedom from pain and from injury and illness. We need care for all animals. Fourthly, freedom from fear and anxiety, with human behavior and as it is worthy of all animals. Fifthly, freedom of expression of normal behaviour, with proper living conditions and socialization. Restriction of the stray population now has a map. How? With the introduction of a new system of adoption, with the new framework for animal breeding under rules and with the National Register of Pets. Breeding and stray animals for adoption, philosophical unions and organisations, veterinarians, breeders, shelters will be on a single digital platform. We will know through this register the number of kept and stray pets. Each municipality will know the number of animals to be adopted and the history of their health. We'll have a booklet for animals. Pets acquire a digital health record through the National Pet Register, with responsible ownership. For the first time, this describes in detail the obligations of pet owners. Of course, with the ARGOS programme of over EUR 40 million, the role of local government in protecting and limiting strays will be crucial. Each municipality should, even in cooperation with other municipalities, establish municipal or inter-universal veterinary offices. The municipalities will also be responsible for recording, marking and sterilising all stray animals. For this purpose, the funding of the municipalities has been approved, as Minister Petsas said at the committee meeting, with EUR 40 million for the construction of shelters and the supply of the necessary equipment. There will also be additional funding of EUR 15 million per year from the Central Self-Food Resources for the actions concerned. Yeah, we need more shelters like Iliopolis. The Door Lebanon also mentioned it in his speech earlier. Yes, we want more shelters, like the one in Aegina, which belongs to my region, where an excellent effort is made by Andrea and the other children over there. And we certainly do not want the vaginas in which we often see animals being present today. We also achieve this through educational programmes and information actions in local communities and educational communities, as provided for in the bill. Minister, I would like to make a proposal for the future. We could, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, introduce a course in the form of a course, which teaches children from a very young age, respect for animals and the prosperous life they should have. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to focus on the question of sterilisation, which has had several reactions. The sterilisation of pet animals is not mandatory, according to the changes made to the bill, following the dialogue with the operators. The animal owners shall be given the opportunity to sterilise or sterilise or send their genetic material to the pet guarding laboratory. But why is this process necessary? Does he harm or protect the animals themselves? Obviously, it is a procedure in favour of animals, with a view to limiting the number of abandoned animals and thereby preventing the irresponsible and dangerous owners who choose to abandon them. They are rightly punished by the bill and, indeed, by severe penalties. Does anyone disagree with that? I imagine a reasonable man couldn't argue with that. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill and the protection of animals against abuse are particularly important. Our government with Law 4745/2020 severed penalties for the torture and killing of animals. He turned these actions into a felony, which are now being punished by imprisonment from five to ten years and a fine of EUR 25 000 to 50,000. In fact, it is worth noting that the first use of this law took place last July, when in Patras a twenty-year-old was found to be convicted of the torture and murder of a cat. In this respect, then, the strict legislative framework comes and we broaden the acts involved in the abuse of animals. We are also introducing the Library Register, which will include those who have been sentenced to animal abuse. These people will not be able to be owners or contractors of animals for at least ten years. At the same time, a digital platform is planned to be set up and run to report animal abuse incidents. You will allow me to make a reference to the amendment by the Ministry of the Interior on undeclared squares. The property owners are given the opportunity again to declare the right square to the municipalities until 31-12-2021. In fact, it is foreseen that the repayment should be made in twenty-four instalments, with a minimum of EUR 10 for natural persons and EUR 50 for legal persons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is an important intervention, both for the citizens and for the income of the municipalities, Minister, which is taking place for the second time. Two million seventy-five thousand five hundred sixty-three declarations had been submitted last time for a total area of some seventy million square metres. Municipal revenues were strengthened with more than 150,000,000 euros. It is a very good provision and I think it will help many of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing I would like to say that the animals we all have are members of our family. That's why we have to respect them and protect them. He's also the object of this bill. We're giving solutions to the problem with stray animals. We are establishing a modern and functional legislative framework for the welfare of pets. The culture of a society, moreover, is distinguished by the way in which we treat animals. Our unconscious fellow citizens, who abandon or torture animals, commit crimes to be punished. Does anyone disagree? No, I guess. However, the Opposition even in this bill, which deals with the daily lives of the citizens, chooses division and polarization, without any arguments and suggestions, for its own micro-political reasons. You are accusing us of the fact that this bill is non-proliferational, unmodern and anti-European and that we have not entered the consultation and discussion process with all the actors. But the truth is simple and clear. Before this stray animal bill, there was nothing specific about it. There was to a large extent an undetermined chaos. The state, local government, scientists, prozootic organisations and citizens have a duty to protect strays. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of this government's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Mela. Mrs Catherine Papakosta - Papura from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once a philosopher had said that our expression, our actions and our words often do not coincide, probably never, and that is why animals do not understand us. And how could we disagree with him today when, in a legislation with a deep social figure and a cultural footprint, we are faced with dissatisfaction and political dissatisfaction? By studying the philosophy of the bill all along and the changes that concern the assumption or adoption of a pet, but also the tightening up of animal abuse sentences in general, I recalled, as many of you imagine, images, complaints on the Internet and on the social media of violent killing or abuse of animals. And unfortunately, according to a survey published in NATIONOS newspaper in 2019, our country ranks among those with the highest rates of animal abuse. More specifically and, for example, on the basis of the website ‘Report Animal Abuse Greece’, eight hundred complaints were recorded in 2014, while in 2018 this number was launched to the three thousand seven hundred thirty-four. However, the number of people arrested remains disproportionate to the number of complaints. For example, in the first half of 2019 there were a thousand seven hundred ninety complaints, and only a hundred seventeen people were arrested. It can only be a sad reality and first for our country, when thousands of years before Aristotle, the naturalist and philosopher, raised animals to equal entities, with intelligence and wisdom, when Homer described a tender and powerful bond between Odysseus and the faithful dog Argos, as well as the name of the law today, we are still trying to put context and deterrent penalties for the violence or abuse suffered by us. So, with this draft law, we are trying nothing more and nothing less than a holistic step, deepening the framework for the welfare of pets, with full and clear responsibilities to the municipalities, but also to the staff, individual level, which is not only the responsibility of every citizen who has adopted or been the contractor of a pet, but also the delimitation and stricterisation of the regulatory framework for obtaining, maintaining and even abandoning a pet animal. So all the legal obligations of the owner of a pet animal, which we all have to study and take serious account of, are summarised in Article 9 of the bill, where the owner of a pet animal in the first place is obliged to sterilise it at the age of its adoption. If he fails to sterilize it by his choice, he shall send a sample of genetic DNA material and record his animal in the National Register of Pets. In addition, it is obliged to observe the welfare rules of the animal, not to abandon it and not to mistreat it in any way. All of the above obligations of the owner regarding his pet will be related to the newly established National Pet Register, a new information system, an online electronic database for the labelling and registration of pet animals and their owners. This system establishes sub-registers for the recording and monitoring of pet animals: philosophical union sub-registers and organisations, shelters, professional and amateur breeders, pet passport repository. The most important of all, the primary platform for the adoption of stray pet animals is being established and this makes it easier to adopt the adoption process, without time-consuming and safely. Moreover, in the subterrestrial category, it is also the most important thing about the voluntary donation of pet animals, thus saving life and improving the health of another animal, which may suffer from an illness or accident. In this way we will know in real time the number of dormant and stray pet animals, the number of stray animals managed by each municipality, the number of animals to be adopted and the health history of each animal, naturally exploiting the best technological knowledge and the expertise provided by the Ministry of Digital Governance. By passing now on to a major provision, which relates to the project and the even more active and responsible way of formulating an operational plan for the municipalities to reduce stray pets, I would stress the importance of the municipality's contribution through specific planning and organisation to achieve the objectives of the bill. Moreover, an extremely positive aspect of this draft law is that, through the new "ARGOS" programme, municipalities are financed to implement their operations, namely to provide the necessary equipment, such as stray vehicles, to cover the costs of marking and sterilising strays, to create shelters and vets. The resources available can therefore fill the gap in the policy of managing stray animals in the municipalities of the country. Of course, all kinds of derogations from this aim will bring about the same responsibilities. In fact, for the first time, there are indicators of performance which are publicly posted, so that there is the necessary accountability for the effectiveness of the programme and for the management of public money. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the excellent action of the prozootic groups and the struggle they are carrying out for the maximum and optimal care of pet animals and to mention that it may be possible in this bill not to conceal their role, competences and valuable contribution, but can be involved in the full-fledged adoption platform by posting ads for the adoption of stray pets. Likewise, philosophers can benefit from the municipal sterilisation and labelling programmes of pet stray animals, and explicitly provision is made for their right to care for stray animals and become directly contractors and then their owners, if they so wish, in the light of a simple, transparent and clear procedure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I consider it the highest debt of a favoured society that wants to be bound to the chariot of modern Western civilisation with the principles that govern it to be able to put a definitive end to sad images of starvated strays, victims of transiting vehicles, abused and tortured animals, because culture, values and morality are seen by the way we treat the weakest, those who have no voice, but have life and rights in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. As always, you were consistent in time. We continue with New Democracy and Mr. Andreas Patsis is called in Step and then Mr. Apostolos is prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr Patsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u190	Minister, before I begin my position, I should like to make two comments on what has been heard with regard to today's session, particularly from the Opposition. The first concerns the infamous burden of EUR 150 of the family budget on the dog's DNA issue. Those who have made this reference and are constantly invoking it - and I have heard it almost all - whether they have no animal or are lying. They should know that the man who assumes the responsibility and the obligation to have a pet in his home has a monthly cost, which varies from 70, 80 or 100 euros a month and, if, despite hope, he needs to go to a hospital for an emergency or a veterinarian, believe me that the cost is far more than taking your child to the pediatrician. So this EUR 150 claim is obviously a great lie, which should not even concern us. I, Minister, would suggest that you bring an amendment to the effect that, instead of the municipalities, you should entrust private companies with the question of the management of stray animals and shelters, and I am sure that, in a short time, a roll-call vote would have been tabled, because the government is deciding to strengthen the capital and not to deal with the state whose responsibility is the issue of stray management. There's a huge hypocrisy. If, therefore, the government has made another policy, it has strengthened the private sector and said to the private sector, I will give the possibility and responsibility by strengthening and, as I have to do with the sum of EUR 30, 40 or 50 million, we would obviously find the opposition together, but with a completely different repertoire, and we would be accused of strengthening the capital, the private companies, the large, the trains and so on. It is worth a phrase here, to close, Minister, and to continue my position: 'Whee, you!'. As a philosopher, I feel very happy that this draft law, which is being put to the vote today in plenary for the first time, is being dealt with seriously, and I could say that the question of pets and, above all, the problem with stray animals is complete. The philosophy of the bill demonstrates to the full the indicator of progress and culture of our society. That is why, Minister, you too are a personally worthy congratulating on this bill which is complete and is being put to the vote today and gives a legal framework that was really missing for a very, very serious social issue. But, Minister, no matter how complete it is, it is not enough to achieve the maximum result, which is our pursuit. Why do many of the pet owners leave them on the streets, without regard for the consequences? Are they bad people? Are they unconscious? The answer is simple: because they have neither the knowledge nor the education to understand that the existence of an animal as a member of a family is primarily a responsibility. They face it in most cases as a pleasant game and because they saw it in another house and played and cared for with it or asked for by their child, they simply buy it as a holiday present. The animal needs company, he needs a ride, care, food, a doctor. The animal gets dirty, damages, gets sick. And because only true love and philosophy can respond to this need for life and because the game suddenly becomes a problem, then without any feeling being thrown on the road to survive, if of course he had, since he had learned to live in family conditions. Love is responsibility and responsibility, much more for a company animal, which actually never grows. And that's something a piece of legislation can't cure. This requires special education and education from an early age, so that the next generation can hope to have the culture of prosperousness. Minister, in my view, and I have heard it from other colleagues with pleasure, they should be introduced from the first grade of primary school and at regular intervals of specific educational seminars on the relationship between a human and a pet animal. You may not want it home, but you can also love it, find out that it does not transmit germs, diseases, it is not dirty, but that you must not come near it or try to pet it, because you don't know its character and why it doesn't stop being an animal that can feel the danger. And if, beyond that, you love it and you want to take his responsibility for life, you must above all know your obligations, and so we will have a reduction in stray animals and animals will be healthy, happy and able to move in many places, without their presence being annoying for some. So, Minister, we will learn to love animals not for their race, but for their eyes. Apart from pet animals, however, there are also animals - and let me see the unworthy term - of work, from which many stray animals arise, particularly in the province. They're dogs guarding herds. The births that are left in the mountains or near inhabited areas are uncontrolled and are filled with village and town squares. They're big dogs, because they're spunky dogs, Minister, and you know that very well. Dirty, hungry and scared roaming around the world and can also become dangerous if they feel fearless, unintended. And I don't know if I'm wrong, but I think these animals, Mr. Minister, have no declared owner, and this raises the difficulty of how the provisions of this bill can function in this case. You know, these are movable, transferred from areas to areas, born, owners don't declare them and in this case I think there's a problem and you need to make a special strategic planning to deal with it. On the subject of refuges, now. Minister, you must be ruthless here, because we really need special care and constant control. In any case, we welcome the voluntary action of pro-zootic organisations, which really offer love to animals and to social work, but unfortunately not all cases are the same. A lot of these shelters - because I too have visited shelters, I am also a philosopher and I have taken from philosophical organizations - underestimate our culture. It's a disgrace to our culture. If, Minister, they are tormented in such terrible conditions, a thousand times to be killed or any other solution found. Therefore, the checks you exercise should be continuous, the conditions should be clear and, if there are violations, the sanctions should be non-existent. Minister, let us make sure that the issue of prosperity or volunteering is not transformed into a business as well. With these considerations, I declare that I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr Patsi, and respect for the time. Mr Evangelos Apostleou is called at Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Then we will go to the speeches via Webex and Mr Davas will be prepared from New Democracy. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know if Mr Tsavdaridis is here, because I have a brief answer. Many proposals for consultation are always put forward in constitutional revision. It emerged from the debate that it would be better to put forward a draft bill, because the procedure is constitutional - you know, Minister, how long it is - and that is how it has to be. Meanwhile, we had already submitted a draft law, which met with reactions and withdrew it, to the logic of taking corrective action. I wanted to ask Mr Tsavdaridis what the New Democracy Members were doing in the proposal that we tabled? To answer. But let's get into the bill we're talking about. Minister, the geotechnical community and the institutions that represent it together, as well as the vast majority of the friendly citizens and pro-zootic organisations are against your bill. Until yesterday, you were talking about a state of government. Now look at one particular thing that we experienced in northern Evia, what the perfect state meant! At the same time you are cutting off an entire veterinary structure from the trunk of the Central Veterinary Office of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and transporting it to the Ministry of Interior. Why is that? What and who is this choice serving? We have even had earlier assurances from your predecessors, Minister, with whom they committed to this House that such a transfer of powers will not take place. Unfortunately, Minister, you are trying to bring about a firm solution, such as the fact that animal health, public health, pet traceability and welfare are dealt with by presidential decrees. You want to destroy this and at the same time something that by its nature, over time, is the object of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to abolish it. At the same time, your bill does not take into account existing Union and national legislation, in particular the provisions relating to the treatment and prevention of zoonoses such as rabies, echinoococcosis, detailed sprinkling and others, while avoiding the occurrence of food crises, even unlike countries such as England, for example, which, by privatising official veterinary controls, had huge problems with transmissible spongiform encephalopathy and other food scandals. It is therefore recommended that the immediate withdrawal of this piece and harmful bill, which may jeopardise even public health. It is necessary in transparency and with the contribution of experts to draft a new bill based on the basic legislation of the Council of Europe and of the European Union, but also on the common scientific logic, which requires that secretaries and pharmacists do not handle such sensitive branches, but health scientists who, of course, are veterinarians. If, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you sincerely wish to defend the health and well-being of pets and public health, I repeat, it is a one-way road for you to do something similar to what we have done, by withdrawing this bill. Furthermore, it is a typical example of the dubiousness of drafting the bill, the total ignorance of European Union Regulation 2016/429 on animal health, which is being implemented in all the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 April 2021 this regulation is being implemented in all the countries of the European Union. Of course you are completely unaware of this regulation. Both the definitions for pets and their monitoring are in a completely different direction than those set out in the regulation. You also overlook the fact that in Greece the application of the provisions of the regulation should be implemented by the Veterinary Office of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food as a central competent authority. The government claims that the aim of the bill is to improve the living conditions of pet animals. You hide, gentlemen, your true goal, which is: Firstly, the discharge of the hereditary mayors and anti-democrats from the responsibility of supervision. Secondly, the facilitation of mass trade in stray animals and kept animals, by supposedly philosophical unions based in countries of the European Union and the solution of the problem of stray animals by handing their luck to NGOs without effective public control. Thirdly, the facilitation of uncontrolled breeding and rearing of pet animals by alleged amateurs, who will be granted a licence from a paid three-member private committee. And, fourthly, preventing veterinary and other controls on the traceability, health and welfare of pet animals. We don't talk about that. This is a common belief in the area. Many people say it and you've heard it too. You say that Greece acquires a National Register of Pets. However, Greece has a National Register of Pets in application of Article 4 of Law 4039/2012, called the ‘Internet Electronic Database Recording Data for Pets and their Owners’. Therefore, it is a given that the Register of Pets is supported by a thousand three hundred certified private veterinarians and is interconnected with all the central veterinary services and regional units of the country. So what you are bringing is essentially the duty of the Ministry of Rural Development to deliver the pet database to private individuals and those services, which, while essentially an object, a tool of the Ministry of Rural Development, you are giving it to individuals. So there are too many issues, Minister. There are issues relating to how veterinary services operate effectively, which is a major problem again. Where we were all waiting for what is necessary, for these veterinary services to be strengthened, you are, in fact, moving forward, I would say, to hand over to the private sector a very important task. I close by saying that, as you have done some improvements at the last hour, I would tell you that if you strengthen and upgrade the country's veterinary services at every level, then you can immediately reinstate your proposal. Here we are to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u195	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two comments. Because the opposition parties, and in particular the Civic Opposition, have often accused us of having toward us, I would just like to say that Mr Apostlelos has referred to them all together, indulgently, to the officials of the Ministry of Interior. Who are the "writers" and the "flyers"? The officials of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Apostle? Who are you referring to when you say "writing" and "fashioned"? It has also been reported against all mayors, against all pro-zonals, against all NGOs, unless I understand that your tone was derelict, unless there are good NGOs and bad NGOs, whenever it suits you. And if there was a full record, as you say, we recognize that one sub-registry is in operation. But if there was a full record, can you tell us as a former Minister of State how many strays are? Tell us a number! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u197	Mr Athanasios Davakis from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Arahovitis is prepared. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of a framework for the protection of pets is an important and necessary one, I would say, a reform section and a cultural issue, as the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said a while ago. This bill intends to define the terms of the responsible property of pet animals and, on the other hand, to manage the great social and health issue of stray animals, an issue that, as many colleagues have mentioned so far, has been the subject of all Greek society, towns, villages, the Greek region and the urban centres. In this context, I believe that the bill is moving in the right direction. Various forecasts, such as the National Register of Pets or the Operational Programme "ARGOS" form a single, structured and functional, I would say, animal management and protection system. Mr President, there has been a great debate within the committee on the transfer of certain specific responsibilities - the former Minister, Mr Apostolos, mentioned earlier - from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Interior. I must say that I do not understand why there has been so much reaction to this issue, since the Ministry of Interior is responsible for the functioning of local government, which is carrying out many tasks by the bill under this proposed pet management system. On this occasion, and with regard to the debate on the issue of competences, I would like to make a reference to a similar issue which is afflicting certain regions of the Greek region, such as my own country, Mani. In particular, I would like to raise the issue of stray, unintentional bovine animals. Typically competent Ministry is the Ministry of Rural Development. However, since the management of unreserved cattle is the responsibility of the municipalities, who are now, Minister, provenly, unable to respond, I would like to point out to you the need to transfer this competence to the regions or to have a wider dialogue between many of the services involved, so that we can find a solution to this problem which affects our culture, affects the ecosystem, affects these animals, which are entitled, such as all living creatures, a level of life, but also affects the general picture of areas such as Mani, but also other regions of the Greek region. I have in mind Crete and so on. This issue needs to be dealt with immediately, Minister. I know that you are moving at a hard pace into reformist efforts and I believe that one of them is to heal a problem that hurts all the residents of the Greek region. There has also been a great deal of discussion in the committee on the so-called blockade of veterinarians. I would therefore ask those who support this position if they have read Article 39 which refers to the Special Monitoring Committee. There is a clear reference to the participation of a representative of the Pan-Hellenic Veterinary Association. In fact, I would like to remind you here that in accordance with Articles 39 and 42, the monitoring committee - which, as I said before, will also be a representative of the Pan-Hellenic Veterinary Association - is responsible for a series of monitoring and evaluation tasks, as well as for the formulation of the proposal for any revision of this legislation. In other words, this is a central instrument for assessing and reviewing this framework, which we are currently setting up. As I referred now to the veterinary surgeons and after what has been said and during the hearing of the bodies, both by the Pan-Hellenic Veterinary Association and by the Federation of Hunters, I would like to focus on the issue of compulsory sterilisation and the alternative provided for in Article 9 of the draft law. Minister, at the moment, the views on compulsory sterilisation, as you have clearly seen, are divided. On the one hand, there is the view that the physical integrity of pet animals is a basic condition of well-being. On the other hand, it is widespread and documented that forced sterilisation prevents the spread of abandoned and stray animals and therefore protects them from the suffering involved. I'm not going to see that. It's for granted. Bearing in mind, however, that the legal framework will be judged in practice and revised by the end of five years, one way in which we can resort to resolving the dilemma surrounding compulsory sterilisation is international legislative practice. It's a booze that can lead us to safe conclusions. So what does international experience say? In an effort, for example, to make the issue of stray animals more manageable, most states in the United States provide for sterilisation as one of the main obligations of pet owners. But - and here I would like to draw your attention - in many cases of state legislative frameworks, the following exceptions are provided for in the rule of compulsory sterilisation. Firstly, there are no dogs belonging to the Armed Forces and Security Body. Secondly, dogs and cats belonging to higher education institutions, or to medical and veterinary laboratories. Thirdly, animals belonging to recognised and authorised breeders. And fourthly, dogs used in hunting or other sports activities. In this context, and seeing that the relevant provision of Article 9 already includes the exception for the dogs of the Armed Forces and the Security Body, I propose that we too be converging with this international practice and including in the relevant article, Minister, and the exceptions to higher education institutions and hunters. In any case, of course, if, in five years' time from today, it turns out that these exceptions are problematic, we will be able to eliminate them. I say this with one selfishness, because as a hunter for many years I have grown up with hunters, their names are engraved in my memory and my family, and we have been with them unforgettable moments. You realise that the examples of any other side - I believe that there should be no different sides - must be one that is culture, sensitivity and safe living for all animals - take cases of people who have no hunting ideal and are not distinguished by any feeling of sensitivity to these equals - is understood - living creatures. You realise that the cases in which animals are being tortured, used as hatching machines or in situations which result from any concept of culture, justice, legality and all the other things, are not related to the simple hunter who, with an animal, is trying to spend his free hours at some beautiful moment, entertaining or sporting in the hunt. In any case, because a great deal has been said, I know that you have also heard and considered them. I believe that there can be a certain direction towards what I am saying. Ladies and gentlemen, the Interior Ministry's bill on pet animals is, in my view, a genuine attempt to create a framework for effective protection of animal welfare. That is why, together with the improvements which I so little and other colleagues in the government are proposing, I believe that, in its resolution, the basis for better and effective, I would say, management of the issue of stray animals, as well as for the protection of the rights and well-being of kept pets. I would like to congratulate the Minister for the initiative. I believe that there are points which need to be further worked out or, if you like, a little attention to their implementation from now on, and if you want to have an open spirit of shaping or co-formulating with fellow Members, in order to have a sound, concrete, permanent and commonly accepted piece of legislation - that is the ideal for every piece of legislation, my Minister - which will cover this drama that we see in our cities, our villages and other parts of the stray animals, with all that this contributes to public health, but above all to our culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr Davaki. Mr Arachovitis, I would like to apologise for not seeing the change in where it has happened. I shall give the floor to Mr Efstathios Constantinidis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when one in the two families in our country has a pet in its home, when biopolitics, work, safety, functionality, entertainment, the company of millions of Greeks is involved in the presence of an animal in their lives, when feelings of love and affection for animals are brutally offended by the indifference or perversion of some people, but also when the daily lives of many of our fellow citizens are affected or made difficult by the uncontrolled functioning of an inefficient framework for dominance and stray animals, then we must not be surprised at the length, interest and tension that has emerged in the process of legislating the draft under discussion and, of course, the changes that have arisen from the creative dialogue. It is perfectly logical, when it comes to a wide-ranging subject with many dimensions and similar different perspectives. However, I would say that a piece of legislation which deals with the protection of animals, their registration and identification, the framework for their breeding, reproduction and marketing, the encouragement of their adoption, the responsibilities of owners and owners, the responsibilities, the powers and the financing of municipalities for implementing such actions, the establishment of bodies and the creation of registers for the registration and use of useful data, the movement and transport of animals and their access to beaches and other public places, their participation in exhibitions and spectacular events, the prevention of abuse phenomena and the punishment of offenders, the treatment of diseases and zoonoses, the creation of parks and shelters, and finally the burial and incineration of animals, this is wrong when we approach it by means of human-centred criteria, that is to say, when we assess it from how it affects our own animals, while the core of which is their own animals and their welfare. We therefore have to do with a zoocentric - let me have the term - a piece of legislation, as the motto accompanying it confirms: 'No animal stray, no animal malicious'. This is the main targeting and, unfortunately, we are far from achieving it. The strays have flooded the villages and cities in schools, hospitals, institutions, squares and not just in the region, and where there are hospitality structures, these are generally in serious shortages and do not respond to the level we would all want, to say it as elegantly as possible. However, even the framework for dominance has many gaps, and it also suffers in its field of application, and there are serious malfunctions and so many of them eventually end up straying. The problem is therefore a real and strong one and anyone who does not see it will be blinded. Unfortunately, however, the debate on the 'new generation' sometimes instead of the substance, was excavated to whom he loves, who knows and who cares better or more for animals, or even in even more inappropriate comparisons between animals and humans. The bill, therefore, is bold and realistic about existing problems, away from stereotypes and divisions. I heard objections. Many found me in agreement, and several were incorporated into the new plan. I sent you, Minister, the concern of the Municipality of Voju about the participation of riders in popular events with a high national symbolism. You accepted it. I sent you a memorandum with the appropriate observations of the Kozani Hunting Association, some of which I also saw adopted. You have accepted - and rightly so - the discharge of our farmers from the expenditure on sending organic material for their dogs. You've even made improvements today. And all of this is not as a result of pressures or balances, but of dialogue and good processing. Of course, there are aspects that veterinary surgeons, other hunters, other clubs, other breeders and others are best acquainted with. Many times, in fact, they are in conflict or are incompatible with each other, as is the case with many issues of social life. Each of its perspectives is right, especially when it takes as a criterion the consistent behaviour of all the members of the group it represents. But we are not all consistent. If we were, maybe we didn't need a new framework. But can anyone on the ground support this today? So, if I had to illustrate the dialogue on the subject, I would have given him with separate titles that each one of them has in the centre of the animal, while the bill under discussion as an attempt to make these circles concentrating. This is what we are looking for, the harmonious and functional composition that may not completely resolve all the dimensions of the problem, but certainly improve them considerably. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is achieved by predictions for the recording and electronic identification of animals, for their vaccination and sterilisation, for the extension of the beneficiaries free of charge by municipalities, for the provision of food and medicines to pro-zootic associations and contractors, for the procedure and control and identification of the offenders from animals that have been abandoned, abused or found dead and for the imposition of criminal and administrative penalties. Furthermore, it is achieved by provisions for the delivery of pet animals to the relevant municipal authority, where a citizen cannot continue to take care of it, for the obligation of municipalities to have, from now on, an integrated operational management programme, at least one shelter, a specially designed stray vehicle, to provide the necessary veterinary services and the possibility to establish incinerators, for the organisation of training seminars and awareness-raising events, for the establishment of financial tools and procedural facilities for the implementation of the actions concerned, but also economic sanctions in cases of non-compliance and, lastly, for the determination of performance indicators with the first year of application in 2023. All this makes the draft law possible the first integrated legislative project which, if embraced by all the involved, will give solutions to the issue of animal welfare. That is why we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Constantinidis. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, unfortunately, the cases of New Democracy Members have been multiplying with vile, provocative and unacceptable statements about their institutional role. On the other hand, however, we see that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is showing a tolerance. We don't know how to interpret this. The cases are getting a lot, they get worse and there's no reaction. Suppose the New Democracy Parliamentary Group applauds and adopts such attitudes as colleagues? I don't want to believe that. So we're waiting for a reaction. We expect all the Members of Parliament to react at this time. I come to the bill, ladies and gentlemen. It is good that we have this great turnout of Ministers in plenary. We have not seen this in the last few days, nor in the debate on the bill in the committees, nor in the debate on the public sphere. It seems that after the outcry of the institutions, which was almost universal, the ministers were mobilized. Such homogeneity really by the bodies that express the whole society, express the scientists, express the public, express the veterinarians, express the hunters, express local self-government and, of course, the philosophers, so catholic fronts we rarely meet. So here's something's wrong. Something really isn't right with the bill. And we see that the government continues to defend provisions on which very specific objections have been raised without justifying them, without saying what is the reason why they are going on with them and what need they serve. It only defends correctness, without explaining what the substance was, the driving force to move forward to such changes. And we note with great regret again that the government majority was so disturbed by the positions of the institutions, which even went to personal attacks, and indeed to the face of the President of the Geotechnical Chamber, the State's institutional adviser. I think that is unacceptable and an apology must be said. But let's go to bill issues one. As far as the issue of competences is concerned, I am starting with what I was saying that the government has not yet explained to us what the need was for the transfer of the specific responsibilities from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely the division in the reality of competences in two ministries, because, as the ministers who have so far spoken on all positions, a part of the responsibilities remains in the Rural Development and another part goes to the Ministry of Interior. Questions: With what staff will the Ministry of Interior be able to support the new responsibilities? Here we have terrible shortages of veterinarians in slaughterhouses where veterinarians are required to be, so that they see the suitability of the carcase for human consumption. We don't have vets in the field, we don't have vets for mass vaccinations. In Laconia, in my home country - Mr. Davakis is here and knows well - there is a terrible lack of staffing with veterinarians. This is happening in all parts of Greece, and I tell you, for the sake of knowledge, as a former Minister. We had reached agreement with the Ministry of Interior on the recruitment of a hundred and seventy-two veterinarians in all regions of Greece. Two years later, they haven't been placed. And the government is asking for additional powers to be transferred. Who's gonna pick that up? Point 2, international practice. You have also heard from our rapporteur and from many too many that in international practice it is not customary for strays to break the competence of two ministries. It is common to be in the Ministry of Rural Development or in Georgia, depending on the country. Point 3, you have heard the bodies of local government which were all clear about what they want and you insist. Point fourth, you spoke of the 40 million with which you celebrate you are subsidising local government. Actions have been taken in the 'Philodimos' programme - as much as you wish to forget the 'Philodimos' - refugee programmes throughout Greece, and I would remind you that there have been exceptional funding for local self-government for the purchase of feed and consumables. Instead of continuing and stepping up such a practice, you prefer to once give a sum of 40 million and finish. What does that mean, practically? It means that those municipalities that cannot make any progress in infrastructure will be obliged to create contracts with other entities, as provided for in this Article, in order to pass on the activity of hosting strayers to non-civil authorities. This actually shows that you have been cut off, ladies and gentlemen, by a majority of the government. The fact that you do not listen to the bodies, the whole society, means that you have been cut off. There's something else at the same time. It shows the arrogance of your administration to go ahead with something that you are very critical of, and in its core you are not changing anything. I will tell you this: In consultation it was one of the most commentary bills, which related to the core of the bill, not corrigendum. These eleven thousand remarks were made in short at the hearing of the bodies, where everyone or almost all of them were across. To show such perseverance, it means you have something else in your mind. This is something else we really would like to hear because so far you have been hiding behind the fact that straying is a real problem for society without either entering into its essence, which is how the problem arises, or actually entering into who will manage this problem on criteria of animal welfare, first of all, but also the humanism that we need to have in our day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis. Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with two points which my colleague has mentioned, and I think it is important to clarify. Our colleagues and ministers have already placed themselves in this regard. We must make it clear that the transfer of competence to the Ministry of the Interior was a necessary move for the simple reason that, at the very moment when the municipalities are 'run' the refugee programme, the municipalities must have the power but also be able to control it. If, therefore, the competence was to another Ministry which does not directly or indirectly supervise the municipalities, this control could not be carried out. And we know that the obligation to make animal shelters in municipalities has been in place for many years now, but no supervisory mechanism existed and no way of compelling the municipalities to implement these basic animal infrastructures has been set. That is why the transfer of this competence to the Ministry of the Interior is very critical and vital for the success of the operation of shelters for the benefit of pet animals. And the second is this. As the "Philodimos" programme was mentioned, I would like to say that in the "Philodimos" programme, the municipality had planned to create shelters. But were there enough resources? Because most municipalities, at least in the Prefecture of Ilias that I have personal knowledge, did not find resources in the "Philodimos" program to build the shelters when they wanted. So to a large extent that "Philodimos" programme had too many funds put in, which did not actually correspond, there was no money in the "Philodimos" fund. However, I shall return to my speech as I did. Let me tell you this. As I read this bill is very important and it really solves in the right direction a number of outstanding issues with regard to both stray animals and kept pet animals which had not been solved in our country. In our country - it is commonly accepted - animals do not enjoy the care and legal protection they deserve. It was therefore necessary to make such a draft law again and the bill goes in two main directions: it is moving in the direction of the owner now recognising his obligations towards the animals he is hosting. And I'd say he's not the owner of the property of someone who owns a pet, but he's a guardian, he's a guardian of his, he's a guardian of his, he's a guardian of that state, and that's the result of obligations. It therefore introduces the concept of responsible "ownership" this bill. On the other hand, however, it also presents a necessary, as we have said, a comprehensive management plan for this major issue. Having followed the consultation of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministers responsible and in the contacts I, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the House with the ministers, found that they did stand on this bill and reviewed it several times, so that we could have a good solution and a good, integrated system for managing this issue today. Indeed, because a number of colleagues have also referred to the international experience that exists from the other Member States, we have to say that this bill is based on the European Union regulation 2016/429, which means that, in order to make a regulation and adopt it, it has been consulted by the Member States of the European Union and incorporates the experience of the Member States of the European Union and of course also of the Commission itself. So this piece of legislation that we have today under discussion and that incorporates the very important experience of the other European countries and the measures it adopts is even clearer and more concrete. It is very important that the National Register of Pets is created and the other sub-registers are upgraded. I would say, for example, in terms of the improvement shown by the sub-registrations that it was of great interest that the sub-registration of pet animals should now be recorded, because the existence of the medical data of an animal is very important to the owner, but also to a veterinarian who does not know the animal's history, and there will be a need at that time to intervene for the benefit of the animal's health. It is very important that veterinary surgeons will know the medical history at any time. Of course, it goes without saying that the Subsection of the Philozootic Associations and Organisations is of paramount importance to register the recognised and legally operating pro-zoozootic unions there - there is no need for an analysis of this - and of course also the operation of the Panhellenic Platform for the Adoption of Federated Pets. We need it, it is an important tool for proper management and transparency in the adoption programmes, because we need to eliminate every possibility of an animal that we believe is going to be exploited. We have had some regrettable incidents in the past and we should really not have that possibility in the future. Of course, it would also be worth placing particular emphasis on establishing for the first time the concept of a pet contractor. This is an institution that serves to accommodate an animal in a house for a short time. The possibility of receiving the pet is very useful in practice, and that is why it is worth being made more widely known to our fellow citizens so that they can make use of it and give the opportunity to animals who need to be accommodated for a short time, to be able to do so. Furthermore, for pets that cannot be found in a house, a supplementary institution is being established - and I stress that it is complementary - the Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan. The animal shelter is not the first solution. The first solution is to find a home, a family. If this is not possible, the country's refuges are very important and with specific specifications, and it is important that shelters can now be operated both by the municipalities, the associations of municipalities, and the pro-zonal unions that are registered in the register, but also by private philosophers and in this way, with this combination of forces covering the entire Greek territory from the shelters. So they must all join together, so that no animal can stay homeless and no animal can stay without a family or refuge. And the shelters, as we have said, will have specific specifications, appropriate facilities. There is provision for adequate staff and for the care of a contracted veterinarian, and provision is also made for the possibility of enclosed dog parks from the municipalities, because the conditions of incarceration for animals should not be created, but they should lead their lives to their proper nature. And the "ARGOS" programme will provide the municipalities with the necessary funding for the logistics infrastructure they need. Here is an innovation, that they will be able to receive financial support from municipalities and pro-zootic unions. Thus, with secure resources, there will be no justification for their municipalities or associations no longer having shelters. Also to stress here that the law on pet shelters is no longer lex imperfecta, it is not an incomplete law, but it is a law that if you violate it, sentences are introduced to those who do not effectively apply the management model and there is constant monitoring of the performance of the municipalities in this area. And here we need the Interior Ministry. The provisions introduced in relation to criminal conduct against pet animals are very important. The murder and torture of animals in all forms they can take are now serious abuses of a malicious nature and result in criminal and serious administrative sanctions. Already our Government had taken an important step and had described animal torture as a felony with Law 4745/2020. Also very important is the addition of the regulation that introduces the possibility of presenting political treatment in the criminal proceedings and in the case of any pro-zootic union that is interested in the benefit of an animal. On the one hand, the increase in the penalty for abandoning an animal and, on the other, the provision of an alternative solution for those owners of animals can no longer offer care to those owners, together with the municipality concerned, to make an announcement to the Pan-Hellenic Platform for the Adoption of Lone Animals. It's going to be a salvage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u205	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u206	Of course, I'll be out in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u207	In a minute, it'll be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u208	I'm sorry, I don't see the time because I'm not in the Chamber and there's no possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u209	I get it, Mrs. Agerinopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u210	I conclude by saying this. It is important that the Panhellenic Platform for the Adoption of Unbelieving Animals, it is important that the record of offenders, as well as the competence recognised by the Citizens' Ombudsman for the Mediation on Animal Rights, as well as the specific training of the Security Bodies on the philanthropy and welfare of animals. In closing, I am completing these important regulations of the bill, saying that in a year to come, after evaluating this bill, I would also like to table a proposal, should we investigate the creation of a national animal welfare agency in the OFEKA model, which will have all the responsibilities together. We need to work on this proposal and we can see it in a time to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Agerinopoulou. Now let's go to Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou from the SYRIZA Progressive Alliance, the veterinarian that Mr. Arachovitis was looking for. Good evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u212	Good evening, Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, just before the Step of the House, Mr Tsavdaridis, because he obviously feels accused and even guilty of the conscience of Greek society, after the general outcry for this bill, as a common slander, he referred to Article 24 of the Constitution - it has nothing to do with what we are talking about today and I shall not go further because of the complexity of the issue - and as a fraudster who is guilty of trying to escape, he said half the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u213	Mrs. Tyloridou, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u214	He forgot to say that at the time for the revision of the Constitution and the eighty-four Members of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u215	Mrs. Tyloridou, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, he referred to me and I am obliged to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u217	I would ask that we erase the 'fraud'. I want you to take back the 'fraud'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u218	"As a crook," I said, I didn't say he was a crook.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u219	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u220	He therefore forgot that all eighty-four Members of the New Democracy, with the exception of the same vote, had voted 'no' in the revision of this article. I won't disguise the names of him. But I challenge him to read the names of all eighty-four Members of the party who voted against and one to one of them address what he said from the Step of the House with a very splendid look that they are not entitled to speak. Mr. Pecha, coming to the bill, honestly how did you manage it like that? You succeeded in turning all actors against you. They all disagree, each for their own reasons different, but showing that there was neither concrete target nor effective consultation on this draft law. If there was a specific target, one of all actors would say that he agrees with you. And even if we disagreed, you'd be the target. If there was substantial consultation, I think it would be a draft law that would solve and would not cause any further problems. None of them happened. It turns out to be sloppy but also ignorance of the way you legislated. I was very surprised by the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy, Mr Brutsis, who said very strongly that "for the first time, for the first time, he comes to the Greek Parliament a bill on pet animals". This alone proves he doesn't know the matter. Law 4039 wasn't a bill concerning pet animals? And he continued with the same style: "For the first time a bill, for the first time sanctions for abuse." The previous governments had not done sanctions for abuse? Even the legislative initiative of Mr. Vorides of his party doesn't know? I have the impression that today you are talking about speaking and legislating to legislate. There is a proven ignorance of the subject, and this is even more evidence of the legislative improvements at the last minute that, after the general outcry, some of them are admittedly in the positive direction. You have attempted with this bill to satisfy a pre-election promise made by Mr Mitsotakis, in my opinion, with purely communication and curiosity, without knowing what you are going to do. You have chosen a process that has no beginning, in the middle of all, finally, has no reference to dealing with the cause of this problem, has no reference to ensuring that, through the management of this public health problem and, above all, you have insulted everyone else, you have insulted the scientists, the majority of the pro-zootic organisations, local self-government and you have offended them because you have ignored everyone's proposals. One of the basic elements of the justification for this bill is that, in my opinion, it is inadmissible by your officials that the problem of strayers is due to syndicate interests and especially to the interests of veterinarians. As a veterinarian, I believe that decency in the role of Greek veterinarians is a flagrant injustice and a disgraceful slander against a scientific sector, which is a key interlocutor at a global level and to address the issue of stray animals and modern challenges. It really is an unfair attitude to our industry. So, after you have thrown its views beforehand in the gallery of the unusable, you are being seized by the Directorate-General for Veterinary and transferred to an under-established and questionable section of the Ministry of the Interior because, he says, the municipalities have the shelters. The municipalities also have the buildings of the school units. Shall we also go to primary and secondary education from the Ministry of Education to the municipalities? And you think that even though this shows an inconsistency with this, you are doing well with the fragmentation of medical services. I too, because a lot has been said, will only ask one question. When the country is represented in the European Union, which under Regulation 625/2017 must be represented by a single veterinary authority, who will go? The Ministry of the Interior Directorate-General for Veterinary, which will be responsible for the productive animals or the department undergoing the establishment of the Ministry of Interior, will be responsible for strays? And in any case, all countries will be represented by experts and Greece will be represented by unauthorised, perhaps by the state of service? That you don't care about scientists and veterinarians, and the GEOTE said so themselves. Are you interested in the proposals from the pro-zootic organisations, which you have reached and even to the point that you have removed the right to present a civil action given to them by adding to Article 20 of Law 4039 by the government of SYRIZA in 2017? Fortunately you changed it at the last minute. This, however, shows that this bill really has many gaps and many gray zones. I understand the problem arising from the different viewpoints of the various operators. You tried on the proposal from the pro-zootic organisations for compulsory sterilisation to give a solution for those who do not want to sterilise their animals and said that they should send the samples of genetic DNA material to the genetic storage and analysis laboratory. Totally inapplicable. Will you get DNA from the millions of strays in the country to find their mother and father? In an imaginary way that has a scientific wrapping, you are actually putting an average collector. And indeed, I think that you are putting this in a moment of economic suffocation for the average Greek family and you think - we have heard from Mr Brutsis again - that you will solve the economic problem, because you have reduced the VAT on animal feed from 13% to 6%, when the average increase in feed is 40%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, do you think with stunned blokes where the Prime Minister asks if the horse is male or female, you're going to change things? You do not know how to distinguish the gender of an animal and you do not take into account the view of scientists, who tell you that to make DNA traceability in animals it is too difficult for certain reasons and we can only have an indication. Do you have the impression that, by saying all this, you can change things?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u221	Slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. Many gray zones have the bill - I don't have time to say it - by the contractor, by the shelters, by the sale of animals. You didn't take the initiative and the courage to say that animals aren't objects, they're not gifts. Even in their sale they should be in short-term accommodation and not be sold as gifts. National Cooperative Register: Many problems, additional administrative and bureaucratic work and costs to individuals. And you entrust the municipalities with absolute responsibility, without specifying anything other than the resources that SYRIZA obtained in 2019 with "PILADIMOS II" for the construction, repair and maintenance. That is why I am very concerned about both the financing of both the procedure and the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u223	And that's what you're gonna do, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u224	I want, finally, to say that it's positive...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u225	I've already left you four minutes longer, Mrs. Tyloridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u226	In half a minute, I just want to say that it is positive that the provision in Article 23 for the Pasteur Institute is changed, although it is incomplete. Finally, I want to tell you that this bill is not philosophical. It is bad for animals, but also for people who love them, and after the reactions of the institutions, it would be desirable to withdraw immediately, to open up a real dialogue that will favour cooperation, understanding and not division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u227	With all due respect, Mrs. Tyloridou, we also withdraw that dictionary with 'if', without 'if', because we are opponents, not enemies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I did not intend to describe my colleague as such, which is why I said 'as a fraudster'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u229	It is not right to hear about colleagues like that talk in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u230	Obviously, I do not mean 'a fraud'. If you're judging, withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to all the rapporteurs and we will close with the Minister. The first is Mrs Adamopoulou's speech from Mera25. Two minutes is enough, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the fact that you have come with fragmentary legislative improvements at the last moment, that is to say, since public consultation had already expired and the meetings in the committee had been preceded, does not mean that these fragmentary improvements have been able to affect the core of your bill, which is problematic, such as the transfer of powers - I will say for the last time - from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Interior, as is problematical the management of issues such as adoption, as the assumption. But what you're doing is attempting to correct some mistakes at the last minute. This in no way constitutes good and responsible legality. It is, on the contrary, a confession of your amateurism. You have had plenty of time, since you said that you were moved by fourteen thousand comments on a specific matter. You have had plenty of time, just after the public consultation ended to incorporate these comments in the bill. You did not do so, after the consultation has ended, because the consultation has no power, it does not show up on the channels, but you did so today in plenary only to have a communication force. You have forty-seven provisions. You have had two years since your election these provisions to work them out seriously following serious public consultation. I note that there are articles which, from this legislative framework, have been removed, such as the provision that within two years of the publication of this law, are created and operated in each municipality and in adjacent municipalities of stray animals. You've gone missing that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Delete from the National Register in relation to missing animals after five years is insufficient because it does not protect animals against traceability, detection and monitoring.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u233	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u234	Of course, we should also comment on the fact that the digital database is being transferred to the Ministry of Digital Governance, which, as the President of the Pan-Hellenic Veterinary Association has said, means that you want to keep the veterinarians away from the database and, more generally, from the management of matters. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - by saying that the core of the bill remains problematic against the institutional guarantees of this legislative framework. Withdraw the bill. I invite you for the last time to come to serious public consultation with the institutions and to introduce a more serious and coherent framework that does not weaken the protectionist existing framework with its institutional guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Petsa, a nice song by Kalogannis says: "We moved elsewhere and life took us elsewhere." For elsewhere you've started, and elsewhere you've gone and I don't know where you're going to get, because another bill was filed, another one you brought us here with many supplements, and before we go to Stepma today, you brought two dozen, twenty-two legislators. We have said so earlier that for many of them one can interpret that the government is listening to the voice of our reasoning and you have adopted them, but the other is showing your legislative slut, as government and on the knee. He'll be judged. I think we are talking today about a great lost opportunity. We could do a lot better work. On the occasion of this, Mr President - I would like to address the Minister - Article 23, a ban on the participation of animals in all kinds of spectacles and other related activities, you have various means and you are trying to ensure it as much as you can. You say that the abuse and slaughter of animals in this context, in cases, etc., are strictly prohibited. That's satisfactory, isn't it? Here, Mr Petsa, we are going to bring back an issue that, as a Greek solution, we had also raised Mr Vorides, when four or five months ago he had brought that amendment with the strictness of a felony. Remember this amendment, which we have all voted in favour, we have all applauded, because it is self-evident in that country, that the abuse of animals should be regarded as a felony. So here, Mr President, I would like, when you speak, if you have the kindness, to give an answer to that, and if you intend to do something, it is time to speak very seriously on the 'halal' issue, 'health' - the word of the Muslims, which is made by a knife. We're talking about horror! It's a ritual painful slaughter of the animal. Here are now circulating 'halal' products in Greece. These are incredible things. This is a horrific process, which we are once again bringing back to the Greek Parliament. Mr Vorides did not reply to us at that time, not in private, when we met here and not even in the House, officially, as a party, when we raised the matter. You should be aware, Mr Petsas, that there is European legislation which forbids this, that the animal is slaughtered directly, without being stunned before being made aware by special pistols, etc. You know that. And these people have now come - unfortunately, Greece has been filled with them, with Muslims, it is a phenomenon of the time - and we have this phenomenon of 'halal'. In Belgium - because we often call on Europe and want to become Europe - it has been banned. The Belgians rose, the prozootics rose, everyone rose up and voted unanimously by the Belgian Parliament. In Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, New Zealand has also been banned. Greece, our Greece, what does it expect to abolish this horrific story with the knives, slaughter animals with special knives and have a painful death so that they can feed their meat? Well, we're not going crazy. We would like an answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Heta. We move to Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin by greeting today's gatherings, demonstrations, students and teachers who are on the way here in Athens right now, claiming safe conditions for their schools. They demand coverage of all vacancies, gaps in infrastructure, classes and conditions that allow education to be provided to our children on the basis of their current needs, i.e. covering the needs on the one hand, but also on the basis of the current possibilities that we have as a country and as a society. Secondly, the Minister referred to the intervention after the speech of our parliamentary representative. We'll file the document. The Hellenic Society for Local Development and Government, the EBRD, following the announcement of the results of the ESDP programmes and the completion of the registration of children in social structures, i.e. daycare stations, creativity centres, CSRs, and centres for the creative employment of disabled people, CSRs - LEADs, found - the figures are concrete - that thousands of children remain outside these structures this year. And it is clear from the definitive results in Greece, one third of the children, that is, more than eighty-five thousand, for which applications have been made, that they have not been able to obtain one of the limited positions. In particular, over fifty thousand children - you said that - although they met the criteria for the programme, they were out of structure because they did not receive the voucher registration voucher because of the limited funds. We are tabling the document in the Minutes, so that you and my fellow Members can also know it. [[At this point, F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Now, for the two amendments of the Ministry of Interior: the first amendment under number 1065 of the Ministry of Interior we are voting against. In our vote the first article, where we disagree, is to promote flexibility in the public administration, with many speed services, covering staff needs, with all kinds of working relationships, flexible forms of work and going by saying. In fact, all means are used, and this, through this legislative intervention, to make the government's public administration accountable, but also to have its hands broken, not only the present government but also all the governments, in terms of staff. In fact, as is stated in the article in this amendment, the Government is also calling for - and we have heard it from the Minister who supported the amendment - the adoption of a Presidential Decree, but which can change everything, in fact, by noting what is stated in the explanatory statement on a single approach or the fragmentation of sectors in the Greek public administration. We would have no objection to the other articles in this amendment, but this amendment is a burden on our vote, against. I shall go to the second amendment - and I shall close with that, Mr President - Amendment No 1066, which is also the Ministry of the Interior. We are also voting against it. Our disagreement is based on Articles 3, 4 and 6, but in particular on Articles 3 and 4, where, on the one hand, Article 3 in the programming contracts for the ATTs, which are already under the 'CALICRATES' Act, in other words, the institutional development of areas, with various institutions, is now added to GEIOSE. In essence, another land portfolio is added for the development of business activity, with the assistance of the local administration. I am also going to Article 4 of the amendment, which, if it were a matter of course, we would vote against. The interest in this article is, not only that it extends for a decade the unacceptable fee imposed by 80%, that is to say, which is paid by the people in their pockets, but also provides for an unacceptable exemption for businesses, which, as "the special fee is exempted from the undertakings which are guaranteed by their own JHA networks", without a study being carried out, the construction of an extension of water supply and sewerage projects from the JHA concerned. Therefore, not only does it exempt businesses from the end of 80%, but it also allows them to connect with the JHA networks in how they like them, without even a study, which means that JHA cannot ensure the quality of the work in such an important area. So everything is for the needs of businessmen and how it suits them. So we are voting against this amendment. There are articles that we could vote on, but unfortunately this is the way in which we are forced to vote in a single way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. We're moving on to Mrs. Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I should like to pay tribute to our time, Mr President, even though many of the amendments and a lot of what we need to comment on. So with titles, I will only mention them. Minister, first of all, because you will speak, I would like to ask you something about the legislative process. If we understood it correctly, why would you tell us that we didn't understand the law again? Bring to number 2, 4 and 9 legislators and delete the phrase "and have licensed shelters or shelters that meet the specifications" of Articles 28 and 29, which broke into our garments for the 28 and 29 shelters and the conditions for tyres, relaxed. And where we, in other words the opposition, told you about it, you abolished it from everywhere. So you're saying that philosophicals, both the record and the others, don't need to have reference to shelters. That's philosophical and seal. To understand. You can explain that to us. A philosophical union, X club, which goes to the Court of First Instance and is done in this way, is enough. So that's what you're saying. Explain it to us. We now go further to the amendments, and in particular to the amendment by the Ministry of Education under number 1064-109. This evil with the amendments, that you have piles of articles and some of them have positive provisions and necessary, and some others are totally opposed to us, is the evil of legislating in the amendments. So 1 and 2 finds us in agreement. 3 creates and raises issues that we will overcome and vote in favour of this amendment. It raises questions which are raised and which are very serious and real. It shows the Department is ignoring how an EIO works. I don't want to expand, but he's talking about measures, he's talking about a student next to the other, without keeping distances, where the halls are going to be, what's going to happen, etc. He is also managing the story of COVID. But I'm putting this aside, because it's a second matter. Let's go to the Interior Ministry's amendment, number 1065/110. Well, are you really saying now that you're bringing such an amendment to the animal law? You do this to the Ministry of the Interior and we whisper - and you, Minister, often, must be displeased - with other ministries that are putting us on the inside and running and we are not getting there, and now what are you bringing us? For the branch, where's the entire chapter? The government's inability to do so is complete. Two and a half years now, can't you solve this and bring it to a solution overnight? What's the schedule, what can I start with? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if not a minute, please be indulgent. What happened to the programme implemented by the Ministry of the Interior to rationalise public sector sectors? What about this program? Is there a possibility of developing or promoting only this sector? Is it part of a larger and wider programme? In the law on the final state, Law 4622, there is provision for the creation of inter-ministerial branches. Today, three years later, it's still not set up. How's all this connected to each other? And are you bringing this issue in an amendment? What can I say? I really don't have any words. Also, in Article 2, essentially this article says that the plentiful law on the new ASP, adopted by your Government, will not apply to the recruitment of permanent staff authorised for the next period. Why? Now I'm going to tell you: 'We've been talking to you.' In this microphone we said you wouldn't be able to do what you're telling us. The next year, when you were ready and ready, we talked about this microphone - I was rapporteur - the same things. There it is in front of us, then. Now you want deadlines. And, of course, you are establishing, with Article 4, a provision for a reduction in working hours of up to 50% for up to five years, while there is whole legislation, Minister. And you're not telling us what you're going to do with this legislation? What's it gonna do? The other law, where the clerk can get permission for up to two and a half years? Isn't it a confusing law? Isn't it? Do you know that, that we have other legislation? I just found her. Two and a half years or five years? Please take a look at this. Please. Why are we voting at the end? You don't know what you're voting for. In Article 5, of course, you are changing the provisions applicable to permits...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u241	And that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u242	What can I do, Mr. President? It's my fault? The government brought us two more bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u243	What am I supposed to do? Twenty-three minutes you spoke to your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u244	You give us two minutes. What can I do, Mr. President? Shouldn't I explain our vote? Please, your tolerance. I'm also a head of interior department.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u245	You're very capable of telling them sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, how soon can I say this? I'm telling you. Well, in Article 6, you again give parental leave - not new permits, but authorisations already in existence -, differentiating their number this time and increasing the father's license number. In Article 8- Imagine now, imagine in the count we are lost - repeat what Article 4 says about civil servants. You say in Article 9 what Article 5 says, again multi-legislation here. And in Article 10 a few days ago you legislated to stop the diversions and transfers, and now we have derogations in front of us with Article 10. Now tell me how to vote for this, let us be consensual, and we have good will, good will, which we do not want to confuse or confuse. You're not gonna figure it out again. You'll come back here again. Again, you will ask for an excellent time limit, which, otherwise, you are also forgettable and ask again for a deadline, as you have done in the other amendment - and I shall finish, Mr President - with a special number of 1066 and a special number of 111 for OTAs, a programme of 'THESIS'. Since when do you ask? At 31 December 2020 the deadline is over and now you are asking, retroactively, to extend the programme. Isn't that right? That's how long we've been dating. Two months left until the year's over, and now you're asking us retrospectively. Let's go and say that you're doing well. Mr President, I shall end. I won't say about the other articles. I will only say about Article 6. Your Government, Minister, again brings in a provision for municipal and regional councils and, while there is the possibility of a teleconferencing conference, it gives the opportunity to rotate conferences of municipal and regional councils, easing the institution. Not only that, but you also give retroactive effect to the decisions taken in a non-legislative way. And you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u247	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u248	Sure. Because if there is no circular and provision, why are you retrospectively claiming decisions in this way, if there is no way? So take that off. Take that off, so we can vote on it. Take that off. What's behind this? What sessions have been held and do you want to legalise with the amendment? Besides - and I conclude - these legislative improvements that you brought into the bill to the key points of disagreement have nothing to do with the suggestions not only of our own party, but, unfortunately, of counter-population and operators. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, too. From here you brought it to me, from there you brought it to me, a little 'complete', a little 'finish', you reached eight minutes. If you know that amendments will be made. Mr Kegeroglu has protested several times at the Conference of Presidents, take some time from your prototype, as Mrs Pulou has done. Mrs. Pulu has every right. So Mrs Panayiou Poulo has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, these are not better legal interventions. On the contrary, many articles in the bill are worsening, further relaxing the framework for protecting and promoting animal welfare. Unfortunately, one more chance has been lost. I would therefore like to refer to intervention number 2, Article 2(7), also to intervention number 4, Article 4(4), and to intervention number 9, Article 10(6), where the bill is allegedly improved, you say that the collection and hosting of stray animals from philosophical animals, which have no shelter, and other infrastructure in general. So where will the animals be hosted? You simply broaden the scope of individuals who will claim direct works from the municipalities. The number 11 intervention in Article 10(14) obliges the municipalities to comply within six months, you say, in fact, in order to mitigate their objections and to reassure them, you are allegedly committing, by adding number 20 to Article 45(6), that within three months, you will issue the Ministry of Interior and Finance to increase the CFP by 15 million for their operating costs. And if you are late, how will the towns in danger and with punishment, for example, the retention of the CAP? With the number 14 intervention in Article 23(2), I can only suck, Mr Petsa. Here you systematically remove substantial responsibilities from the municipal councils, as well as the borrowing decision to be documented and to decide two thirds of all councillors, based on the Code of Municipalities and Communities and not on Skourlet's interventions. You are now entrusting us to decide on the participation of animals in traditional events. It is, in fact, a great upgrade of the responsibilities of our collective bodies. Also, with the number 15 intervention in Article 23(5), you removed the rodents but not the weasel species, which, as the Pasteur memorandum states, but also the other research centres, are used as an ideal animal model and the COVID research -19. Please see it even now. We are opposed to your number 17 intervention on Article 28(3). Minister, I want you to listen to me because I want your answer. Restrictions from settlements, schools, hospitals are abolished and only keep the word 'up to five kilometres'. What does that mean? And five and ten meters? So, you're gonna put them in the bourgeois tissues? Finally, with your 20th second intervention on Article 46(6), you propose shelters already authorised until the entry into force of this Regulation ‘should comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 28 and 29 by 30 September 2023’. Minister, what do you propose? To punish, in other words, the municipalities which have had time to build projects, shelters and other infrastructures? Because there has been a lot of time for them to be licensed, to be approved. Now we're gonna punish them for that? Because if they are to comply with Articles 28 and 29, where the standards are changed, they will never end these works by the municipalities. With regard to the amendments, in Amendment No 1066 and in Amendment No 111 you must definitely see - and we have asked you, Minister, because they really are a little Russian roulette of this - the charges. You need to remove them. What are you talking about? That it has retroactive effect, that is, you limit the fines for them - you know where I'm talking about - for the combinations of government I and II for their election expenses. So what do you say? All that's been paid, they've been paid. Yes, sir. What's the charge? How can you today allow limited sanctions with retroactive effect from March 2019 and not include them? I mean, commonly, whoever got there was a chance. On Amendment No 1064/9 by the Ministry of Education, we are voting 'present'. We agree on the use of electronic means to ensure health care at universities, but you are reopening the procedure of direct awards. Yet again, you have been delayed and deliberately I would say. There is a dubiousness in planning and feasibility for private individuals. Finally, in Amendment No 1065 we are also voting 'at present' because we consider it to be a rough piece of legislation that comes within an unrelated - as usual - draft law. And I would like, Minister, to close by answering whether you are accepting the amendment by the SYRIZA Members to correct a failure, a social injustice, to appoint their relatives and the contract workers of PPC. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. We're moving on with Mrs. Fotini Pipili from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u252	Minister, it's unprecedented. You have gone up to Babel, you have done it, you have come out of the labyrinth without Ariadne, because it really has not gone through my more general experience. We must admit that. The whole of the counterpopulation in the morning was horizontally negative and horizontally negative. The philosophical organizations have disagreements with each other. It's ice-cream know-how. The veterinary trade unions - we have heard them - are also differentiated. I would like to say that you have tried and managed to achieve it at least with the New Democracy, indeed, to bring together a huge cup of cups within and now manage to vote for a bill that, as I said, was extremely difficult, a bill that needs special attention from all of us, that is to say, the MPs of Coalition and Anti-Population, to monitor it. It's a bill distinguished by the worthy mayors, and that's why I'm really optimistic. It is an experiment and those who are worthy will be distinguished from this bill. Not everyone's gonna make it. Also, those who are truly philosophers and not only seals of clubs and federations that have and differentiations can finally prove that they are truly philosophers, but they can also work together for the good of society. So it goes without saying that we may be alone in the vote on the bill, but the opposition must also be concerned because there are many philosophers who have not even liked one provision. I said this from the outset that the bill is not excellent, but the simple world is wondering and I have many messages that say to me: "But well, Mrs Pipilis, not a single provision?" They may have voted in accordance with Article. In any case, I wish everyone good luck and thank you for the cooperation I have had with all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pipili. And now the Deputy Minister for the Interior is called to Stepma, Mr. Stylianos Petsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, we are ending a very interesting process, both in committee and in plenary, for a very difficult bill, with many aspects and many shareholders. I believe and hope that today, following the vote on the bill, will mark a step forward in the protection of animals we all love, in the reduction of the number of strays and in the reduction of the number of abuses that we all want. Ladies and gentlemen, the way we treat animals is an indicator of progress and culture of our society and this undeniable truth has been of special importance to us Greeks since ancient times. Already from Odyssey we see the special bond that can develop between man and animal in that wonderful scene of Odyssey's recognition by his faithful dog Argos. These feelings that illustrate the moment Homer describes are timeless emotions of devotion, love, humanity. In view of this time-consuming truth, therefore, the Ministry of Interior submitted to the House the draft law we are discussing today. With this legislative initiative, another commitment by Mr Mitsotakis is being made: 'No animal stray, no animal malicious'. Our aim is to set up a modern and functional legislative framework with a dual objective: firstly, to ensure the well-being of all animals and secondly, to limit the population of stray animals by means of a new effective system of adoption and by means of a new framework for rules of reproduction. To achieve this dual objective, this draft law is the result of a fruitful dialogue with all stakeholders, while during the preparation of the draft law there has been exhaustively long-term dialogue and account has been taken of comments and comments made in the context of public electronic consultation. I would remind you that twenty-eight thousand twenty-two comments were submitted during the consultation, which demonstrates the importance of this draft law. And proof that there has been a fruitful dialogue is that many of these comments have been taken into account for the final draft law before you today, while other comments, whether from the bodies or from the political parties, which were made at the committee meetings, have been incorporated into the legislative improvements that have been tabled this morning. The substance of the new framework is to introduce specific obligations for both pet owners and municipalities and pro-zootic organisations, as well as to highlight as a priority the well-being of our faithful friends. At the same time, for the first time, we have carried out not only obligations but also the corresponding resources to the municipalities in order to be able to carry out their work. In view of our central commitment not to have any stray animal and no malpractice, this draft law is based on the following axes, the five animal freedoms, the creation of a modern and operational national pet register, the establishment of an electronic booklet, responsible property, the safeguarding of the institution of the amateur breeder, the establishment of the pet DNA guarding and analysis laboratory to be kept at the Athens Academy's IAEA Foundation, the extension of the list of acts explicitly included in the provision on abuse, the creation of the ARGOS Programme for the resources and obligations of the municipalities as we will see below, the support and incentives to pet owners, a comprehensive framework for supervision involving scientists, representatives of the CEDEF, the Citizens' Coordinator and philosopher organisations, the improvement of education and information for the protection of pets and the creation of a digital application website. This twelfth horse is based on six pillars, firstly, on the philosophy of the bill. I should like to take the opportunity of referring to Mrs Tyrigoridou's report to disagree with the bill by a number of bodies, for various aspects, for different reasons. What does that prove? Failure or attempt to compose? In our view, the second reason why, as I said at the outset, there are so many shareholders of the problem and so different the perspectives that see the issue. And it proves that we had different views on different aspects of the fact that we did not join anyone. We have put above all the philosophy of a framework that we have said will achieve our main objective, reduce the number of straymen and reduce abuse. It makes sense, therefore, that prozootic organisations, somewhere else where the hunters want improvements, elsewhere the municipalities, elsewhere the prozootics or the contractors, or any other of the ordinary citizens who have pets. We have chosen to change the existing situation because it does not satisfy us, as the whole of society does, and we will therefore be addressing them first and foremost. That is why the bill aims at a radical redesign of the philosophy of management of stray animals and also of kept pet animals. The aim is to create an integrated programme for the management of stray pets, mainly dogs and cats, which will lead to a reduction in their population through a new effective system for the adoption and implementation of sterilisation throughout their population. At the same time, a comprehensive framework of responsible management of kept pet animals is introduced to ensure their well-being and harmonious cohabitation with the environment. As mentioned by many speakers, our country has unfortunately one of the largest populations of pet stray animals and urban tissue, but also in the region. The bill is therefore aimed at institutionalised cooperation between state, local government, scientists, pro-zootic organisations and citizens to improve the living conditions of pet animals and protect stray animals. Thus, landlords and strayers, animals for adoption, prozootic unions and organisations, veterinarians, breeders, shelters and public administration for the first time are part of a single official cooperation platform. Secondly, regarding the breeding of pet animals: it has been found that a large number of stray animals come from unwanted births of kept animals. It is the duty of the keeper of a kept animal to ensure its marking and sterilisation. Besides, the new law gives a clear incentive to this. However, as far as sterilisation is concerned, the owner may not sterilise the pet animal and choose, after having proceeded with the mandatory labelling of the animal, to send a sample of genetic material to the pet guarding and DNA analysis laboratory kept at the Athens Academy's Medical Research Foundation. In this way, it is ensured that even if a non-labelled pet animal has been abandoned it will be easy to find its generator and thus its owner, who will have all intended administrative and criminal sanctions. We are using the development of science and technology to ensure the best possible tracking and the irresponsible owner is faced with the consequences of breaching the rules laid down in this bill. So if this very important step is not sufficient, what exactly do those who oppose it propose? With regard to compulsory sterilisation, I think we have all agreed that the number of strays is too high. I also think that we agree, as many stray animals appear to arise from dormant animals. What's the solution? Shouldn't we do anything? But if we keep doing what we've done so far, we'll get the same result. A multiplication of strays, and living conditions of animals that have nothing to do with their welfare. That's what we're going to cure. Thirdly, with regard to the obligations of the municipalities: a central role in the implementation of the new framework is that of the municipalities of the country, and that is why the transfer of powers together with the corresponding resources to enable the creation of new, modern infrastructures and the supply of the necessary equipment is explicitly foreseen so that each municipality can implement an integrated pet policy. For the first time, municipalities are required to have a full operational plan for the management of stray pet animals, including the provision of veterinary care, participation in the adoption platform and the creation of an incentive framework for philosophical life. At the same time, they are obliged to operate or be enclosed with a sanctuary that operates legally to accommodate pet animals there. The municipalities are also responsible for recording, marking and sterilising all stray animals within their limits, which should set clear targets. It is noted that the new law contributes drastically to the elimination of unacceptable situations which, unfortunately, we all have at times seen as regards the functioning of certain refugee animals. Additional rules are now in place which both municipal and non-civil shelters must comply with. Every refuge obviously retains its obligation to have suitable premises and an enclosed veterinarian, and it must also have the necessary staff to clean up and care animals by at least eight hours a day. There are mandatory hours to visit shelters, daily and weekends, so that they can be accessible from all, as well as an obligation to keep up-to-date website with all information on the animals hosted to them. At the same time, the sanctuary ensures transparency and accountability for all those who operate shelters, including the municipalities. And to respond to what the SYRIZA rapporteur said, we are giving the two-year period of adaptation to legally available shelters today to adapt to the new context. The new framework does not concern, in particular, any higher standards regarding installations, but the conditions of operation. So it's easier to adjust, but not automatic, of course. With regard, in particular, to issues relating to visitability, the website, transparency, I think that we will all agree even on the already operating shelters that they need to be adapted to the new context. Since the transfer of such obligations also requires the transfer of resources, the "ARGOS" programme will allow the financing of municipalities with EUR 40 000,000 for the construction of shelters and the supply of the necessary equipment, as well as additional funding estimated at around EUR 15,000 per year from the central self-resources for issues related to the veterinary care of pet animals, the labelling and sterilisation of stray animals and related actions. Mr President, I would like to refer here to the fact that there has been a debate before and before about how many of the resources the municipalities received. To date, the municipalities received from the Ministry of Rural Development - the only programme that existed in the Ministry of Rural Development - for the stray funding of EUR 600,000. We say that, for operational needs, we will see to it that there is a permanent increase in the centralised resources estimated at around EUR 15,000, 000, following a debate with the CEDEFOP and with an indicative statement of the money spent by a small and medium-sized municipality. I believe that EUR 15 000 000 is a very large sum in relation to what was so far given to the operational needs of the municipalities. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the EUR 40 000 000 of the ARGOS programme relates to shelters and other equipment and adds to the EUR 43 000 000, which were the previous invitations to the "PHILDIMOS II". There responded municipalities and municipalities that cover a hundred and thirty - eight municipalities. However, I would also like to point out in response to what has been said, in particular, by SYRIZA MPs - Mr Arachovitis, Mrs Tlygoridou, if I am not mistaken - that the previous amount approved by the SYRIZA Government in June 2019 was EUR 20,000 000. With successive changes to the invitations we have reached EUR 43 000 000 because we really wanted to help municipalities and municipalities build decent infrastructure in order to accommodate stray animals. And now we will get a new call for an expression of interest of EUR 400,000,000 from the remaining amount of "PILADIMOS II". It is a different thing that the "PHILOPH II" programme from the "PHILIDIS I" programme, which is an extension of the programme. At the same time, specific obligations are laid down as the municipalities for the first time are called by the operational plan mentioned above to have measurable quantitative targets for the management of stray pet animals. For the first time, also, municipalities can motivate the consistent animal owners, such as the provision of voucher for marking, recording and sterilisation or reduction of municipal fees up to 10%. In order to ensure that the new law on the protection of pet animals does not remain empty, the draft law also establishes a coherent and representative supervision framework with the participation of representatives of the CEDEFOP, the Citizens' Co-legislator and pro-zootic organisations - and I refer here to the legislative improvements made this morning in terms of strengthening the participation of pro-zootic organisations in the framework of supervision. And since good accounts make good friends, we want to be clear that the Interior Ministry will closely monitor the implementation of the operational plan of the municipalities and can impose a penalty on those municipalities that do not comply with their obligations. Fourthly, as far as the registers are concerned. The bill makes full use of the new technologies for the benefit of pets, and this concerns both dormant and stray animals. The national pet register is a complete information system including the following sub-registers: Co-registering and monitoring of pet animals: Essentially it is a transformation and improvement of the existing database maintained by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It observes the entire dominant and stray dogs and cats along with the owner's data - their guardian. The medical and clinical data of dogs and cats, as well as other critical data, will now be recorded in the sub-material, so that they are directly accessible by the owner, as well as by any veterinarian. Sub-register of philosophical societies and organisations: In this sub-register all recognised and legally functioning pro-zoo unions are registered in order to have a clear public picture of pro-zootic societies, their contact details and the work they perform in collaboration with the municipalities. The necessary element for participation in the stray management programme and the adoption programme is the entry in this sub-registry. Refugee sub-region: All lawfully operated dog and cat shelters in the country are entered. Reservoirs can be operated by municipalities, municipalities links, philosophical unions and private philosophers. A sub-register of professional and amateur breeders: For the first time, it is fully recorded by breeders so that this public information is available to anyone who wants to have a pet. This registration of both professional and amateur breeders is intended to put an end to the illegal trade in pet animals, excluding those who are practicing such practices. Passport repository: Passports provided by the Panhellenic Veterinary Association to veterinarians are registered for disposal to pet owners. Panhellenic platform for the adoption of stray pet animals: The Greek patronage for the adoption of pet stray animals ensures full transparency in order to prevent the illegal trade in animals. Anyone who wants to adopt a stray dog or cat can choose from what he wants. This facilitates the adoption process and a stray cat or dog can find a hospitable family. In response to what Mrs Giannakopoulou has heard before, I would like to make it clear that it is expressly stated that, for adoptions other than maintenance and health care costs - and that, if the municipality or the philosophical - it is forbidden to pay any price. In particular for adoptions abroad, Union legislation explicitly defines the obligations of each Member State. The procedures established ensure compliance of our country with them. Subsistence of voluntary pet blood always based on the principles of veterinary science. This subtitle is created in which pet owners who voluntarily wish to place their pets for blood donation are declared. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u255	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u256	For the successful implementation of the new framework, access to the national pet registers shall have those who are necessary. From the municipalities and the veterinary services of the regions, the relevant Ministry of Interior, Rural Development and Food, Citizen Protection, Maritime and Island Policy, the veterinarians of the country to the owners of pet animals and the animals held by them. It's obvious that we don't exclude anyone, as it sounded before. This facilitates control mechanisms and achieves a continuous improvement in the policies applied, since all aggregates are available to the competent authorities as far as this is necessary. Fifthly, with regard to pro-zootic organisations and contractors, pro-zootic organisations that are registered in the respective register may cooperate with the municipalities in the context of the philosophy of the new law and mean and sterilise stray animals in locally registered veterinarians, if they wish to do so without financial burden for the same or to veterinarians of their choice, if they want to cover the costs. In fact, for the first time, they are explicitly given the opportunity to encapsulate themselves and to care for pet stray animals as their temporary owners. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Please, Mr President, your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u257	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u258	At the same time, they can participate in the pan-Hellenic adoption platform by posting ads for the adoption of pet stray animals. Likewise, philosophers can benefit from the municipal sterilisation and labelling programmes of pet stray animals, and explicitly provision is made for their right to care for stray animals and become directly contractors and then their owners if they so wish, following a simple and clear procedure. Furthermore, it is expressly necessary to allow municipalities to provide feed and medicines to pro-zootic unions with which they cooperate, while for the first time legally operating pro-zoo-zootic societies can be beneficiaries of financial support from the municipality or region, as is the case for other clubs, sports, cultural and other. The institution of the contractor, which provides that if a citizen finds a stray animal on the road, may keep it temporarily either as a contractor or as a permanent owner after adoption, but first informing his or her municipality or philosophical or registered veterinarian of the national register of pet animals. Ask, please, all of you, as I asked myself before, what was the framework for the intervention of all of our fellow citizens who ran to save animals from the catastrophic fires of the previous weeks in Parnitha, Barumbas, Acharnes and wherever the fire was like Evia or elsewhere? We all congratulated them. So now we are facilitating things that are done and putting them in a context. Also, a contractor can be appointed to an animal that cannot be accommodated in shelter and care until it is adopted. The contractor is an important innovation in the new law, which aims to improve the living of the pet until its adoption. It should be noted that contractors are also entitled to supply feed and medicines from municipalities. Sixthly, regarding the treatment of animal abuse, the new draft law clarifies the definition of animal abuse by mentioning detailed characteristic cases in order to avoid any doubt. Article 24 provides that the killing and torture of animals with the deliberate provoking of severe physical pain or physical exhaustion dangerous to their health, voluntary injury, as well as fights between animals, veterinarians and sexual abuse of an animal using objects for the sadistic pleasure of the perpetrator are serious abuses of a malicious nature and have, apart from criminal and serious administrative penalties. Moreover, let us not forget that this government has made a felony of the animal on the basis of Law No.4745 of 2020, the Vorides law which has been mentioned several times in this Chamber. The threatened penalties for killing are imprisonment of up to ten years and a penalty of up to EUR 50 000, and an administrative penalty of EUR 30 000 to EUR 50,000 per animal and an incident is foreseen. Also, the bad and brutal treatment of any animal, such as the drastic restriction of its normal movement, the unauthorised methods of education, unforeseen labour for the animal type, non-legal reproduction and voluntary injury with simple physical harm, are considered to be abused and punished, as are the abandonment, with imprisonment of one to five years and a financial penalty estimated to amount to up to EUR 18,000, while provisioning an administrative fine of EUR 5,000 to 15,000 for each animal, naturally depending on the seriousness of the offence. At the same time, in order to limit the decline of pet animals, a special procedure is introduced for any owner who wants to deliver his pet animal with an obligation to post a prior post on the pan-Hellenic platform for the adoption of stray animals in cooperation with the municipality concerned. In particular, it is noted that the animal's poisoning is part of the felony violations and gives rise to a sentence of up to 10 years and a penalty of up to 50,000 euros, while at the same time it also imposes an administrative penalty of EUR 30 000 to 50,000 per animal and a fine of EUR 50,000 per incident. The seriousness with which we face animal abuse phenomena is not exhausted in strict sanctions. We import offenders' register, so we can keep people away from animals proven to be dangerous. Any person condemned by justice for the abuse of pet animals cannot be designated as owner or contractor of pet animals for a period of at least 10 years from the final criminal conviction. At the same time, they may not be employed voluntarily or on a fee to an animal-related object. Some additional innovations introduced by this bill, which aim to contribute to strengthening our philosophical culture and improving animal welfare, are as follows: The competence of the Citizens' Co-Privat for mediation on animal rights and compliance with the relevant legislation, the training of the Security Councils on animal proscience and well-being, as has been emphasised many times by Mrs Pipili and other colleagues. In fact, I have heard very interesting ideas about issues relating to the cultivation of education, about prosperity. Another innovation is digital application and the website of accepting complaints of animal abuse. Such complaints shall be brought to the attention of the audit authorities. Furthermore, the explicit provision for the establishment and operation of enclosed park dogs by the municipalities, for the operation of cemeteries and cemeteries of dogs and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, by summarising, in the draft law under discussion, the government aims at institutionalised cooperation between the state - local government - scientists - pro-zootic organisations and citizens to improve the living conditions of pet animals and protect stray animals. A new philosophy is being established so that the necessary infrastructures and procedures can be completed in the medium term and its course will be evaluated. We believe that voting in favour of the bill is a necessary step towards the general protection of animals, the environment and nature. As the pressure caused by the climate crisis is multiplying, we have a moral obligation to protect our most direct residents on the planet, applying smart, functional and modern solutions. It is not just a question of culture, but a question of common sense if we want the planet earth to continue to be the common home of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u259	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is closed: 'New framework for the welfare of pets' - 'ARGOS' programme and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, fifty one articles, three amendments, the hotel article, and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u260	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u261	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u262	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘New framework for the welfare of pet animals — ‘ARGOS’ programme and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u264	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-15-S1-commons.u265	With the consent of the House at 21.00 noon the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, September 16, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Preparation of a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the area and on the implementation mechanism, state supervision and general conditions of implementation of the Transport Equivalent".
