ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 11-11-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the CV's proceedings, of Thursday 11 November 2021 as regards the vote in the entire draft law: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and other urgent provisions’]] Before entering today's agenda I would like to make some announcements to this House: The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Interior, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Political Protection, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 11-11-2021: "Move the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation". The Foreign, Finance, Development and Investment Ministers, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs and State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 11-11-2021: "Undoing the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation". The Foreign, Finance, Development and Investment Ministers, the Protection of Citizens, Culture and Sports, Justice, State, and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law on 11-11-2021: "Structuring Annex XV to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Bodies with regard to the World Intellectual Property Organisation". The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 11-11-2021: "Structuring the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and decision, pursuant to Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144(5)(b) of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal put forward by the President of the Radical Left coalition - Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras and Members of the Parliamentary Group, for the purpose of setting up an Examination Committee, for the investigation of public opinion-management operation, for the achievement of institutions and for the destruction of public money. The debate on the proposal for a committee of inquiry shall be held in accordance with Rule 144 and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. in accordance with the procedure for the generalised debate. In particular, as regards the procedure of the debate and in line with the recommendation from 4 November of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that Members' speeches should be organised in two circles of speakers. The debate will begin with a first circle of six priority speakers representing the six parliamentary groups on an equal basis, with speaking time for each speaker ten minutes without a secondary right. The first will be taken by a Member from the Group of the Radical Left coalition - a Progressive Alliance that has tabled the proposal, Rule 91(3), in conjunction with Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The second cycle, in application of the provision in paragraph 5 of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, will consist of twelve Members, namely the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, five Members, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance of three Members and one MEP from each of the other four parliamentary groups, with a speaking time for each five minutes, without a right of second. Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office has drawn up a single list in which Members of the Assembly will alternate with the Members of the House in order to respect the analogy of the power of the Parliamentary Groups. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups, as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, may also participate in the debate if they so wish. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the next parliamentary parties. The time of the ministers, if they wish to speak, is ten minutes of the hour. Parliamentary representatives will speak for twelve minutes, without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. after a speech by the President of their parliamentary group, they will speak for six minutes. Changes in the order of speaking should be made in exceptional cases by means of a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which Members belong, addressed to the Bureau and subject to the need for mutual change. Under the responsibility of the Parliamentary Groups, the maximum number of two hundred and two hundred must be respected at the same time in the Chamber, divided by Parliamentary Group as follows: One five of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, fifty-seven of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, fifteen of the Change Movement Parliamentary Group, ten of the Communist Party of Greece, seven of the Greek Parliamentary Group and five of the MEP.25. I would like to ask the House whether this proposal is acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u2	The proposal was unanimously accepted. Let me continue and say that, after everything I have said before, the debate will be followed by an electronic roll-call vote on the proposal. I would also like to inform the House here that fellow Members or members of the government who cannot physically participate in the vote either on the basis of a mission abroad or on health grounds, will vote by letters bearing their signature and the reference to the matter, which will be sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of this House as it stands. In this case, before the vote, letters shall be delivered to the Bureau, stating the name of the Member or member of the Government who shall vote by written vote. The letter will be addressed to the President of Parliament. The delivery of letters will be carried out by accredited colleagues from the Members or members of the Government who are to vote in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u4	What are you asking for, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u6	Procedural matter or anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u7	Procedural.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u8	If it's procedural, you have a minute to develop it for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. For the sake of substance and procedure in particular of the debate, I would like to make this point to my fellow parliamentary representatives. We are discussing today, in accordance with Article 68(2), on a proposal from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the establishment of a committee of inquiry on issues relating to information campaigns and surveys published. The debate, as set out by SYRIZA, is to be a committee of inquiry which will examine these issues from 2019 onwards. The President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister has proposed extending the time of the committee since 2015, as well as her mandate - in committee - to be in a neutral language, so that we do not have the person to receive and have the result of the conclusion from the committee itself. Because we have heard various public parties positions - others which are in agreement with this proposal, but which have been calling for further enlargement, from 2011 onwards, and others which, such as the Civic Reformation with Mr Tsipras, initially agree and, ultimately, retreat from this position - I would ask for reasons of the proper organisation of the discussion and configuration of all parties' positions, to be placed for a minute - and to give time to my fellow Parliamentarians - and to say whether they agree with the enlargement of the time of this committee and whether this procedure should be in line with this procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u10	Is that a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u11	It is, of course, a very important point of order, because the positions of the parties themselves depend on this position. Therefore, my colleagues, the Parliamentary Representatives, would ask that they be placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u12	It's understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u13	... if they accept this enlargement and the proposal of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u14	It's understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u15	We should get in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u17	Mr Ragossi, you would like to speak as a parliamentary representative, I imagine, on this matter that has been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u18	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u19	I'll give you a minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, it is not only out-of-court the proposal made by the Parliamentary representative, but also the New Democracy Parliamentary Group as a whole, because you know much better than we know that there is a specific agenda, which cannot in any way be differentiated and, indeed, with this trick. What, however, hides behind what we have heard from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative? Two conclusions are hidden. The first is that it does not believe in the role of the other opinion as established by the Constitution and for the first time provided for the possibility of a minority being recommended and that Parliament, with a reduced number of Members, decides to set up a committee of inquiry. Because if they believed in this process, they would not make these theoretical, in fact, unfounded opinions which are also expressed today. Secondly, if there were any evidence and if the New Democracy really had to ask for such a committee of inquiry, it would have done so already. The second conclusion, therefore, is that all this is actually done for the sake of impressions of a parliamentary group and a government which is in defence. And he's in defense, because he doesn't know exactly how to explain all of what you're going to hear then that they've committed themselves with the decisions they've made as government in recent years and with the Pecha list and the poll case. The proposal we have made provides for the possibility for the committee of inquiry to go back to the investigations where it wants to do so. The substance, however, lies elsewhere. And the essence is that at the moment the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis must apologise to the Greek people primarily for the fact that it has made progress in these decisions which, as well as the dismantling of public money, constitute, but also the assumption of basic principles of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u24	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u25	As should be known, at least, we from the first moment the proposal was tabled by SYRIZA, with a party announcement, raised the issue that it should go back and not back from 2015, but since 2011. Of course, in practice this position, which we have said, has been rejected by all the other parties. In practice, I say not in words. Now, from there on, we are not involved in this debate today, because we cannot be practical. There has also been a great debate in the Conference of Presidents whether or not the plenary can decide. What dominates is that the plenary cannot decide. From that point of view, we will see in the committee what can come about. In our view, this'response' of the New Democracy today does not make sense, and it is for reasons of impressive reasons. We politically - because that is the issue, politically - are firm in going back, but now, as things have worked out, there is no point in this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Heta, you have the floor as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is interesting how the debate really starts, and I think it is a little hypocritical on the part of the government. Look, we are in favour of any committee, composition of the committee of inquiry, we are in favour of as long as they want to take it, from where they want to put it. The question that arises is why you did not do so in writing or more officially, so much time before us to prepare for today's day. So what does that say? It declares a hypocritical attitude on your part. Unless you're in search of an alibi, put an ad, say "Ali is looking for an alibi so that the New Democracy does not vote for the current recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry". Because the subject of today's debate is too serious for the media, because I think that in our country we have never experienced such control of the media before, we are not enjoying the debate, we have not even started. Clearly, we are in favour of any committee, for any time, but to look at the substance and to remain at the level of the circumstances. A little serious, especially from the government's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr Scandalidis has the floor for this particular intervention as a parliamentary representative on the part of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I believe that similar practices afflict the functions and procedures of Parliament and all the democratic principles that exist and identify the functioning of the parties within Parliament. It is a political proposal that seeks to remove the possibility of opposition to take advantage of the second opportunity that another, on the basis of the Constitution, would give it the opportunity to carry out a committee of inquiry and, if you like, to turn the committee into a majority today against the SYRIZA proposal. These things, Mr. Theochari, are funny. Unfortunately, it's funny. Come to the committee that will be set up by this House if you are to vote on your opinion and to broaden its subject if you wish, by unanimous decision of the committee, which will have that composition, to discuss this proposal for a committee of inquiry made by SYRIZA. Our political views - since it is a political debate - will be discussed during today's day, and I hope that the committee will still have the will to bring forward such a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u30	I will give Mrs Bakadimas as the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25 so that there is no complaint, since I do not see Mr Gregoriadis here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis is coming, but I will be here in order not to delay the debate. We also think there should be an in-depth investigation. We said it all along. But we cannot say that today the move of the New Democracy is clearly an impressive move. Clearly, responsibility must be explored over time, but it is not the time nor the time for the government to try, once again, to disorientate. Let the debate begin from there and show the courage to widen the investigation time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs Bakadima for Mera25. The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has the floor on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the Conference of Presidents where it was discussed how this process is to be done today, the issues were discussed in detail, and in substance they were fully clarified, so that the agenda that has come today is this and that it is not another one. This is the procedural aspect of the matter and it is absolutely clear. Of course, the New Democracy in plenary may have the right to raise the matter again. I would like to add a political signal to the debate that is now taking place, the procedural debate, and henceforth. It is clear that the proposal made by Mr Theocharis seeks to depreciate in its essence the proposal for a committee of inquiry, which has been made by the Officerial Response. Because this proposal is precisely because we are within the two years of pandemic and the special conditions for limiting rights, restraining and reducing public space, the public sphere. It is a special stage and a time when the country has been found, it has been governed by an act of legislation on the issues we are discussing. This is not a conference on relations between the political system and the media, with polls, with public speech. It is therefore precisely on the basis of the proposal that Mr Theoharis's proposal is to lose the ball - let me say this - to move away from the issue of the particular historical context in which these very bad practices have been developed by the government and to make a theoretical, philosophical, time-consuming debate, which is obviously no longer forbidden and from which no one will be sent. It is therefore a matter of political intervention, precisely in order to renegotiate and perhaps denouncing the proposal of Officerial Response, and it is therefore absolutely unacceptable. I repeat that this debate has also been repeated by the honourable President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, who is here as well, and we have come to the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. Mr Theocharis, you have the floor only on the request that we do not open a new circle, I would ask you to warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u35	For only thirty seconds, Mr President, precisely because the matter was raised in very substantial proportions and some people tried to present it as something different from what they are. I believe that my speech has been vindicated by the positions of the Parliamentary Representatives themselves. The positions of almost all parties have been fully cleared, with the exception of the Change Movement, but it has made a statement that it agrees with the expansion of the time of the examination and therefore has a clear position. I hope that Mr Scandalides will see it as well and adopt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u36	What a poaching!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u37	There's no poaching! Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u38	Calm down, everyone expresses themselves, but there were no reactions earlier. Please finish, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u39	I understand that it hurts. I have only taken the floor for two sentences by the former President of Parliament, whom I respect and honour, and by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. It is clear from the statements that the isolation of SYRIZA has occurred, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it has led them to such positions. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's why. Determination, Mr President, is a reduction in the scope of a committee, a reduction in the time it is dealing with matters, depopulation, and the mandate to pre-pay the conclusion, not what the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is asking for. It is an essential debate and I think all the masks have fallen and have all been placed as the Greek people should write them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u40	Following this dialogue, we enter the procedure provided for in the agenda and call on Mr Georgios Katrugalo from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. It is historic today's meeting because we are energising a provision of the Constitution after its revision in which the majority of the New Democracy Review House joined the proposal of the proposed parliament, a majority of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u42	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u43	Indulgence to the truth is a problem that you seem to have lately. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He is afraid of the New Democracy, and that is why we had this initial position from Mr Theocharis, which was only not procedural. In supporting the proposal for the revision of Article 68(2), Mr Tassoulus and Mr Javaras had presented it on its right side as a promoted means of parliamentary control which strengthens the possibility of minority control over the government. What is New Democracy telling us? That the controller must tell the auditor how to exercise his control, precisely because he is afraid, because he is intolerant to the truth. And this does not seem to be the only way to undermine the debate on the substance of the proposal on the Committee of Inquiry. A report forty-eight people, journalists, university professors, artists on malicious infidelity against the others has come to Parliament. Peak and Dog on the same subject, which doesn't come to be discussed. What, then, can we conclude from this behaviour? That New Democracy fears a development similar to that of the Kurts case, with that of the "Curch 2000 case" Netanyahu, where the former Prime Minister of Israel is referred to because he showed a preference in a specific news band in relation to another. I'm not gonna talk about a list of Peacas because it's not a list of Peacas, it's a list of Mitsotakis. This is an unprecedented press manipulation operation with a double purpose: on the one hand building a profile for the Prime Minister with expressions whose pity has no precedent in our political history. From the well paid and manipulated media, it has been called Prime Minister Cheetah, constellation, Churchill, Kennedy, Moses. The second feasibility is obvious take news, which is produced in abundance by the government, not to be controlled and passed as truths. The last of my sector, foreign policy, was yesterday's Government Representative at the occasion of the participation of Mr Mitsotakis in a conference on Libya that is the first time that this has been done while Alexis Tsipras as Prime Minister had participated in 2018, and it is well known, at a corresponding conference on the International Conference on Libya in Palermo. Two legs has our proposal. One is this proposal to investigate the 'Metsotakis-Petsa list', which, as long as you go, has no precedent in our parliamentary history. Money was taken in that they closed down or they didn't exist. Indicatively, the radio station ‘BIMA FM’, which had no programme anymore, was financed. A total of two hundred and thirty-nine websites received money while not included in the Media Online Register set up for this very reason, so that there would be transparency in the possibility of financing these instruments. There were cases of unprecedented pheasyness. The site EnLefko.gr, which is a white store site, was funded because it was misunderstood as a backdrop of the homonymous radio station ‘En Lefko’. But this is not the main issue of prudence, which one might say is incompetent. There was an obvious political feasibility of strengthening those stations which, in the view of the Government, could be manipulated. For example, why should two pages of Mr.Menios Furthiotis be financed, which were not even informed - in one of them it was retrospectively so that the site could not be completely shelled - and that a journalist like Mr. Serafim Kotrotsos might not be funded at all? A hit case of similar misappropriation of funding with a range of the instrument is the ‘Recipients’ newspaper’. She received 30,000 euros for her printed version and just 10,000 euros for her website and another very friendly newspaper to the government that has a corresponding website, "PHILELLETEROS", received 60,000 for the newspaper and 120,000 euros for the website. This funding, of course, does not save resources that are unreasonable. FILTEROS was closed after this funding. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we have other cases of financing for companies that were in bankruptcy. That is, basically, public money was given to a Danaides monkey. It has been estimated that only 1% of the funding was allocated to the media of the opposition. And precisely because there was no way of rationalising the distribution of money, Mr Pets refused to tell us the criteria on the basis of which this money was given, saying that this was taken over by a private company, which ensured this rich distribution to the parties. In fact, in the only attempt that he tried to explain why he did not give money to the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO', he actually agreed what I am saying, that for the sake of a line in the newspaper, because he did not agree with the government, the newspaper was not financed. What did he say? "May we participate in a campaign that has a basic slogan "Home We" in a newspaper or an instrument that characterizes this slogan "we stay humiliated"? In other words, the newspaper was punished because it had a different view from the government. That is why - and I will put forward the corresponding statements in the Minutes - we do not only have a complaint from the Union of authors of the relevant practice. We have, and unfortunately the country has also been exposed by your actions, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to many complaints from the competent bodies of the journalistic international associations, the Council of Europe and the European Union. The "Publishers without Borders", who have the responsibility for Index, for the list of freedom of the press internationally, have not just degraded the country by five positions, but explain why this deterioration has been made: "Dangerous cocktail for freedom of the press. The Conservative Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has attempted directly or indirectly to closely control the flow of information in the context of its efforts to deal with the horn pandemic and the refugee crisis." It is not SYRIZA, it is not 'DOCUMENTO', it is not 'AUGY', it is not 'the editors' newspaper'. It is the international organisation which has as its task the protection of freedom of the press. The Council of Europe now and the body for the corresponding process, the International Institute of IPI: "Instead of being based on the principles of objectivity and fair treatment, it appears that the criteria for which the means of granting state funding were chosen during the period of the Coronovirus pandemic were at best arbitrarily and at worst aimed at punishing the media that are transmitting news that do not flatter the government." As time ends, we also had similar positions from the competent Commissioner of the European Union, Viera Yurova, to a question from the Member, Mr Kouloglu. I'm going through the second part of our proposal. It's about polling. We are not against polling companies in general. But we want the law to be applied. It is characteristic that the self-regulation process provided for in the 2007 Act is a non-profit-making civil company, in which companies themselves are supposed to carry out control. The law is empty. We do not have a single case of activation of this arrangement. That is why we have asked the Committee on Institutions to consider a case of polling, which has been strongly opposed to a recent, then, opposing, 'EUVIRAMETRO' survey and which we have also had doubts as to whether it has already been done. We are not the only ones who have a problem with whether this company operates in accordance with legal procedures, but also with the techniques to be followed by polling companies. And KINAL has expressed similar doubts. And there was an incomprehensible attack by the representative of "OPINION", a few days before the death of the late Phofis Gennimata, which characterized its criticism, was unconnected, which is amazing that he is trying to censor, defamate and extort a company. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, contrary to what the parliamentary representative said, our proposal wants to look into this case, to see if the law is applied, but on the other hand, it allows unrestrictedly backwards if this is decided by the committee, to be examined before 2015, as requested by the JRC, as requested by the Change Movement and we have no objection. The wording is clear, to investigate the case of "OPINION POLL" in introductorys, as well as the existence of other public-private companies, whose owners maintain parallel activities through which they directly or indirectly receive funding from the Greek public and the wider public sector. Public opinion polls must take place. The number of polls every week in Greece has no precedent in Europe or elsewhere in the world. Parliament must consider how these polls are carried out, if they indicate intention of manipulation. It's a question of democracy. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I think that your fear shows you precisely your reluctance and indulgence to make real control, to shed light on how the authority attempts to inactivate and favour another authority, the fourth of the press. Unfortunately, you seem not only to be dangerous to the place on the fronts of the pandemic or the economy, you are also dangerous to democracy. I think it's time for you to leave now! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u44	And we thank Mr. Katrugalo. Until the Stepma has been prepared, I would say that the time that Mr Katrugalos spoke, that is, thirteen-and-a-half minutes, will be the maximum time that the Bureau will give as its ability to speak and the rest of the first speakers who have the ten minutes. Mr Cairidis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the representatives of SYRIZA - at least the two who have already spoken - are trying to convince us about this, the truth is that we are not here today for either a polling company or a pandemic information campaign. It touches the limits of the comic book for the government to be indicted that it financed a company to appear above SYRIZA in a poll, when all polls of all companies throughout the reference period of the SYRIZA proposal agree a little bit - much the same, i.e. the two-digit difference in favour of the New Democracy with the Civic Opposition. Equally outside political reality are the charges for our information campaign. I will not go into the essence of SYRIZA's complaints against us, against a fully successful campaign that saved lives and achieved a performance far above the European average and which was played by many representatives of the media sector, as it included over a thousand hundred media throughout the country, inclusive, with transparent criteria and respecting the provision of 30% of expenditure on regional instruments for the first time. Mr Katrugale, there is indeed no precedent with our list and practice, because in the past - and certainly not by you - a list of public advertisements has not been published, you have avoided it as the hell of the lavender! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It has also been examined and responded repeatedly to these calls in the recent past five times - I recall, five times! - in the context of regular parliamentary scrutiny, several times in the discussions between the Political Heads and with all the elements at the meeting of the Committee on Institutions and the Transparency of Parliament on 10 April 2020. After all, the substance of the appeals will be re-examined and answered with comfort and completeness, even with the repetition of the information already submitted to the Committee of Inquiry if it is set up. The main thing for us here is to understand the reasons for today's debate. Because we are talking about a non-theme that we have discussed in detail within and outside the House and which, to a large extent, as I have already explained, clearly reaches the limits of the comic book and which, I am sure, as I will explain below, is not about the Greek society. I believe that we are here, ladies and gentlemen, mainly for three reasons. The first is institutional and, in principle, commendable. In principle, it has to do with the decision of the New Democracy to strengthen minority rights and to broaden the possibilities of parliamentary control over the respective government, starting from the present. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like to remind you, Mr Katrugale and the House, because he has attempted a smuggling that has really surprised me, because as a constitutionalist, but also a man who is following the events you should be better informed - I think it is more due to negligence than to fraud - that today's procedure is unprecedented and is being activated for the first time on the basis of the recent Review of the Constitution, which enables the opposition to proceed with the 2/5 votes in this House to set up a committee of inquiry twice during a parliamentary session. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this revision was our proposal during the Parliament review in 2018 and which we supported then - the current President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulas - was the rapporteur of the New Democracy Officer - towards the omissions of some people, including to remind you, Mr Katrugale, of the then majority of Mr Dousina's SYRIZA, who was sanitized along with all the others as a shopping list in the minutes of the Parliament to remind us of the language of the country that he is operating. We insisted, and now SYRIZA takes advantage of what was happening at the time. We passed our proposal at the time and voted as a majority now to change Article 68(2) of the Constitution to the revision parliament resulting from the July 2019 elections. We are here today with the majority vote if you did not understand that. Without the majority could not be passed on to the Review House. So, for the record, I would like to remind you that the prolongation has given us the battle for the opposition, and already since the 1980s, to remind some old people here from KINAL. In the debate at that time in the late 1980s, Mr Scandalidis - you will remember it - the then scientific community of constitutionalists divided itself into the interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution, although eminent members - of its members were drafted in New Democracy's view that the minority could activate the prediction. Finally, the opinion of the then parliamentary majority of the PASOK who was afraid and could not be set up by a committee of inquiry with a proposal from the New Democracy. The result has so far been that this top parliamentary control tool is only activated at the expense of past and not current government majorities. In other words, whenever committees of inquiry were set up, they were mostly set up with a view to post-parliamentary control of the previous governments. Today, for the first time, we are giving the possibility of controlling the current government majority from the Opposition and we are proving that we, the New Democracy's party that founded the Third Hellenic Republic, the best, stable and most inclusive that the place has ever known in its history, remains a guarantor of the institutions and their strengthening clearly, without tricks, tertiary or asterisks. We are consistent with a position which we first and for a very long time only took place in the 1980s. Consequently, today's debate and the current process could not take place without our political perseverance and institutional consistency, and all this in contrast and in absolute contrast to all of SYRIZA's anti-institutional behaviour, especially in the years of its governance between 2015 and 2019, when the rights of the parliamentary minority were systematically and repeatedly violated, as we and the other parties of the then opposition were very often denounced. The second reason why we are here today is the obvious political weakness and confusion - I would say - of SYRIZA, the roaming of SYRIZA. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with a paradox that is unprecedented for our modern political times. The government, instead of being damaged, is being strengthened. Its political sovereignty, rather than weakening, is expanded in relation to the outcome of the July 2019 elections. How does SYRIZA respond to this paradox? With an elementary self-criticism? With a minimal adjustment and correlation with the major currents of Greek society, away from ideologies that are touching and inciting only minimal and marginal minorities? The answer is no. SYRIZA refuses self-criticism and instead of adjusting, returns to the extremes of the early government, but also to the pro-government of the past. Instead of adulthood as a big party that exercised power and aspires to exercise it again, it refreshes and returns to the popular facilities with which it has gone in the past and became a big party, but which are in disparity not only with the demands of the times, but also with the ripeness of the Greek society caused by the crisis that preceded it. This is the basic political substance of today's debate. SYRIZA is in weakness and attempts through Scandalology, however wasteful and often comedy, to find a substitute for the weakness of his political positions and arguments and overall his opposition tactics. Who thought of focusing opposition criticism on the polls of a company - who, who, brain? - and accuse the Greek journalists of not doing their job while according to SYRIZA there are so many problems? Bearing in essence positions and proposals beyond the unbearable complaints, SYRIZA chooses one non-theme. Looks like they believe in SYRIZA that's what they think in Austria. Regular Pridelo. After all, SYRIZA's proposal leaves no doubt. It begins with the reference to Sebastian Kurts, a friendly target for the years of SYRIZA, who has already chosen to go with ignorance and idealism, with gods and demons, with oversimplifications, misunderstandings and provoking ignorance of the international beggar. If Kurts hadn't resigned, wouldn't you have submitted your proposal? Ladies and gentlemen, I must make it quite clear that the targeting of the polls will not change the polls. The targeting of the media will not enhance SYRIZA's political fate. The Greek people did not vote against the SYRIZA government three times in 1919 because some journalists misled him, not even today much of the SYRIZA voters themselves disagree with the positions of SYRIZA in the Greek agreement, in public security, in immigration and so many journalists do their job. SYRIZA doesn't do his job, not the journalists. The Greek people don't eat spoon. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, there is also a third very unpleasant reason why we are here today about the repeated, systematic and clear hostility of SYRIZA to the media and polls. The text of the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry is extremely insulting to Greek journalists, whom they are conceived as enslaved in government power. This is a deeply undemocratic and dangerous concept to which SYRIZA returns by reminding us of the attempted extra-institutional diversion which it attempted in 2016 in the famous competition for television licenses, which was fortunately annulled in the Council of State, the war that took place against specific media and journalists, against whom he smuggled, but also a series of other types of interventions that he repeated during his term of office. SYRIZA attempts a vulgarity. He knows that the media and journalists have been devalued in the eyes of part of the public and that their targeting is "selling". In a society where a part of it is prone to conspiracy, even at risk of human life now with pandemic - and we see this - SYRIZA does not hesitate to conspire and plunder on the lack of confidence of many citizens towards institutions. He does not care that this is how he feeds unbearable, irrational populism, an anti-systemicity that leads nowhere but the capture of our political system that fuels and the respective aesthetic and anti-political forces at the extremes, which he at the same time likes to denounce, but in fact serves. The permanent incubator of SYRIZA is closely followed by all disease over the extreme right-wing Mitsotakis. Paediatric argument of resigned politicians who are unable to do the hard work. Of course I do not have to refer to his own polls. I won't. The other Members will do it. I'm skipping all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u46	Let us finish, Mr Colleague, in order to comply with the rule we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u47	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I thought I had twelve minutes. Anyway, you're right. Kyriakos Mitsotakis made a proposal, which Alexis Tsipras seemed to have accepted. Then you changed your mind. SYRIZA refused to investigate the previous period of 2019. What are you afraid of? Why don't you want to look at these too? In a process which does not defy the constitutional possibility, it is a real pity that this opportunity is being lost for a more substantial debate on the institutional shielding of our democracy, which is particularly necessary today with all that is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u48	Last sentence, Mr. Courides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u49	Now listen, 'cause we heard that too. I would like to reply to Mr Ragosi, because Mr Raguss has done a wicked thing. On the one hand, it tells us that there is no evidence, and if there were any evidence, we would propose them to extend the investigation, on the other hand, if we propose the investigation, we violate minority rights, at the same time that opposition parties with their official announcements - to remind the KINAL Parliamentary Representative - are in favour of expansion, as the KIC has said. So this is where we're going crazy! On the one hand, if we do, we violate minority rights, on the other hand, we do not do so because we have no evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Catherine, close up because you're making me very difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, therefore, by saying this: The New Democracy will vote against the SYRIZA proposal, which is lacking in content, but will function institutionally, consistently and consistently in its history and in the fact that it has proposed this provision in order to allow the minority to exercise its right and the rest will be discussed in detail in the committee, where the truth will shine no matter how many people do not want it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u53	No, Mr. Catrugale, I can't give you the floor. I don't give you the floor, don't get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u54	But you haven't heard, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u55	I'm not giving you the floor, you're not entitled. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, on personal grounds I would like to place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u57	On personal grounds, Mr President, he wants the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u58	No, I cannot give the floor, Mr Ragosi. If you would like to be a parliamentary representative. I'm tracking the process. I consider that there were no personal issues to give the floor. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u59	There were. Mr President, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Catrugale. I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, it's personal in the sense...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u62	It's not personal at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u63	Listen to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u64	Read Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure and you will see that there is no staff. The reference to issues of your name is not personal. Destructive or irritable if any, there is staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u65	Listen to me, I'm not talking about irritating. He didn't excite me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Kegeroglu, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Courides didn't devour me. He corrupted what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u68	There's no staff, Mr. Catrugale. Finally! Have a seat. I say it, there is no staff, and everyone knows it, and everyone has heard it in the Chamber. Finally! It doesn't mean you have any staff because you think. I am listening to the procedure, and I honestly hear it if I ask your colleagues, even your parliamentary representative, if he sees a personal issue, he will not find it. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking for the first time after the Revision of the Constitution a proposal for a committee of inquiry which is now, in accordance with Article 68(2)(c) and the right of opposition and can be exercised up to two times during the parliamentary term. In the first place, I would like to make it clear that, firstly, we will vote in favour of the setting up of a committee of inquiry proposed by the Qualified Opposition to investigate the operation of manipulation of public opinion, the decommissioning of institutions and the smuggling of public money. Secondly, we would also vote for the proposal announced by the New Democracy that it would be tabled and wondered today why it did not say any word because it was not tabled for the length of time. Thirdly, we will be positive in committee since the facts show the need to broaden the limits by a plenary decision. And this time the question is to SYRIZA: Is the public declaration still in force on 14 October that it accepts this enlargement? This is dictated by our attitude - positive - to the Committee of Inquiry, by the political position that we have shaped in recent years 'all in light', by voting even for our own periods or for our officials, unlike New Democracy, as SYRIZA has demonstrated today, as has been shown in a previous examination that refuses transparency by hiding behind gray excuses. Mercy to both of you! On the subject of the committees of inquiry and pre-review, there are no more regularities, but clear positions and substantive procedures that will overthrow the conception that has dominated and shaped in Greek society that they are often made for political reasons and purposes rather than unfairly. I would remind you of two cases: the political persecution of Andreas Papandreou by the government of Constantine Mitsotakis and the coalition, and even the choice to prosecute ten political opponents from the Tsipras-Kammenos conflict. In today's crisis situations, however, with the citizens' very low confidence in politics, as is reflected in the confidence in vaccination, there is no room for political forces to refuse to investigate the real facts and facts and to reveal the truth or to complete its investigation. I would point out that many of the proposals for setting up committees of inquiry or pre-reviews, regardless of their subject matter, have as common denominator the investigation of events or possible offences related to informing and controlling citizens. It is undeniable that the good of information for citizens is often attempted by many sides and centres to turn into a lever for manipulation of public opinion. The importance of the media in the formation of public opinion is a key issue linked to the substance and content of democracy. It is therefore a serious matter to try to control or influence the media and their human resources, indirectly or indirectly, either by means of structured and drunken procedures and tenders or by opaque awards and grants without criteria. The heart of the democratic civilization is directly affected. The work of bias, the lack of pluralism and the attempt to manipulate the information has often seen it play from different perspectives. We saw it with SYRIZA and his orchestrated attempt to set up a competition for channel permits and manipulate the procedures for the creation of a party channel, a case that, after Parliament's decision, has been taken indirectly - all this case - on the path of justice. But not just. The way SYRIZA managed public television with exclusions of journalists and producers shows that he did not have transparency and shared. We have now seen and seen it with New Democracy, which, on the occasion of pandemic, by opaque advertising campaign procedures, has distributed funds in a biased manner, affecting all concepts of ethics and pluralism and waste of public money. In not a few cases, instead of showing the good of the vaccine and the need for vaccination that was and is undeniable, citizens were bombed and bombed with the eviction of the state and its officials. We have seen it and seen it even today with the polls in our country on SYRIZA - remembering the notorious polls by election, but also by New Democracy. There is no shortage of strange and scientific unscrupulous or even tempted polls from few - fortunately - companies that accept this role. They bombard the citizens' crisis and try to form public opinion in favour of obvious or rather more of their secret orders. SYRIZA and New Democracy finally have the same concept of manipulating the information but they use different methodology and practices. It's the two sides of the same coin. We all remember in this Chamber the public debate and confrontation of media support in the pandemic period. We have described it as essential to inform the citizens, but also to ensure the sustainability of the instruments which have been affected by the pandemic and, of course, - and above all - the preservation of jobs. At the same time we insisted on the need to respect rules on the financing and distribution of advertising by applying criteria and absolute transparency. We had warned that non-acceptance of our proposals would lead to investigation procedures. And we are here today, after what you have done without transparency and criteria. The Change Movement reminds me of the support, independence and emancipation of the instruments proposed as criteria for strengthening and financing: First, viewing, hearing, traffic, visitability depending on the type of instrument. Secondly, a real number of workers. Thirdly, the application of the provisions on regional instruments. And other criteria. We haven't heard. The government insisted on the desirability of developing relationships with media. Nor did the negative example of the previous government, which was supposed to have started procedures to regulate the television field, and we saw where it ended. Unfortunately for the New Democracy there are serious indications of opaque media funding operations. The government has never answered the way in which funding was made through the different financial amounts to questions put to Parliament, public and institutional. He gave the lists without the corresponding amounts. Why, how, who, and how many? Party and associations, journalistic organisations from Greece and Europe have asked questions but they have not received answers. The issues of political transparency and political integrity are crucial issues in particular today that citizens are being misled in total against the political system, directly against the government but also with the other parties. The closed and client system of governance and decision making, which has been re-established and strengthened, has again turned the citizen into a customer. For a great change made by PASOK and Andreas Papandreou was that the Greeks who, not only had shaped and placed themselves in the customer's place, really turned him into a citizen, with rights and procedures that could get him out of the margin that had fallen for many years. The ultimate state with an alibi of pandemic seems to serve many times more of the "logues" and the few and less of the citizens and the public interest. The phenomena of an interactive part of entrepreneurship with executive power and the last with the media are affecting the public interest and must be addressed institutionally. A modern and favoured state, a European state, sets out full transparency rules and functions to strengthen the positive role of the media, pluralist and objective information. The Change Movement every day gives the struggle to inform the established word and the responsible attitude to the benefit of the people and the country. We support the institutional role of the media which will not be driven by the irreplaceable role of regional and local media. We remain committed to the principles of pluralism, pluralism and transparency and objective information. After all, PASOK took the lead in the creation of the independent authority of the National Broadcasting Council in 1989 and of the constitutional safeguard in 2001 and - I remind you - of its reopening when it had ceased to operate lately. Only we need support - which we have not seen - in order to function to finally have a strong role to play in constitutional terms. We established the 'DENMARK', the financial prosecutors, the anti-money laundering principle and many other independent authorities. We did not hesitate first to 'estimate' even our officials for whom there were even suspicions or shades of evidence that they were involved in illegal acts. We have agreed and have taken the lead in the setting up of committees of inquiry or other committees for the investigation of cases. New Democracy and SYRIZA as a government did not follow the reform path that we opened up. You have chosen the method of controlling their institutions and functions and limiting free and impartial information. Unfortunately, too, on the issue of transparency and examination, you are stubbornly denying the investigation of cases when it comes to your period. It is unacceptable that this should continue today, especially for the New Democracy which, when the committee is set up, will have a majority of the government. It doesn't mean. It's unacceptable. The vote on a proposal is inconsistent with everything you have said all the time. It goes without saying, therefore, that we and we insist and will show our position on the full investigation and negotiation of any case involving a political person or any case in general, regardless of party origin under the Constitution and the laws. It goes without saying that for one more reason. That is precisely why it requires the public interest and the people's mandate to safeguard their interests. Our position 'all in light' is stable. Transparency everywhere for everyone. Unscrupulously and without exceptions. We will vote on the proposal for a committee of inquiry, as I said at the beginning of my position. And we think that all parties should have done so, as should any other proposal relating to transparency and openness of public affairs and of functions. It is the one way to regain citizens' confidence and strengthen democracy and its quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u70	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the New Democracy MEP in Piraeus and Isles Mr. Ioannis Melas is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 16 to 18 November 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u71	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Ioannis Giokas has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Since the first moment the issue of investigating cases on the Petsa list of the polling company "Opinion Poll", the C.E. He agreed to the setting up of a committee of inquiry using the corresponding provision of the Constitution which, on the basis of the last revision, allows a committee of inquiry to be set up by a minority. This, of course, does not mean that we have great expectations that something positive will come out of this committee, as it did not come from other relevant committees in the past. Because what usually stays from the Committees of Inquiry is endless meetings, fights offering a lot of food for disorientation, political gossip, television show, and in the end are the findings - soup that actually cover cases. At best, some superficial issues may arise. But they always cover the essence of the interlocutory between the political system, the governments, the urban parties on the one hand and the big business interests on the other, of course, which are also the media owners. We are very afraid, not to say that we are sure, that the same scene will be repeated now. We do not only support this in the bad precedent of the committees of inquiry. We also support it in the attitude of the parties and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the other parties in the legislative intervention submitted by the JRC. For a year and a half. Because what SYRIZA is asking for today with the Committee of Inquiry - with which we agree - is the investigation of the Petsa list of the JRC. He had asked for it by way of a legislative proposal, with an amendment, for a year and a half. An amendment that raised the question of the control of advertising expenditure for the pandemic, in which, as we all know, there have been well-known situations of funding for nonexistent websites and for which, of course, the government still does not account for the criteria, on the basis of which this allocation has been made. What was the fate of this amendment tabled by the JRC? It was rejected by the government, as was natural and expected, but also rejected by SYRIZA and all other parties. And it is important to remind the Greek people today of what this amendment was for. Firstly, it provided that messages relating to the protection of public health, protection against serious risks, a threat, such as a pandemic, could in no way be transmitted in terms of advertising campaign for payment. In all these cases, messages should be transmitted, registered or posted according to the average mandatory and completely free of charge, and this should relate to all instruments. Secondly, it provided that in all other cases, where there was a need for advertising expenditure on the promotion of the activity of Ministries, supervised public and public bodies, the former JRCs, this advertising campaign should be carried out on full transparency, on objective criteria, without unacceptable exclusion, without any subsidy for non-existent instruments which form a conciliation procedure. Thirdly, it provided for it not to be essentially at the discretion of each government, that any kind of public advertising expenditure should be published in detail by amount and media on the website of the General Secretariat for Information and Communication within 10 days and that the situation should be delivered to the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament. Fourthly, it provided for the practical application of the above regulation to ensure that if the above conditions were not complied with, the relevant contracts would be cancelled and the amounts paid to the media would be searched. In addition, the omission of publicity and the avoidance of a search for the above amounts in the event of annulment of the relevant contracts also entails the persecution of the responsible natural persons and the threat of imprisonment. Finally, the amendment provided for the compulsory filing of data within three months to see for at least the ten years at least where they went, which means and under which criteria the Greek people's money was paid. What was the attitude of all of you towards this amendment tabled by the JRC? Both the government's attitude, which is supposedly cut back, says the investigation of these cases and the SYRIZA's attitude, which said he's cut off to control the Peca list? With the JRC's amendment, the question of the Pecha list was solved by law within five days. You turned it down. That was your attitude. You have all rejected it and, indeed, you have rejected it twice, because obviously there were provisions and provisions within the amendment that were unscrupulous to both of them. So what prevailed in the end? The bipartisan politics is on the agenda. This prevailed at the end, because you all want to maintain an opaque mechanism of relations and interaction with the media, because all of you want there to be a mechanism for manipulating the Greek people and embracing the current government policy. That is why you rejected the JRC's proposals, which is why a perforated and convenient legislative framework is maintained, whether in the media or in the case of the publiccivil companies, where there could also be corresponding restrictions and control rules. He said before Mr. Katrugalos about the gap that exists in relation to the polling companies. And how did SYRIZA's four-year rule cover this void? Why, for example, could not polls - carried out and must be carried out at the request of the public or public sector bodies - be carried out by university institutions or by a public research centre? No, you couldn't solve those elementary things. This, of course, does not mean that the problem is solved by legislative measures, and so on, regardless of the fact that you even deny these basics, so that you can have the field free. And it is not solved because the problem is much deeper and has to do with the composition of the urban governments, the urban state itself and the various business interests, which are of course the media. The Government of New Democracy has literally taken it off. Apart from the infamous Petsa lists it reached the point in the middle of a pandemic with the public health system in red, with shortages of staff, with schools and public transport in suffocation to bring law, a year ago, the well-known Lebanese law, giving the canalarchs a whole dose of the one they had to pay. On the one hand, you consider the deprivation of the public health system to be a luxury, at a time when negative records break one after another, on the other hand, you do not consider it a luxury to support canalarchs, big businessmen, to support clinical guidelines instead of the private health sector, in order to join a comprehensive state plan to address the pandemic, but also all the other needs that exist, diseases, therapies, surgery, which are now left behind with tragic consequences for the health of the people. In fact, all this support is legal, because with the laws that you have passed, for example, the law on the rental of health services in private clinics, these services are being compensated by the state and in fact they are not. So this provocative support of the state in capital is the other side of the anti-Fraud policy that breaks wages, needs and rights and which, in order to enforce all forms and all sorts, requires the authoritarianism of repression, the authoritarianism of bans, but also ideological manipulation and media self-government. That is what we are living today. For days SYRIZA were there similar phenomena? So were there phenomena of what is described in the proposal for the committee of inquiry? Of course there were. And strange polls there were also amendments for certain businessmen - mediators, there were also a conversion of ERT into a government philosopher there was with propaganda that had nothing to be jealous of from propaganda for the days of New Democracy. And don't tell us again that you've put order in the media landscape, because this scenery, the media landscape of midwife, has your own stamp and signature. Because when the infamous Pappa law was passed - Mr Pappas - and we told you that there could be no objective information when this is exclusively in the hands of the major businessmen, then you as government said 'the channels are sports for big purses'. Rest now with the big wallets, as we bathe them, as the Greek people wash them. Because these large wallets define information on the basis of their own interests and cannot be seconded to information as good and as a right as it should be and not as a commodity by who owns and owns these instruments. Like, also, when we told you that there were no insurance barriers to a single elementary pluralism in the media, what did you do? You voted with New Democracy and KINAAL on the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, which everyone today admits is a decorative instrument against this immunity of the canalarchs, especially at the expense of the JRC, on the basis of the evidence published at times. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. Because the proposal for the Committee of Inquiry has the title 'Objective manipulation', the conclusion is that this manipulation, otherwise less, has been served by all of you. And the question of manipulation is, above all, a matter of trying to extremize sovereign politics. Why is it or is it not manipulation that antique measures or memorials were previously voted by all of you in the name of the salvation of the people? Is it or is it not manipulation that dangerous aggressive agreements with the United States before SYRIZA and today by New Democracy are being baptized'sensitive'? Is it or is it not manipulation to lose a worker's life in the port of Piraeus and make a multi-day struggle and not just to silence himself and not to play as a news story, but what was moved in those days was the scotch of the company and from all the media and government and supposedly opposing? Of course, no committee of inquiry will be requested, because these are the flagship investments you have all supported and all supported. From this point on, Mr President, the people must be rid of the scandal if they want to get rid of the policies that are tormenting them, from this rotten state, from the governments and parties that support this state of the few, the state of capital and which you are all serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. The speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin by the fact that we, as a Greek Solution, have in the past tabled two proposals to set up a committee of inquiry which were not promoted by the President of Parliament because, he claimed, would not be supported by the other parties. One of our proposals was to examine the nullity of the Prussia agreement which Skopje are now repeatedly trespassing on, among other things, because of the following statements by the President of the ANELs, as they are made by the media that we are going to table in the Minutes at a later date. Firstly, as the President of the ANLL said: 'Some people in the government or elsewhere have taken them fat to affect the world to pass the Prespecies Agreement'. And, secondly: “How can I throw the government down with my MPs who had all been bought? My MPs have all passed to SYRIZA." These statements, as well as many other facts contained in our proposal, since, through the investigation of the committee we have called for, they have proved real facts to make the Ambassadors' Agreement self-evidently invalid in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. It would obviously not have been voted by a hundred and twenty Members of Parliament, as required, since the New Democracy that applies the agreement would not have consented to the agreement despite its initial objections - the governments in Greece have unfortunately emerged in national sports - nor the SYRIZA who launched it, and of course will not want the charges of the President of the ANELs to be investigated. But is it not unacceptable that such charges should be suspended? Isn't it serious enough for them to be investigated? Do you not think the Greeks will find out if the Prespecies Agreement is self-justly void or not? Apart from that, should the citizens not know whether there was any pressure on Germany? Also, if the price for the delivery of Macedonia's name was the prolongation of the delayed 95 billion for after 2032? How, then, was it certain that the President of Parliament would not vote in favour of this proposal by a hundred and twenty Members after the shocking elements that would be heard here and for which, of course, all Greeks would be informed? Is it some people don't want to hear all this? The second Greek proposal concerned the appalling crime in Eye, which should certainly be blamed for. Our great question here is why the President of Parliament decided that the Members of the New Democracy and other parties would not agree, which we hope will be answered at some point. Continuing, in addition to the above, it should, of course, have been a long-standing committee of inquiry for the crime of Memorandums and the PSI if not for the 2010-2015 period or better 2004-2015 at least for 2015, especially since New Democracy claims that in the first half of 2015 it cost Greece up to EUR 200 billion - it is a huge sum - accusing the current president of Mera25. So why didn't the New Democracy return its own proposal to set up a committee of inquiry that it had at the time? Because it is now the same government and is no longer interested in citizens learning the truth? Let us not forget that in 2015 the third and worst memorial was signed with which both of the previous three parties were guaranteed, one of the obligations of which was the establishment of the supreme foreign property to which our entire public property was transferred in 2016. We have not tabled a proposal here, although we have said so many times in this House, because it would in no way be supported by the complicit parties of the Troika, which did not just sign the third memorandum, but have completely destroyed our economy and literally enslaved the Greeks, all of us. Is it true all the more important to our country than the current examination proposed by SYRIZA? To what benefit did the exam of the "Papiggopoulos construction" instead of the "NOVARTIS" scandal from which so much money was lost? To what benefit did the Greeks benefit the Examination Grandpa? Nothing at all. So it is reasonable to conclude that all these examinations, like the present one, are being launched for the eyes of the world, which is therefore treated by the regiment parties as a foolish mob. Furthermore, this proposal was made on the occasion of the revelations of the political scandal of the Chancellor of Austria, where a well-known publisher of the country wrote the following, as we will testify in the Minutes: "They are the ones we are. The highest political and media stadiums of Austria are largely rotten.” In this regard, in addition to the obvious similarities with Greece, who was really concerned with the scandal in Austria? Has any committee of Parliament been involved or the prosecutors' office, justice and police were due? Don't we have such institutions in our country? Is this not a matter of justice, as is the case in Austria? Where is the independence of justice which guarantees a country's democracy? On the other hand, it is no coincidence that the media have one of the lowest confidence-indicators in Europe, and unfortunately the political parties and, more generally, politicians have even lower. In particular, according to a study of 'internews', the press and television have a confidence index of less than 15% in Greece, while the 'REUTERS' is only 28% trusted by the channels as far as the news is concerned, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Just 28%! However, as a Greek Solution, we experience our complete exclusion from almost all the media, while no institution pays attention to our constant protests and appeals at the PSE. In relation to media manipulation, the Belgian newspaper's report says that the government controls 80% is revealing that freedom of the press in this field is unfortunately in the last positions in the European Union. We'll file the corresponding table in the Minutes. Among other things, the Belgian newspaper's publication reads: "In Greece, the media owners are mainly shipowners and businessmen. The briefing mission is of secondary importance. The primary objective is the possibility of blackmailing power, whatever it is, in order to pass legislation favouring their interests, which may be a bank loan or a political career." The transaction is simple. Government favors in exchange for a positively pertinent press. The political power that does not play this game runs the risk of uncovering scandals in the newspaper headlines or undermining a bill by the media. This explains that Greece belongs to the worst "students" on the list of countries that respect freedom of the press. In particular, as regards the Petsa lists now, it would be better to refer to all the media financing by the government, whether directly or indirectly. In this regard, with a simple record based on scattered articles in the bills and amendments, there are actually over 80 million euros. So it's more than 42 million written by SYRIZA, although we won't get into details here. What matters is that it has not been used properly for information purposes in relation to the pandemic, but mainly for the promotion of the government and the irresistible manipulation of citizens with electoral, obviously, objectives. Continuing, in relation to the award of Greece's promotion to its multinational lobbying in the 'EDELMAN' via ENTERPRISE, as stated in the proposal of the examination, it is interesting to investigate why the contract was signed one year after the award. We would like to remind you here of the expenditure of EUR 500,000 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on informing citizens about the Prespecies Agreement, but since the agreement was signed. We have informed the citizens, that is, after we signed the agreement. We discovered it from the figures on the use of the 2019 reserve provided to us later, considering that it was another media support, this time on behalf of SYRIZA who is protesting today. Closed to the issue of polling and possible manipulation through the "Opinion Poll" is something that certainly needs to be investigated, since it is considered that polls are used to manipulate voters. In particular, polls are accused of now working to create herd psychology, where the less informed citizens or those who are not able to think critically and conflict views are usually drafted not by the real majority, but by the one presented to them. In other words, they think, since one party has 40% and the other 4% then the party of 4% is not doing anything right so no one can hear it. That's how the simple world thinks. In addition, polluters use various other tricks, such as discouraging the selective sample, etc. In any case, we agree with the request for this examination, although we feel that it will not end anywhere else, if we assume, of course, that this is not a coexistence of the government with the opposition. However, we reiterate our request for the three examinations we referred to at the beginning of our speech, for the Treaty of Ambassadors, for Matti and for the period of the memorandums, especially in 2015, which, according to the government, lost EUR 200 billion. These are money, a lot of money, which will be missing, if they really have been lost, by the Greek people. We also believe that something needs to be done with the continuous intimidation, with terrorism better, of citizens because of the pandemic, of the racist division that is being promoted, of the censorship of scientists from the media and of social media that are not subject to any principle, while we have been completely excluded as a party. It is a disgrace to a country that has raised the democratic city! It's a shame, a national shame! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are debating today, namely the proposal of the SYRIZA to set up a committee of inquiry to dismantle public money for the manipulation of public opinion through well-known lists, but also the guided polls, is an extremely important issue, as this is a phenomenon that strengthens the very foundations of democracy, in order to formulate any casting, any stone of democracy and transparency that has succeeded and managed to remain standing up by the oligarchy - mass deception - "Metsotakis S.A.". That is precisely what this importance has made us as Mera25 to be positive from the very first moment towards SYRIZA's proposal, which we shall also be voting in favour of. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest with the citizens, with the people we represent in this Chamber, our fellow citizens who are following today's debate or who will be informed of it during the day. We should be honest and admit that - let me use the term, it is funny if we manage to overcome the tragicity that exists in the real world - the House is supposedly convening in the context of democratic legitimacy when the triangle "Metsotakis S.A.". - mass deception - polling companies have, in fact, cancelled all democratic legitimacy. As MERA25, we are in favour of Parliament investigating every major political issue, since, of course, the criminal prosecution of political persons is leaving Parliament and entrusted to the new body that we propose to set up, the body of prosecuting political and business crime. At every opportunity we oppose and demonstrate the need to put an end to it, to stop the division of powers with Members taking the role of judge and interrogator, a role which they must not and cannot continue to play elected representatives of the Greek people. We should leave justice to the judiciary and legislative power. I must also give this opportunity to reiterate that, in the context of the investigation of important political issues, we are asking - and we continue to do so with urgency - for the memorandum dossier to be opened, as the House has previously opened the 'Cyprus file'. Yes, well, to open the file of mass deception, which obviously also use well-established polls to deceive. At the same time, however, one cannot and must not overlook - at least we as Mer25 do not - that the root of evil is but the fact that the political system of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the political system of all parties of the Memorandum Arc, has allowed the predators of this country to monopolize the ownership of the media by making them the means of mass deception, because it is no longer the information they offer, it is deception, manipulation and guidance in the worst way of public opinion. After all, the nature of predators is to use the means to cheat - as I said before - the citizens, but also to hide their crimes against them. Is it wise, then, to expect that these instruments, with this aim and in this way of operation and the property regime, will be paid to have objective polls? I would say exactly the opposite, ladies and gentlemen. It's extremely handsome and naive. And I think no one's making this mistake. With a view to combating the fraudulent means of mass deception and limiting the action of the predators and the oligarchy, Mera25 has tabled an integrated proposal for socialisation of the instruments. Of course, it's a proposal that won't be heard or written in any blogs from the goodies on the Pecha list, which won't even go through the top of a newspaper. That is why our position remains that if the means are not socialised, if their ownership is not passed on from the oligarchy to the municipality, they will continue to cheat - not just with false polls - they will continue to mislead and direct public opinion. And that is something that no committee of inquiry - no matter what happens, no matter how much we do - will not be able to cure it and correct it. Ladies and gentlemen, in general terms, the democrats and the Left in particular, we have no reason to deal with - and we should not even do so - with polls which can never be objective. And that is because their questions themselves, as well as the answers they put to citizens, are not and will never be, ever neutral. Question - question, choice - option is systematically strengthening the dominant ideology, ultimately directing their own responses and, of course, the final results and findings. Each of these polls distracts citizens from action and self-organisation, turning politics into a field of predictions instead of an action field, strengthening the position of the media, at the same time weakening the citizens, the municipality and democracy itself. Besides, the polls directed are nothing new. None of us, nor our fellow citizens, fall from the clouds, listening to a debate about them. In time, polling companies were used by occupants to disorientate, create climate and give a line. Let us not forget the exit Polls before announcing the results of any election campaign or the findings of the polls as we approach the elections, which, according to which party they govern, direct public opinion, present the relevant findings. Of course, we all remember how far the final results of these elections are from what we saw presented around 18.00' or 19.00', just before or when the polls are closed, with the relevant exit Polls. In any case, no one overlooks the dominant view that a poller will give the result that will be asked by the poller as long as he asks questions and the context of the answers in such a way that it will ultimately work for him. I will close, repeating that we support the proposal for the examination submitted by SYRIZA. We want the media file to be opened in the House. However, in order to solve the problem, in order to hope for democratic information, not to see the daily circumvention of pluralism in all the media, it is necessary to abolish the present ownership regime of the media and their immediate socialisation. We are here, we are ready for this debate as well, and we have tabled our proposals for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to have such a debate? If so, let's start it today, because we're already late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u77	We too thank Mrs Bakadima and the consistency of time. The President of the Parliamentary Group and Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas, speaks. Immediately after - to be informed - the President of the Greek Solution has asked for the floor, Mr Velopoulos and then - at least so far - the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, unless a request for a party leader arises, then Mr Scandalides will go back. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u78	Despite the fact, Mr President, that we are in the midst of a tragic situation with the daily record of incidents and the collapse of the public health system, we are not underestimated by any matter, whether small or larger, or by the present, of course, debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. On the contrary, we are making use of every opportunity, even when we are going to deal with issues that you choose, gentlemen of the government and of the Anti-Population Officers, to set up another fight, a disorientative and hideous fight that at best causes the people who are tested by this new pandemic wave, which seems to be more murderous than the first and second together. There is no excuse, because we are not at the start of this adventure or, of course, at the end of it. We have already counted twenty months since the pandemic began and around this issue has accumulated scientific knowledge and experience. However, we are in a worse position. It is no exaggeration to say that especially in northern Greece, in all areas from Lamia and above, your situation has escaped and downwards, in the rest of the country, the situation is getting worse. We don't. It's called it every day the records that break one after another. Doctors call it, nurses, who, despite being exhausted, continue to give a titanic battle to save human lives. But you're your violin. You insist on talking about a pandemic of uninvasive people, even though it is right to talk about a pandemic of disease of the invaders, because the vaccinated ones can also get stuck, but only or especially the uninvasive ones are severely ill and at risk of their lives. But you say it like that because it suits you to hide your responsibility for the low rate of vaccinated because it is also due to your own inadequacies and refluxes. It suits you to focus only on a measure of the treatment of pandemic, of course important, but of course, by stirring up the well-known caramel of individual responsibility, in order to keep all your other responsibilities unavoidable. Because if you'd heard the JRC from the first moment or even later, because it's never too late, things would be, we believe, obviously better. You even come to say with a lot of nerve, with cynicism better, that doctors will be forced to choose which patient will be invaded. It is a confession that your health policy, the commercialisation policy that you have all followed, has been bankrupt because it is responsible for the mess of public hospitals. If the pandemic develops in Lernaia Hydra, as Mr Mitsotakis recently said, this is because your Government continues to take no steps to support the public health system, which it has retreated, with the necessary recruitment of personnel needed and exceptional funding. Because your Government, even now that the public system is being tested, refuses to proceed with the ordering of large private health establishments, which continue to treasure, taking advantage of the gaps in the public system. Not to say how many millions of euros are collected every day for rapid test diagnostics and they should have been free of charge for everyone in every workplace and under the responsibility of businesses. If the pandemic develops in Lernaia Hydra it is because your Government has taken no measures to protect and reduce the risk in large dispersion areas, such as public transport, such as schools, schools and large workplaces. Indeed, in the midst of a pandemic in schools, you also merged departments and at the same time, for micro-party reasons, you leave out of measures and substantial limitations and churches. Because your government has not organized a scientifically documented information campaign. And when we talk about a serious information campaign on vaccination, we do not just mean an advertising campaign, like the one with the Pecha lists, which we are talking about, but an information campaign that will also touch the structures of primary health care, that is to say, in health centres, in multi-medical hospitals, decentralised doctorates, which with modern infrastructure and all the necessary staff will be interconnected with family, schools, schools, nurseries, workplaces, sports places, homes, homes, any other institution. All that the JRC has done is not only to bodies, structures, places where it has the same responsibility, but everywhere from morning to night, for too long with information campaigns, initiatives, interventions and even a solution to problems presented to our fellow people. These are issues which are not even raised by the media. Your government has closed their ears, does not take advantage of their health proposals and clubs. It has not worked out a universal programme of public free vaccination with all effective and safe vaccines, taking advantage of all available drugs, with free preventive precaution before vaccination, applying pharmacovigilance, with constant monitoring of vaccines for early intervention in any side effects, with a scientific recording of the results of vaccination, with a state-responsible vaccination campaign, exhaustive information and answers to questions with substantial and personalized information from the Greek people. How different would the situation with vaccination, if, for example, the establishment of a family doctor as a key element in the composition of the health centres' scientific staff had an essential role? But that's what some people will tell us, it's not happening. These are silky. Obviously, as far as the current needs of the people are concerned, it is utopian and impractical. Because it is only possible for you that it is of interest to the interests of private capital in the health sector, as in other areas. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to come more specifically to the issue of setting up a media committee of inquiry - everything is of course related to each other - we, as we have already said, will vote on the SYRIZA proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, without that implying that we have deceiving that something positive may arise from it. And we are not delusional because we all remember very well and the fate that the JRC's amendment had a year and a half ago, which dealt with several of the issues raised by the proposal for a committee of inquiry today. What was our amendment, in general, anticipated? It provided for the free promotion of messages in all the media, literature and electronics, when these messages were related to public health, for full transparency in all other cases, but also for research into where the Greek people's money has been spent over the last 10 years in the context of state advertising. Do you want me to remind you what your stance on the JRC's amendment was, namely, what the New Democracy Government's attitude was, which takes control over the previous years, but also the SYRIZA's attitude, which calls for control over the list? You rejected it, too, in the New Democracy and you in SYRIZA, and twice. Why? Because obviously none of you were in favour of an amendment with exactly such a content. Because you all want to maintain this situation. This is essentially a non-transparent mechanism of relations and interoperable overall with the media or a part of it. And you all need such a mechanism for manipulating the Greek people, a mechanism with a mission to vomit your anti-popular policy. Of course, we do not think that such a matter is resolved by some legislative arrangements, but even these are denied. It is not really resolved to the extent that the issue is much deeper and has to do with the formation of governments, the State itself, with the great business interests between them and the various media. You ask for the criteria with which 42 million euros were given to the media, the well-known Petsa lists, for the advertising campaigns for the pandemic. We agree that they should be examined. But at the end of the day, the individual government policy is a list of Pechas in the sense not only of stable and often provocative funding, but also of privileges enjoyed by large companies among them and media companies. For example, irrespective of the legal or illegal nature of the matter, was it or was it not a challenge in the midst of a pandemic with hospitals having kneeled because of shortages, with people stacking in the means of transport due to sub-financing and so much more the New Democracy government giving the canalarchs a whole dose of what they had to pay for the permits? Was it or was it not challenged by the New Democracy Government at the beginning of the pandemic by the law on the rental of health services in private clinics, which even had the courage to baptize it and order, to increase the amount that the State had to pay to private entrepreneurs? Is it or is it not a challenge, for example, that the resources of the Recovery Fund will be directed mainly at the large groups of the so-called green and digital transition? But do not challenge us, and you of SYRIZA, who suddenly discovered acts of manipulation of public opinion, as if this were an exclusive prerogative of the Government of New Democracy. All, but all, to date, governments in their governance period are engaged in this practice. In other words, in trying to arouse their anti-population policy, by using different means at times, as are polls, and indeed some of them are eyeballing. How else will they mislead, trap, incorporate labor, people's forces, if they do not make use of many useful tools, over time, for this purpose? We don't have to go too far. Was it not an act of manipulation of public opinion that the unequivocal, almost identical, projection at that time that you were all voting for the memorials in the name, supposedly, of the salvation of our people? The fact that the agreements with the United States and France all called them defensive, while they are, carabinata, aggressive? After turning the country into a war brigade, what was it? The fact that you were claiming to follow each other, in his name that you were supposed to save the pensions of the next generations, at the same time that you broke up social security, what was it? Even the concept of progress has brought it to your policy measures, which turns us decades back by removing basic workers' rights, rather than moving forward towards the achievement of modern, current needs. Where have we arrived? Tell the Prime Minister that his government's policy, that is, policy that guarantees profits and privileges to a few, sacrificing labour, popular rights, is progressive. What's all this? Aren't these manipulation actions? Not to mention what they are not saying, because it is not projected, such as the recent news of the death of a worker at the time of work, news that was absent from the media or presented, as he wanted, by this company. And since I'm talking about it, I'm also talking about making a parentheses. Indeed, many and various things have been heard and said at the port of Piraeus lately. As "RIZOPASTIS" today reveals, there are approvals of recruitment by political offices, for those who run the test, also, to whom to get to work, to engage political persons, and even to compulsory registration in an employer union, as a prerequisite for recruitment. In fact, as the workers are responsiblely denounce, they see around them and close to the parties and family rule, that there is no longer just the "train of silk" anymore, there is the "port road" that starts from Koundouriotou to Piraeus and arrives to the SPA. And indeed, the complaint centers interest, since Koundouriotou houses the office of the State Secretary for Commercial Shipping, Kostas Katsafandou. And if we follow the course of the interlocutory written in the press, we see wholeheartedly that operator manager at the Piraeus container station at the "SPA SA", is someone named Nikos Katsafadas, while personnel manager at the subsidiary "COSCO DPORT" is also someone Michael Katsafandos. And because, in the port, they say the distances are long and they need to make sure there is a good and well-known driver trainer to take them, again, randomly and he is also called Nikos Katsafandos. And coincidences don't stop here. Why another car circulating in the workplaces is supposed to be security checks at the port, but in reality to do catechism to workers, to protect their company, not claiming, etc., drives it one called Theodoros Katsafandos. [[Laughing - applause from the wing of SYRIZA]] Especially after the successful strike, there are things and miracles. The conclusions all yours. I'm presenting for the Practical and relevant papers with the data, so that you can check and at some point answer us about the synonyms, because many Katasafads are gathering there. That's the end of parentheses. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] You see, the complication has too many streets. Apart from avenues it has narrow paths and is connected with a thousand strings with its power, its state and its mechanisms, and unfortunately these also happen with all the Governments, so that I do not talk again about the absence of any visibility of the JRC's positions, which sometimes reaches the limits of censorship. Of course, it is hypocrisy to say that the people's right to objective information can be fully guaranteed as long as the media is owned by great private interests. But the property regime, the big wallets a SYRIZA minister had said, no one touches them. Not even the one who told them, that is, he touched them at all. So, these public opinion manipulations, like you're preparing to write a report of ideas on pan-Hellenic or high school, notice how you throw it, because stitches exist for all your fur. The entire so-called left-wing government of SYRIZA was not just an act of manipulation of public opinion, it was much worse. It was another disgraceful act of manipulating all those who have resisted in previous years with honesty, who have been on the streets against the memorials, against the European Union and your famous allies. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting on the proposal for an examination proposed by SYRIZA, but this information about the public, which is a social good and objectivity of the media as a precondition for the democracy that you say in your proposal, when specifically in the information, they do not convince young children. But where's he going? The people will understand sooner or later that one of the thieves, two thieves, three and his bad day. The sooner he understands it, the better for him and the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba, too. After the Step is settled sanitaryly, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u80	Mr Secretary General of the JRC, with these Katsafads we are now too. The Greek Solution proposes a change of the name of the port of Piraeus to Port Katsafados or to port of Katsafados. In fact, unbelievably Greek! If, of course, what the Secretary-General says is true, it is the Greek reality. Minister, although I was expecting the Prime Minister of the country to be with us today, because it is a major issue that we are discussing this next week, let us leave that now. You probably want the Prime Minister not to suffer the suffering of criticism. I understand that, but you have an enthusiasm in relation to the committees of inquiry. You are hostile as a New Democracy with the Committees of Inquiry. Because I'm saying that. We made a proposal for an examination of the Skopje treacherous agreement, you never brought it. We did you for Matty, you never brought her. We did you for the 100 billion of Barofakis your own, Mr Gerapetritis, MPs and ministers, have never brought an examination to the channels. What is the coincidence in all these committees of inquiry? You know? That it's all about the SYRIZA that you're going to run, and it looks like it's all about. Symptoms. Three exams for SYRIZA to twist him, to abdicate him, because you have made all of these election statements, post-elections, Mr. Gerapititi, no younger. Of course, we'll go to the limitations if there's an election and the story's over. In any case, we, Mr Gerapetiti, Minister, want to offer the Greek Parliament. The Greek Solution wants to inform the Greek people. The Greek Solution differs as a party organization. As a movement of Greek patriots never commentes on the result. I have listened carefully to all the speakers. Everyone talked about the result. We're looking to find the cause, because if you want to cure a problem, you're looking for the cause and you're treating this. So the speech by the President of the Greek Solution will be in itself for the cause of the problem and not for the result. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Mr Gerapititi, it is indeed admirable to uniformize the media, a uniformity in relation to government policy. The TV world is vertically structured, but also the printed press in relation to the New Democracy. However, I will say what Chomsky said about this uniformity of media, Mr Gerapitritos, because I know you admire Noam Chomsky: 'Every dictator admired the uniformity and obedience of the media'. That's what Chomsky said. But here, we came to inform the Greek people, we came to explain to him how the New Democracy managed to control the media in two years. To find the result - I repeat - let's go to the cause. How do governments - and New Democracy today - get involved in the channels? Money directly as advertising. How do they get? Why is no one talking about self-evident, how money is given to the channels? Has anyone said it in here? Let me tell you, Mr. Gerapetiti, the New Democracy. It's through banks. Banks give ads to sites, newspapers, canals with command, parentheses, adolescents, state agencies, PPC, ELPE, DEPA, which the government once again commands these agencies to do advertising. NRV. Again, the government is commanding advertising. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A request. I would like you not to motivate me, ladies and gentlemen. Money on channel sites in exactly the same way, not only in newspapers, but also in sites, by municipalities, regions owned by most of the New Democracy, spots, advertising entries are given again. How, then, do the New Republic and the channels get intertwined? I'll tell you now. Money for research into polling companies is given by the channels, pays the government, and polls are carried out to be broadcast from the channels, so that there can be influence over the world, the man who is going to vote. The canals, however, also have other businesses that do other business. Those workers, therefore, are ‘feeded’ through the State either by public works or commissions so that they can ‘feed’ their channels backwards, which will ‘feed’ the government's polls and percentages. It's just things. So here we find out where the pathogen is. Businesses that take public projects often have canalarchs. In order for these businessmen to take it, therefore, they must be persuaded to be advertised and supported by the government. Let's go to the papers. The same goes for me, from all the previous ones, with ads on newspaper sites. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, please very much. I'm not going to go on. I'll get off the Step. I apologize, but I can't go on. Please. I have never done this in Parliament, not just for any party president, but for a parliamentarian. I can't hear a turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u81	The President's right. Please do not motivate yourself to be focused. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u82	Banks, PPC, ELPE, DEPA etc. How are the governments, the government and the journalists now interceived? We have this new fruit too now. You're obsessed. Journalism became a clerk with the canalarch, the newspaper and the owner of the site. Hundreds of journalists coming out in a panel work in ministries' secretaries, press offices, local and regional offices. Journalists have their own sites. I'll give an example. That's true, of course, but I'll tell her. Minister, there is a specific journalist who broadcasts to the "MEGA" - all right, his right - who has a site and his site "feeded" with 700,000 euros and all day terrorizes the world from his show on the pandemic this afternoon. Coincidence, you'll tell me. I can't believe the man does it because he doesn't believe it. He believes it. And I say: is it possible for these journalists to be committed to freedom of the press? Oh, no. So newspapers, TVs, radios, journalists, everyone lights candles in the New Democracy. I'm saying this to understand, because if there were no, Mr. Gerapetritis, New Democracy, all the means and the journalists should have invented it and you know why? Because the advertising pie, Mr. Gerapetri, is over, it's too little now. The state, the government, keeps the channels, the radios, the newspapers and all of them up and gives them a lot of money. The media are attacking, Mr. Gerapetti, vulgar against opponents and it has been done to me as well. Reporting, news. But so, Mr. Gerapetiti, gentlemen of the government, you confirm Oscar Wilde. Bad - we say - journalism confirms its existence, based on the great Darbian principle, the survival of the worst, and unfortunately survive the worst journalists and not the good ones left behind. To understand the downhill of journalism in Greece, I will say something, Mr. Gerapetritis. Mr. Thomas Soto, do you know him? He's one of the biggest French journalists on French state television. Do you know why he quit? Because he had relations with his wife or his dealings with Mr. McCrone’s communication office and he resigned from state television for moral reasons. In Greece I see ministers drinking coffee with journalists, I see ministers smuggling with them, acting with them. I'm not saying it's wrong to have relationships with journalists, but at least to respect the pretexts, to respect the fair conception of journalism. So while respecting the credibility and impartiality of the free movement of ideas, it should be the journalist who takes a picture with the Minister to resign from the means in which he works, because he creates problems for the rest of the community and the Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Benefits and benefits, Mr. Gerapitris. You are therefore benefiting from all means of information with money, a lot of money, millions of euros. Mr. Gerapitritis, you are a fan of the ancient Greek secretariat, I know it personally. So I'll tell you what the great Aristotle said about what I say benefits and benefactors. They love their benefactors more - listen - than the benefactors. What exactly did he say? "More love their benefactors, "that is, do you love the means more than their benefactors and know why? Once you fall, those instruments that you today support and support you, they'll kick your ass. You're going to be beaten by the same people who support you. Remember what I'm telling you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] By the means, you scare the world. First New Democracy with 48%, 40%, 45%. We'll talk about the polls in a few minutes. We'll say what we say as a Greek solution, though. What do we think? The only way to defeat fear, my dear Greek who is now watching the House is to say a great "no" to fear. No, we will not give up the path of the principle in favour of a fair Greece, we will not violate the rules that prevent Greece from rising higher, to manifest what it can manifest, to have the success it deserves. That's our difference and it's qualitative. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr. Gerapititi, gentlemen of the New Democracy, how does it prove that the New Democracy controls the channels? We'll prove it to you now. National Broadcasting Council, PSE, results of 19. We're still waiting for them from Mr. Kutrumano. They've got a lot of work to do. They're working nighttime. Percentage of reports: by 49% dedicated to the New Democracy and 7.7% to government officials. That makes us about 60%. Even the 40% you took don't keep up. You have 60% attendance on all channels. Details of the ERR. The Greek Solution of 2.6%. I won't say about the others. How, then, does it prove that the channels are controlled by New Democracy? New Republic: 'ALPHA' 48.9%, 'ANTENNA' 50%, 'OPEN' 45%, 'STAR' 58%, 'SKAI' 50%. That's all for the party, not your staff attendance. Greek Solution: 3% in 'ALPHA', 2.6% in 'ANTENNA', 1.3% in 'OPEN', 2.9% in 'STAR', 1.6% in 'SKAI', and these concern only our announcements, not the presence of Members who did not stand in the Greek Solution, as if - I will say raw - the scapegoats of these channels. They were never called by pan-Hellenic channels. Do you want me to tell you more about the ERR data? I will submit them to the Minutes of the House to understand that direct control is proven by the facts. Let's go to the polls, too. Here's the big party. Ladies and gentlemen, here in Parliament, who controls the legality of companies? Will anyone tell us? Minister, when you answer a question, I would like you to answer it: who controls the legality of polling companies? Who controls their transparency? Who pays the so-called investigations? Is there anyone here to answer us officially? One to come out and tell us. Are they influenced by voters? Are they affecting the city? Yeah. They're driving the country? Yeah. Do they drive the intellect of the Greeks? Yeah. So who's in charge? Who's in charge? I'll tell you now. The ERR! It is the PSE that is appointed by the government in question - this is where the situation - is ripping, the PSE that its President came here and told us, 'I have no people to work', 'I can't work'. Yeah, but their wages take them every month, they get them. If you can't work, you go home, you don't sit there and you get paid. We have reacted from the first moment, which is why we have been targeted. So, how free is the PSE? Not at all. I, Mr. Gerapitris, tasted the PSE. Here is an example of a simple: "SKAI" television station, clearly violating the legislation, a fine of EUR 15 000. He violates for the second time the same offense - the good news of the day, advertising in the news report is forbidden -, recommendation. He's been violating exactly the same crime, recommendation again to the PSE. Once in the PSE's opinion I, thirty, thirty, thirty, thirty, thirty, thirty, EUR 1 million fine! "SKAI"! When he hears "SKAI" the PSE, Mr. Koutromanos, breaks out of his evil. It's breaking! It can't be. It's getting tough. Listen, I'll say something to Mr. Gerapetritis and the rest of the parties here. If you really want to have an PPE, you cannot state to me officially - in the Minutes there is written - that it does not know from montage and transfers. The people who are in the PSE to make decisions don't know what "montage" means what "transfer" of a video and they are responsible for controlling the channels. Checking what? They don't control anything. We were talking about polls, Mr Gerapetti, just before the last European elections. All companies disappeared on the Greek solution. The highest percentage given to us by a polling company was about 1.8%. We got 4,7%. We're not talking about a poll, we're talking about a lot of polls. "METRON ANALYSIS": 1% gave us and 1.9%. ‘MRB’: 1.5% and 1.9%. ‘ALCO’: 2.7%. In other words, all these companies, by the time we had an election period, had an influence on the voters that we were on the losers' side so that the dynamics would not appear. This is called an influence of the Greek people's vote, an influence of democracy. Such a democracy is not worthy of Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the other new fairy tale, the anti-Greek 'HOAXES'. Who anointed the news troopers, Mr.Gerapitridis, a private company non-profit making, the Greek "HOAXES" which, according to them, filter, control and make "fake news statements of political leaders, Mr.Gerapitris. As far as the unscrupulous 'HOAXES' is concerned, there was a complaint - for Mr Alikos and his company, from an employee within, I have it in my office - that it is a New Democracy. And I didn't believe it at first, Mr. Gerapitri. No way. Of course Alicos knows it's a new Republic, because he's on top, but I'm saying now. New Republic is excluded, Greek 'HOAXES'. No one controls where they are financed, no one controls the work they do, no one controls them for the work they do. But listen now. I'm looking for four months now to find a New Democracy make news in HOAXES, and there's no, a make news of your governmentman or a news that is fake! I therefore have before me and hope that the 'HOAXES' brand-news will formulate them. Because that's how you control the movement of ideas. When the hints "HOAXES" come out and say "HOAXES" and "Fake News" Facebook of the person who put it up, they turn it off. When you post something on Twitter and the HOAXES, they say this thing is fast and that goes down. This is fascism, it is Nazism, it is authoritarianism and we cannot allow it as a Greek Parliament to be made by those gentlemen of Greek politicians. I've got a huge list of make news for the last ten days, Mr. Gerapetritis, statements of your own Ministers. I'll tell you a few things so I won't delay you. 20 May 2020: “We have won the battle of health.” 31 December 2020: ‘We are in the pandemic epilogue’. 8 February 2021: “We are throwing the last mile towards freedom and pandemic.” 3 November 2021: 'I do not think the pandemic has escaped'. The country's prime minister. All statements previous from the latter are make. The ladies of the anti-French "HOAXES" didn't make any news for the above. Georgiadis: “We hear the experts. Lockdown told us experts and we will abolish it when experts say so. Later, Georgiadis, another version: “Whatever the experts say, we will not make lockdown. The doctors tell us what they think, we decide." Other news, Plearis: "We have a thousand hundred ICUs". Vorides, ten minutes later: "We have a thousand hundred IF". Decide, a thousand or a thousand three hundred? But in undeniably 'HOAXES' there is no make news here. May 2020: I won't say that, because it's medical. I don't care about the masks we were told to wear or not to wear. Side: "Do the vaccinations happen? They're stuck. Are the Vaccines transmitting? They shall be transmitted’. Two months ago, Mr. Kikilis said there were a thousand five hundred ICUs working to pull out the numbers, and he said the vaccinated ones weren't stuck. Uh, well, all these make news I'll hand them over to the minutes of the House, if the HOAXES, too, are looking a little bit longer and they see that the party they support, the New Democracy, doesn't tell us very well. And I close because time is pressing. Let's take it seriously. I don't have to say how free the guy in Greece is. Report 2021, 'Publishers without Borders'. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Gerapetite, do you know what position we are in? What position is Greece? You know? Fourth from the end, seventy to eighty based on index. This report burns us, Mr Gerapitris, and it doesn't burn us either KINAL or SYRIZA. It burns you, because you have not put in institutional factors, you have not set norms, you have not put rules and, above all, feeding millions of media and hiding the news or altering the news you expose the country. Firstly, what does the freedom of the press say in Greece? ‘General tax rebates on SMEs with coronary axes - refugee. Secondly, 'Control on the flow of information. A concern about the police record. Censorship in a report. The public television is directly controlled by the Prime Minister.’ No, it's not. He never checked. It was always checked. Both the previous and the previous ones did the same. "They did not show any video of Mitsotakis breaking the measures." It is said by the 'International Transparency', I am not saying it. ‘Recovering reports to hospitals with government approval’. Mr. Gerapititi, I'll tell you one thing. If the people wake up and give a four-year period to the Greek solution, we will step on them. We will govern with transparency. Your tactics are wrong. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Research of 'REUTERS'. "Reliable media in Greece. Third, its position from the end to credibility. Over 54% of citizens are opposed to media aid. Two thirds prefer it to be informed by social media. So suddenly the New Democracy Prime Minister's premiere to check social media and Facebook and Twitter. That is why Mr Alikos had to make the wheelchair or the anti-French 'HOAXES'. Only 13% of Greeks trust the media. Eurobarometer: "74% of Greeks do not trust channels". All of this is down. And I'll tell you something, Mr. Gerapitri. Your real friend is not the media. They're not your friends. You're friends with all the media. Everything's friendly to you. But as the great Aristotle once again said, no one is a real friend, Mr. Gerapetti, for the one who has many friends. Nobody. When they become enemies, they'll beat you up - I repeat - and they'll hurt you badly. Here all the investigations - to close - and I shall put them in the Minutes, if you will be informed. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, indeed by a reformist Prime Minister who before the elections thought had another perception of information, journalism, the paper and electronic press, I said there would be a different approach on this issue. I see, however, that what I say many times in New Democracy, the sarcasm of enforcement, an enforcement that hides the truth, changes reality in the context of your reality, the glass tower that you are in and you do not come out of society. To finish this, if you want to solve the problem of freedom of press in the country, one is the solution and I say it again here: the Intergroup Committee on Real Transparency. Whatever examination we can do - because you have the majority - it is never going to make any difference. But remember something. Now you're there, tomorrow you might be opposition. And those who rule, if they are - I don't wish - or anyone else - I wish we were - will be after you in the same way. So if you want not to do what you do to others, choose the path of truth, the path of reality, the path of transparency and not corruption. It is not worth the New Democracy to behave in this way. Admiralism, fascism, totalitarianism are not worthy of our democracy, not worth the Greeks. That is why we ask that the Greek perspective change, believe what we tell him, because we can and will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u83	The Parliamentary Representative of the Movement of Change, Mr Scandalides, has the floor. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are present in another debate on the creation of a committee of inquiry. It is a pity that so far, for many years now, the committees of inquiry which have been set up, which usually lead to different conclusions from each party, have been more political and not for reasons of substance, for reasons of communication and not for substantive reasons. In the recent past, as well as in the previous years during the governance of the place, both by the New Democracy and by SYRIZA, the MPs of the Change Movement and the Generation Fofi, all of us, had formulated our strong disagreements and had reacted strongly to any state-based anti-democratic logic. Do we have a democracy in Greece? Sure, we do. After Post-Population democracy within the political world, led by Constantine Karamanlis, was consolidated. And with national reconciliation, the 1981 democratic change, the 1986 constitutional review, the major political and social conquests that the PASOK government signed and guaranteed, literally changing the map of the country, democracy was completed. Since then, the Third Hellenic Republic has been working smoothly with strong institutions, with resilience to the crises, as the bitter experience has shown after 2010 with the squares of the indignant, the general anti-parliamentary climate of blind and abstract spring. Is that enough? Oh, no. There are serious issues about the quality of democracy in our country. Problems that we need to recognise that others have been intensified by other things for many years because of wider developments and others by the weakness of the political system have actually been created. Especially after the pandemic. Because democracy is not just elections. Democracy exists when the institutions defend the interests of the people and not some oligarchy. Democracy exists when the institutions defend the interests of the people, in response to the subject and their content without being raped and blackmailed. Democracy means monitoring power with transparency and accountability. Democracy means free and multi-faceted information and objective information. So there is a question of the quality of our democracy and we have been calling it the Change Movement for months. How else can one see the complete lack of transparency, photographic provisions, the continuous and unimpeded and repeated derogation from public procurement provisions? Can anyone easily overlook the scandalous training platform grants, the direct assignments of millions of euros from the Ministry of Migration and another large number of derogations? Do we not have a question of quality of our democracy when the government with Greek people's money and opaque manipulations attempts - and to a large extent succeeds - to control the field of information? When even international organisations like the "Publishers Without Borders" point out that there is a dangerous cocktail for freedom of the press in Greece? When even the Prime Minister publicly admits that in our country we do not have a tradition of direct control over the rulers, causing negative comments in the international press? Yes, there is a question of democracy's quality when the parties' positions are distorted or silenced, when the media unequivocally presents governmental events, when there is no sign of criticism, control, accountability, when the space is not even given to the opposing voices to be heard, recorded in the public debate, when the country's journalistic world lives in a state of industrial insecurity and cannot raise the head against a process involving its life, its survival and its course. But SYRIZA who is making the proposal for the committee of inquiry on the same path today went about the years he was in the government. To try manipulating the media, he was accused. For a polling company, too, he was accused. For the financing of publishing projects, too, he was accused. So if, today, both the government and the Civilian Representation believe that there is a need for an investigation into the issues, in particular, a glorious field of glory to justify this procedure not with the policy of prosecuting which the government has attempted at at the beginning of today's sitting, but through the procedures laid down in the Constitution and the committee it will elect, if the House decides today to create by accepting the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to go into the essence of today and to the particular circumstances mentioned in the request of the Officerial Response. I will only dwell on the political substance of the whole process. It is also the task and task of the committee to be set up, rather than the plenary, to examine and judge the actions taken. But I'm going to invite you all to ask. Are we supposed to be National Representation to dismantle every shadow, every trace of suspicion over political life? Since there is even the slightest suspicion that something irregular has happened, that some outside-political interests have intruded the functioning of our democracy, should we not investigate that? In our opinion, yes. The conditions and conditions under which state funding was granted to the media following the outbreak of the pandemic in both different times that took place must be checked. It took our perseverance and the Fofi Genuines previously and all of us to make the first list of state advertising in the media public public. And, of course, then it seemed why the government did not want to make it public for a long time. Transparency, blurred funding criteria, climate of interaction with private interests. It seemed how and why the government's communication storm was orchestrated. Twenty million euros. That's what this is all about. And yet, a few months later, we had the same thing again. Second list, again without criteria, and of course without minimum transparency. We have proposed to you, and then with our amendment, that you should set criteria for the financing of instruments with social sensitivity and merit. You didn't even hear us then. And we're back in an extremely problematic television scenery. Guests of New Democracy MPs and statemen in the role of analysts. The same persons, monotony and monolithic dealing with pandemic, as with any top issue of topicality. And at the same time you pass, just yesterday, and the unacceptable new provision of Article 191 of the change of the Criminal Code, supposedly hit the make news. And that's how you almost smash free journalism and free briefing. An anachronistic, anti-democratic choice with strong mental elements, which almost fade freedom of expression in public speech, with completely vague criteria. It needs to be investigated whether these polling companies are economically linked to government programmes and public agencies' programmes. Especially when the polling companies have almost intervened openly in the internal party function of parties and in political controversy, when these companies are controlled for the way in which the polls are conducted, for the samples they use, the questions they address and, in general, well question their validity and reliability. In a democracy, the role of the poll is complex and certainly particularly useful. It must reflect scientifically, independently and impartially the trends of public opinion. They cannot work out inaccurate political conclusions and cannot be tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement and the PASOK over time and we have consistently remained on the line 'all in light'. We are in favour of investigating any suspicion of scandal, irregularity or a breach of the terms of the game, particularly when it comes to the very functioning of democracy. We agree with every request to investigate things, in an institutional manner, which is why we have voted in favour of all the requests for the setting-up of the respective parliamentary committees, even when they relate to political persons in our own political area or at times when the PASOK managed public affairs. We are proud that we are the only party to keep this attitude throughout the post-government period. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Everything and everything in the light, without asterisks, no footnotes and sects, no selective exclusions. Everyone is judged by the rules and procedures which democracy itself predicts and describes. So we will do today in the specific request of the Officerial Response, so in future we will make any similar request that may come from the majority or from other parties and extend the investigation to cases of the previous government. I would like to draw your attention here to the government and democratic sensitivity, if there is, and I should like to say that it is not a committee of inquiry that will go to the basket of unscrupulous people and will make out each one of its own if you want, accepting or increasing or influenced by political correlation. Come on, now. Do you want to even now all of us together to take a big step forward? Do you have the guts, gentlemen of the government, take an initiative so that this process does not become a leap to the void that leaves nothing behind? Here and now, I suggest that you respond in practice, intervening at three levels: firstly, at the level of how the grants of the instruments are allocated, when they are deemed necessary. A cross-party committee, involving representatives of the EESC and with specific criteria to make distributions each time. You are not losing any part of your power that big if you are going to serve democracy. At the level of the security and independence of the journalist world, against whatever activity it is, whatever its purpose, and whatever it may have, to convert the blocks into collective labour agreements, to feel that journalists are able to function and say their opinion, to write their articles, to formulate their judgment. And thirdly, you'll consider it a little utopian and romantic, but I'll say it. I have no objection to the media being financed, when necessary. But I do not want the money to go to television entertainment programmes in general. Ours, the public. Private people will obviously do their job and nobody is interfering with their programmes. Mr. Gerapetritis, for our culture, our cultural identity, to enter some criteria, not to go into badly-known places, to badly-known sirialls. Let them go to something that highlights a culture of ours, which raises the level of the world, of the people, which enables them to know its history, to go further ahead. Isn't that what we can do? We can. It's my third sentence. A quality television that will substantially strengthen it with the specific criteria of the public, public money. In conclusion, we, ladies and gentlemen, will be as active and dynamic as we always do in the committee of inquiry, since this is indeed the case. We will contribute, as always in the search for truth, without compromises and obediences. The process will, moreover, be open and public so that the citizens can draw their own conclusions. Who eventually pursue the light and who fight it. For us, corruption and complexity have no colour or political identity. It is a pathogenous horizontal and diffuse one, the main reason for the depth of distance between the citizen and politics, for the loss of confidence in democracy. If political life itself does not do everything in its power, to show that it changes, that it despises democratic principles, then very little can be hoped for the future. Against every morbid and state phenomenon the Movement of Change, the PASOK, the progressive democratic party are not silent. We have a responsibility to defend transparency in public life, government accountability, merit, respect for institutions, social dialogue, pluralism and independence of the media. The Change Movement will always be here for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We are entering the single list of speakers, with the first speaker, Mr Christoforos Boutsikaki, from New Democracy. Immediately after Mr. Marios Katsis from SYRIZA. I would ask the speakers to keep strict time. Come on, Mr. Buchikaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I should like to refer to two things, because there must be nothing unanswered in this Chamber. Firstly, I consider at least inappropriate - if not cowardly - two political leaders referring to a family in Piraeus, without any one of them having the right to answer from the Step of the House and without the Minister present to whom these implied. I do not know whether this is how the family is targeted or whether the work here is criminalised. Secondly, Mr Katrugale, in your speech I now understand why liars and slanders are currently in the headquarters of Officerial Response, as well as why you are getting lower and lower every day. With your lies, you're not going anywhere. And to have a good question, because you referred to 'within SYRIZA', what do you want to say with that? Do you have inside as a party? And if so, what is it? Objectively? Ladies and gentlemen, with the last revision of the Constitution, the New Democracy Government gave the opposition for the first time the right to set up committees of inquiry. Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself was committed and even before becoming Prime Minister. We do what we say and we prove it every day. The Government of New Democracy has nothing to fear, it has nothing to hide. It does not use its comfortable parliamentary majority in order to avoid accountability. On the contrary, it took itself the initiative to strengthen parliamentary control. This demonstrates how the New Democracy respects Parliament's institutions and institutional functioning and minority rights, rights that SYRIZA itself had to disregard or simply ignore. But let us see how the Qualified Opposition uses the right to set up a committee of inquiry. Prime Minister Mitsotakis responded directly from the Step of the Parliament, calling on Mr. Tsipras to agree to an overall check, saying "to look for all of them, to look together for funding in the media, the polling companies from 2015 until today". Everyone here, in this Chamber, saw Mr Tsipras fade catalysts towards the Prime Minister. It was recorded by the television flashlight. Soon afterward, however, as the press office of your party, and Mr. Tsipras himself, has asked that the investigation into the period of SYRIZA's governance, should not be extended. How do you explain this change? Do you have anything to hide? Unlike New Democracy, who gave the right to set up committees of inquiry in Anti-Policy because she has nothing to hide, SYRIZA obviously has. That's the only logical explanation. The new Republic, ladies and gentlemen, says 'yes' to an enlarged proposal. We call 'yes' to overall control. We cannot, however, say 'yes' to a proposal that only aims to transfer the online fake news to the temple of democracy, which targetes those who protect the health of citizens in unprecedented conditions of health crisis, those who have played a decisive role so that our country is today an example to be imitated in the management of this unprecedented health crisis. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, obviously think that the government should not have made sure that the citizens are informed. Conspiracy theories, anti-invaders and various groups and interests have literally flooded the Internet, luring thousands of our unsuspecting fellow citizens. Shouldn't we make an information campaign on the mortal risk and the importance of the pandemic vaccine? Is that what you mean? You are the only Antipolitics that you have closed and closed your eye on the anti-invasives and the negative ones, conspiracy conspiracies and makers of make news, to all those of whom you are expecting political support.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u87	Tell the new Republic's anti-invasive MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u88	Please, Mr. Comrade. Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u89	You'll hear them now. You are interested in being excellent to marginal groups and extremes. All this time New Democracy has been called upon to face unprecedented situations at all levels and has successfully dealt with them. On the contrary, two and a half years after the last elections, SYRIZA not only makes no political capitalism, but as the polls show every day go down. Because you cannot understand that the tactics of insurmountable populism will lead you again to 3%. Ladies and gentlemen, we invite you to prove - even now at the last minute - that you have nothing to hide. It's still not too late. So accept that all and all of them are checked from 2015 until now, to finally show whether and when public opinion and the media have been attempted to manipulate, to see how state advertising has been distributed over the last seven years. That's what everyone wants, we want it, and we want it, and the citizens want it too. If you do not accept this control, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will be asked to apologise before the Greek people and the Greek citizens, who agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. Mr Katsis has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Papura from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I'm picking up the thread of what the previous speaker of the New Democracy said. He talked about "slanders", about "fakes". I'm sorry, have you read to see where the Pecha list money went? Is the "VERGINA TV" of the best man of Adonian Georgiadis not an anti-infectious channel that you have given and money and move the finger or has the constitutional review passed without passing through the proposing parliament with the votes of SYRIZA? What are you lying about? With the proposal, ladies and gentlemen, to set up the Committee of Inquiry, it is time for the Greek Parliament finally to check what every citizen in this country has been on the lips for two years, no matter what he votes for, that there has never been a government at the place with such a scandalous treatment by the media. Every time the government and the Prime Minister are on the back wall from their failures and the very reality, in a phase that no convincing argument is working to respond to the criticism of the opposition parties, the horrific argument is met: "Yes, but in polls we are ahead. Let's say what you want. It's all right." But isn't this happening by accident? That is the crucial question that the committee has to consider. If, i.e. the government through taxpayers' money and the regular'mastic and carrot' manipulates public opinion and harms democracy. Would anyone well ask: 'But is it possible to do this in a European country?' The resignation of Mr Mitsotakis' heartfelt friend, Sebastian Kurts, from the position of Chancellor of Austria following the complaint about the existence of a scandal for media funding in exchange for grievous articles and damaged polls demonstrates that yes, it is possible to do so in a European country. Uh, and - can anyone say again - because Kurts resigned, who Mr. Mitsotakis foreshadowed at a prize ceremony for media freedom, does that mean that he is the same? Oh, no. It's much worse. Kurts resigned because he is being investigated to fund a million euros and could not stand up morally for a single day. Here the government has given over 40m euros with the Petsa lists, the vaccination campaign and the "ENTERPRISE GREECE". Mr. Mitsotakis is Kurts forty. Austria is seventeenth on the press freedom ranking list, according to the «Reporters without Borders», while Greece, Mr.Mitsotakis, has fallen from the sixty-fifth place in the seventeenth. So there is nothing that in Austria it is a major issue here to whistle indifferently when the methods used are almost identical. Especially in the case of ENTERPRISE GREECE, which, instead of promoting the extroversion of entrepreneurship, exported the image of the "Minister of Moses" to foreign literature. It's a shotgun case, Kurts. The government, under the pretext of pandemic, gave the Petsa list EUR 1,20 million to the media without criteria. For five months, the Minister responsible, Mr Petsas, has done what he does not hear and did not publish the list of media and money. He gave money where he wanted and what he wanted, often even with a phone call at the brokerage company following a recommendation from a government MP. Banana practices! In this way they were screwed with public money friends with nonexistent websites or even media that were not in operation, were closed. You gave money to your favorite Mini Furtitite on a non-opportunity website and after the outcry you didn't even invoice them. Other means of self-recognition have taken completely different amounts depending on whether they are in favour or against the government. That's the only criterion. [[At this point the President-in-Office takes over the President of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS]] In other things, there was disgusting injustice. In the "Publishers' Newspaper", for example, the newspaper together with the site received 40,000 euros, while "LIBERAL", which calls Mr Mitsotakis "Mossi", took 180,000 euros and then closed the newspaper. It did not ensure, in other words, that jobs would remain operational and that jobs would be guaranteed. Some opposing instruments such as 'DOCUMENTO' have been completely excluded with Mr. Tossa's obvious lie that he replicates sprayed news. However, we had after the confession of guilt by Adon Georgiadis that 'he did and did not take 'DOCUMENTO' because it is not valid'. What was revealed? It was revealed that money was given to the media, which spoke of "the chips" and "conspiracy" for the vaccine in northern Greece only because it was the best man of the Minister of Agriculture. And he has the nerve after Mr. Georgiadis said in "ACTION 24 a few days ago that "vaccination in northern Greece is not going well because they are retarded culturally and belong to the Balkans that did not pass Enlightenment". Mercy! The definition of manipulation! The mere fact that 1% of money was shared in critical media is obvious manipulation. Instead of some public health messages being free of charge and other messages of awareness and information to be paid - yes, we do not say no, but on criteria, we have proved it in practice that we are not all the same - such as the Scorchu Act and the CSH, which had come out for the press support measures, which included readability, jobs, tax and insurance information, no hate content, you did not follow these criteria. You manipulated the media with "mastic and carrot" public money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Pecha 2.2m euro list followed, 19.74m euros vaccination list. In fact, these EUR 20 million of vaccination, why did you not answer the SYRIZA Members' question, how were they distributed and where did the vaccination campaign fail, based on the fact that it has not achieved the vaccination rates set by the government itself as a target? You don't have the right not to answer and hide. You can't rule espherics like Louis. You'll answer the exam. Mr President, your predecessor had given a tolerance of three minutes, so I have adapted my speech to that level. We shall now go to the 'OPINION POLL' part. At 31-5-2021, it draws out a survey of the findings of which were in complete contrast to the findings of the Eurobarometer survey. The publication of the investigation did not indicate who had ordered it or whether it was a regular rolling survey, as it should have done. This survey, the results of which were derived from the most crazy dreams of the government, was instantly reproduced by all pro-government instruments. What did we do? Institutionally and in accordance with Article 4 of Law No 3603/07 of the Rousopoulos Act, we called for the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to be convened to inform its members of all elements of this survey. We wanted to see her. The government majority after a month of silence unjustifiedly rejected our request with legal acronyms by interpreting the law according to the beam, as it was. Why is that? What was it that he really had to hide? To date we have no evidence, of what we requested, of that poll, we have no announcement from the ETUC, whose 'OPINION POLL' I am passing away is an associated member, no response from the New Democracy until today's debate. Like a lot of them didn't get together? And for those who rush to say that in SYRIZA they see ghosts, I would remind you of the complaint of the officials of the Change Movement against 'OPINION POLL' that he is intervening with the party's inner parts, as was the day before yesterday when the press office came out. Indeed, after my announcement at the beginning of September, I publicly denounced that the owner of "OPINION POLL" has another company, "REPOSITION STRATEGY", which received by direct delegation from the EDTE, a supervised body of the Ministry of Digital Governance, a project of 270,000 euros for the telecommunications support of travel.gov.gr. And will someone say it's forbidden? Oh, no. How to forbid it after you have passed an act of legislation on COVID and released the limits of direct assignments by partying. According to published figures, "NAYTTERIC" you have shared 2.17 billion direct assignments in eighteen months. Questions, however, are many and require answers. Why did the EDPS proceed directly to this advice, which is directly linked to the 'OPINION POLL', and to what criteria? How was the work cost? Have they respected what the contract said? Is there any evidence? Was there any feasibility of the project? Did he contribute to the safe opening of tourism? And if so, why was the contract signed with REPOSITION STROTEGY 31 August of 20 when the tourist season ended? Because for some time now the issue that has been on the public record, the EDTE, the Ministry of Digital or even the REPOSITION STRATEGY, have not said a word. Doesn't it surprise you for all this? That's what we're asking. Answers do not take and in the end raise new questions from these non-answers. Is the project over-coupled or virtual so that the "OPINION POLL" is in the payroll of Maximos and with the money of Greek taxpayers who have been hard tested creates the image of Prime Minister and creates climate? And if that's the case, isn't it the only case? Because here we have a lot of nice statements. Let me remind you of two of them. We have the testimony of your beloved witness, Kalogerica in the pre-exaggeration fiasco you set up for the 3 million, which fell like a paper tower. What did he say? "I gave the demographic "GPO" to Mr Theodorikos to do what he wants", first statement. We also have a statement, because you want to go backwards, the Minister, Mr Jakoumatou, on 12-6-2015, MP then, former Minister, government, SYRIZA, because you want from 1915 and after you go after the 12-6-2015 investigation. What does Yakumato say? 'The New Democracy owes the publiccivil corporations money'. So, the highly indebted New Democracy, with its 340 millions, owes it to the polls as opposition and gives them up as a government? Let's check it out. If Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy fantasize a Greece in which no direct questions will be asked to the Prime Minister by journalists, where the fourth power will hold a mic instead of a mic and where public money will be a means of manipulating public opinion, it is deeply dark. The Government must undergo democratic control by the Opposition, as defined in the new constitution, the revised constitution. And I call on you all to vote in favour of this proposal. It is a democratic task for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u92	He has asked for the floor and will be taken by George Papandreou outside the single list of speakers as former Prime Minister. Here, Mr. Papandreou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are debating today concerns an issue which is one of the greatest modern threats to democracy. The citizens used to be enclosed according to the newspaper they read, which, of course, suggests that freedom of the press is a threat to all authoritarianism. Today, however, we see in many authoritarian regimes even within the European Union itself the tendency to be the informal media control through the acquisition or financing of the media. SYRIZA's proposal had, as a communication capitalist, the scandal of state funding in media investigated by the Austrian authorities and which led to the resignation of Chancellor Kurts. So we have come to the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry on the financing of the media and polling companies. It is obvious that the attitude of the Movement of Change and of PASOK was, is and will be, light on all. And if there are any criminal responsibilities, let them be rendered. But the challenge of this case is even more serious, vital to our democratic function. This research must demonstrate the major democratic deficits and the areas required in our democracy. Of course it must be answered what was and is the process of entrusting information and prevention services against the COVID -19 pandemic. It is obvious that the New Democracy Government has worked on the pandemic with the opaque Pessa lists to ensure favourable treatment in the media field. For us, however, there is another moral issue that is not limited to the field of communication, but touches the heart of democracy itself. The extraordinary need for the COVID pandemic -19 has inhibited the democratic rights of citizens not only in our country, but almost all of course throughout the world. But especially in our country, this has affected democratic function with a typical example of legislative decisions. In practice, they pass Parliament and deny the opportunity for this house of democracy to discuss, consult and control these decisions. In particular, the urgency of the pandemic went beyond provisions that were not necessary, because we had previously predicted in our government and the possibility of urgent decisions, but always with open procedures, with clear procedures. These decisions, of course, concern direct awards and essentially allow for the arbitrary and non-transparent management of important funds, the money of the Greek people. This concept is reflected in how you handle, colleagues of the New Democracy, the Recovery Fund and the many important funds following the decisions of the European Union that will come to our country without genuine consultation, neither in Parliament nor in the regional and local government, nor in the social partners, in the sectoral organizations of our country, in the universities and in the new generation. An historic opportunity is lost for a country's uprising for the democratic design of a new model of development with the widespread involvement of its own citizens. Of course, we are talking today about the fact that, under the pretext of the existing need to inform the public, large funds have been spent on indirect media control. Ladies and gentlemen, the reliable state information must be based on transparent, clear rules and procedures. It is also obvious that a communication campaign for pandemic should be well-designed, targeted and the funds allocated to it should be used strictly for this purpose. As a result, the government has failed to do so. The consequence of its failure is that the pandemic, the relatively low levels of vaccination that Greece has, of course, in relation to the other European countries and the rapid increase in cases, in pipes, unfortunately, and deaths. Therefore, the question is not whether the government simply takes over the positive predisposition of media, but that it is unable to capitalise on its resources to limit the effects of the pandemic. The problem is not only in the private media but also in the operation of public television, in which the decent efforts of journalists are directed towards them and intervention by the government. This situation also shows the deepest problem in our country: the performance of our democratic institutions remains low. Is that why the confidence of many citizens has been shredded to the Greek state? Was that why there was no democratic obstacle to the destruction of the money of the Greek people, which brought us to the brink of bankruptcy? And these impurities you want to make even weaker, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with your various decisions? Today's media case is only one of the manifestations of degressive democracy in our country. I say this because there are international studies. Our country, according to the 'Economic Intelligence Unit' democratic index, has been classified for several years between the countries of western Europe, with a return slightly better than the Member States of the European Union in Eastern Europe. Greece, based on the International Transparency Concept Index in 2020, ranked in the fifty-ninth position between a hundred and eighty countries from the end between the countries of the European Union. All countries, including Eastern Europe. In addition, Greece fell for 2020 from the position of sixty-five to the ranking of seventy countries which explores the press freedom index, an indicator published by the ‘Publishers without Borders’ and between the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union, we take the fourth place from the end. If we take into account the anti-democratic option to tighten up the framework for theake news by the government yesterday, we understand that the New Democracy Government is trying to solve existing problems by means of methods, but which ultimately affect the functioning of democracy itself. A fundamental reason why irrational theories thrive, whether on pandemic or on other issues, is the fact that people's confidence in this democratic functioning of institutions has been poured out. If the world feels that it cannot affect its fate, we will not be able as a nation or a pandemic to tame, but neither will we be able to make a substantial difficult transition to the green economy. The deepening of democracy and ultimately participatory democracy are undeniable needs for Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with great risks to democracy. The concentration of money alone, which is taking place at very high speeds, while concentrating on the hands of fewer and fewer people, translates into over-concentration of power into few and powerful ones. Not only is it a threat to institutions and democracy, it has already captured democracy in many countries. At the same time, authoritarian leaders go along with the same instruments for controlling democratic institutions and information and over-concentrated capital. Information from a constituent asset of democracy is nowadays converted into a commodity and a means of imprinting reality becomes a manipulation tool. This, too, for the contractual media and so-called social media, where non-transparent centres use them for systematic citizens' monitoring and unfair influence through artificial intelligence and algorithms. There are little cases where, with the responsibility of obedient and willing political ex-institutional forces, they attempt to make political and political subtle. Other institutions, such as companies carrying out public research, take advantage of their position to manipulate their own citizens to conduct their investigations. Is it not a paradox to publish surveys at a time when their authors in columns of the newspapers themselves explain why they cannot be credible? Ladies and gentlemen, the years of the crisis have seen many myths cultivated based on lies, hypocrisy, sparking consciences. We saw the hate and division reaping. And we saw New Democracy and SYRIZA competing for what leadership will take off her worst. If we do not understand that a key element of the crisis was the weak functioning of democratic institutions and independent authorities that allowed arbitrary and opacity, we will find them again in front of us and at a time even greater challenges. And here in the Chamber of Parliament, in the castle of democracy, this must be discussed, because it is crucial and vital. We cannot go to the future without social cohesion and justice and without institutions that operate democratically and create an environment of confidence. We need to act immediately with a sense of responsibility. It is necessary to defend the autonomy of policy, to reveal the new forms of undermining democracy and to defend the public interest and, of course, the rights of our citizens. We who have been professed and acted with clarity and transparency in public life, free radio, will always be on the side of knowledge, on the side of truth, the informed and undeclared citizen, even if we are on our own. But, I believe that we will not be alone, that this need is also a requirement for the Greek people, and so we will continue. That is our identity and the mandate of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u94	Mrs. Papacosta, I invoke your patience. Mr Tsipras will take the floor. After Mr Papandreou, the Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras will be called at Step. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of last month, Austrian Chancellor Kurts was forced to resign following public intervention to investigate complaints about an attempt to manipulate state media money and even polls in Austria. The news about the resignation of Kurts could be an interesting news of political developments in a distant European country, which concerns us here in Greece. However, the inconvenience caused by this news at the Maximos Mansion was disproportionate and unusual for one event that occurs in another European country. Why is that? Is it because Mr. Kurts is a similar and science friend of Mr. Mitsotakis? I do not think Mr Mitsotakis would be so sad about his political friend from Austria. On the contrary, his concern was not at all for Austria and for political developments there, but for Greece. Mr Mitsotakis quite rightly feared that the resignation of Kurts to Austria for attempting to manipulate the media and polling will also be opened here in Greece, even in a deferred manner, for a very substantial debate on the quality of our democracy, on the practices of his government towards the media and also in the polling companies. But what terrible thing did Kurts do in Austria and was forced on resignation by this populous leader, the hopeful young European Right, who five months before he resigned, before he was forced to resign, to receive the prize - listen, listen - to the freedom of the media? What courage and hypocrisy, huh? And who has invited - to recall - as a central speaker in his prize for media freedom, five months before being forced to resign for media manipulation? Who? Mr. Mitsotakis - who else? -, the expert to talk about freedom of the press, freedom of the media. Alas! We either have the knows how and it's internationally renowned or we don't have it at all! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But why was Austrian Chancellor's award-winning Chancellor for press freedom only five months after his award forced him to resign for charges involving press manipulation? Because during the period 2016-2018, when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, he had made available state money from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs money of 1,000,000 euros in order to fund polling and esteeming in the media news reports for him in exchange for buying advertising time. Does that remind you, ladies and gentlemen? Have you ever heard of it before? Has he been misunderstood? Has anything like this ever happened in our country? Did it happen only in Austria from the right there and his friend Mr. Mitsotakis, and once Mr. Mitsotakis found out he got him out of a Facebook friend? Because, as you know, he doesn't pick up anything like that! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's not be fooled! Mr. Kurts in front of Mr. Mitsotakis, I think he looks like Arsakia. For 1,000 euros, Kurts was accused! For 1,000 euros, Kurts quit! That's how far back these Austrians are! What's a million euros? This is where millions of state money, money from Greek taxpayers and nothing is going on. And not because in Austria there are prosecutors and judges and not - and here there are honest and conscientious judges - but because, as you know, according to the law on the responsibility of the ministers of each judge, he has just fallen on a political person, he sends the file to the House, as did the Greek justice last May, which opened a preliminary investigation into possible malicious infidelity against the public for the Pecha list. And falling on the others. Pharmacopoeia and Pecha, Minister of Government, was forced to discontinue the investigation and to transmit the file to the parliament. And, of course, the parliamentary majority has taken care to bury this file for months in a drawer! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say, it is not just legal and criminal. Let you not have any doubts, there will be criminal responsibilities for this story no matter how much you have taken care of - intelligently acting - to put an ombudsman - because you fraudulently set up the game - a company to allegedly make the allocation of money on its own responsibility. But it is your concept that political responsibilities will be sought, because, as you know, there is no longer any limitation. Don't forget that. We've taken care of and changed the constitution. You were forced and voted for it too. So don't think you'll get away with it. Let's keep it in mind. I repeat, however, that for me the major issue is not legal and criminal at this time. The big issue right now is primarily, I would say, moral and political. After all, Mr. Kurts did not resign to Austria because he was forced by law to resign and even before his case went to courtrooms. Kurts resigned to Austria because Austrian society does not accept this immoral behaviour from a politician and indeed from a Chancellor. So what do you think is going to happen here in Greece? What do you think? That Greek society will tolerate this immoral behaviour of Mr.Mitsotakis, who is twice immoral, because all of this did not do so in 2016 and 2018, such as Kurts, but during the pandemic period and under the pretext of pandemic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the time when the Greek society was immersed in fear and insecurity, at the time when we were all closed up in our homes with repeated lockdowns, while hospitals were filling up - as was unfortunately - with COVID patients, what did Mr Mitsotakis do? He decided to leave hospitals unqualified to doctors and nurses and without adequate care in IF beds - as Mr Petsas said, "we will not throw money into a black hole to build intensive care units" - he decided to leave without sufficient funding the National Health System, but at the same time he gave a coarse money, money from Greek taxpayers, to build a regime in the media, to have the media smuggling him. You know, that's not just embarrassing, I'd say it's criminal. And it's criminal, because these more than 400,000,000 would be given in the first phase for an information campaign on the coronary and second phase for a vaccination campaign. But instead of an information campaign and a campaign for vaccination, we had propaganda on "Moses" that managed and defeated three times the pandemic and the "chitach" of political life. No concern and no campaign for the protection of citizens, for public health and for vaccination, just a livanist. And you know, this is also seen by the result from the evolution of things. Our country today finds itself in the dramatic position of being at the top of Europe in deaths per million people for months, but at the bottom of Europe in vaccination coverage. The campaign's got a place! So it is deeply immoral what Mr Mitsotakis chose to do with the money of the Greek people. And the House today is making use of the opportunity given to us by the Constitution, the change made to the Constitution. There was no possibility. For the first time, it is being exploited and I hope that there will be respect for the Constitution and that it will not be attempted on the part of the majority - as has been heard at some point - by this intervention, which would be an insult to the Constitution. Because the majority in question will not be happy when the minority wants to control its actions. But that is what we have voted on, that is what we have all decided together. So it would be a wishful task not to interfere in this. I say, therefore, that by exploiting this change in the constitution, which enables the opposition to control the current government majority, the House today does not just come to set up a committee of inquiry, the House today is, I would say, called upon to do its duty towards the Constitution and democracy. It has to defend democracy itself, defend pluralism and objective information, which are pillars of democracy itself. It is called upon to explore and respond to this authoritarian practice of manipulation of public opinion, which is only found in authoritarian regimes. It is called upon to investigate and if you have the majority, and only if this file is to be opened, it is intimidated and frightened, it is called upon to explore and illuminate the manner in which the government with the money of Greek taxpayers has tried to establish an unprecedented philosophical regime. How, in a few months' time, excellence and the liberal ideas you supposedly defended became a synonym of interlocutory, propaganda and authoritarianism. How within a few months did you manage to turn a European democracy into an authoritarian Orban and Kurts regime? And why did you do that? First of all, because in the face of the forthcoming event of a pandemic, which, in fact, is not an easy case, you felt very few to confront with this harsh reality that you had before you. You felt insufficient to deal with such big and vital issues. And instead of trying to fight with reality, to fight with the pandemic that was shading the souls of all the Greeks at the time and today, instead of fighting to deal with the problem, you wanted to buy another reality, to buy the truth itself. And you have fortified behind the walls of propaganda and lies, failing or not comprehending to understand what is happening today outside these walls. That's why you've been looking completely shattered lately, you've thrown a white towel. From summer onwards, you will change - the Prime Minister, not you, Mr Gerapetititi - all the relevant ministers who have managed the pandemic despite repeated self-righteous statements that you have achieved everything. But you have changed them all to manage the pandemic at the most critical moment, a minister, a missionary of yours from the extreme right, to pete ears, knowing that the vast majority of our fellow citizens who have not been vaccinated and especially those who are not afraid of them, because for those who fear you have done nothing, dominate opinions of extreme right, mock them ears. You have also put white towels on vaccination, white towel and the necessary efforts that could have been made to support even at the very last time the National Health System. And you wait now, fateful and unwitting in return, as the poet said, what? Wait for your communication airbags to protect you from impact with the hard reality. But you can no longer avoid this impact, because no matter what you say, no matter what you play and whatever the people who protect you communicate live this reality. And it is painful that this reality, together with the return of the pandemic to reap human lives and an unsatisfactory reality with the accuracy of today knocking at the door of the overwhelming majority of households, who have not to make the month and in the third week the income is saved, with prices on the bills of electricity rising three and four times. That is the reality that the average citizen is experiencing today. How to change it, how to distort this reality? It goes out and says the Prime Minister: "If we hadn't taken measures in fact in the current, it would have been ten times more than the bill." And what measures has he taken? It has taken measures of EUR 9 and EUR 18 and the minimum wage remains stuck three years now. She's giving a 50-minute increase a month and she's not ashamed to raise 50 minutes a month. How can you distort it, how can you change it when three months ago when you said the pandemic was over, the "Freedom" operation saved us? And now we're seeing our vaccinated fellow citizens get sick. How can there be confidence in the political system when you have created a sense, and continue, of relaxation and continue to talk about a pandemic of unvaccinated pandemic, continuing to give the message to our fellow citizens, to the vaccinated, to all of us that 'it's no big deal. Get out without masks." So you can no longer change an image which is painful for citizens. The world's on you. Your fall will be inevitable, Mr. Gerapitri. I'm talking to you, because you're the only ones here from the government. I am not addressing you specifically. You can't avoid that. I would once again say that since you cannot avoid fatality, at least take care of your attitude to avoid fatality for life and Greek society, for human life. The sooner the better. Since you cannot make decisions hard, we are here to make the decisions that the place needs to protect society, protect income, protect human life. [[Applause lively and prolonged by the wing of SYRIZA]] From the Petsa lists alone, ladies and gentlemen, and the huge sums you have made without any criteria in pro-government instruments, the financing of websites belonging to your relatives and friends, members of the ruling party, and the funding on websites with no visitibility, I would say, an unprecedented attempt to manipulate the media and the public. And the crucial question you will have to answer to this committee of inquiry that you have the majority, I would ask you if you have anything to say here and now to the National Representation to the Greek people, the crucial question is on what criteria you have given this money. On what criteria? On the criteria of readability, on the basis of workers, with the criteria of journalists who employ? Tell us a criterion, one! On what criteria, for example, did you give 180,000 euros to the media of the journalist and friend of yours, Mr Mavridis, and to the newspaper "PHELLERTEROS", which sold at the time a thousand cards and was ready to close and we all knew it was ready to close? The newspaper “PHELLERTEROS” received more than the newspaper “KATHMERINI”. And Mr. Mavrides took the money and then he closed the paper. Tell us what criteria you gave this money? What was the criterion? That he's likeable? And to me, man likes me. I have no problem, I do not target him today when I mention his name, but I want you to say a criterion, to explain why. On what criteria did you announce that you're even going to give Furthiotis money? Mr. Furthiotis, Mr. Gerapitris, you have given the money. Why? You had some kind of special contact with him, did you know him? Give an answer to this since you are here, because many in the government say "We did not have contacts with Furthitis, Mr. Gerapitris had". I'm giving you a chance to give answers. Not to me, but to those in the government who show you with your finger. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] On a nonexistent site they went to give money equivalent to what they gave to historical newspapers. They have, of course, collected them as far as Furtiotis is concerned after the outcry, but many others have not packed them up. Tell me, on what criteria you have given almost EUR 15 000 to means of zero readability - no one knew their existence in the province, in Pieria, for example - because they belong to the best man of Mr. Petsa, to the wife of Mr. Pierres New Democracy MP Mr. Patsi, EUR 15 000
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u96	Grevenes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u97	Grevenes. I'm messed up. I'm not good at geography of the new Republic's works. But the argument does not change. The 15,000 euros to the Secretary-General's best man and his wife to New Democracy. The same money that took the website of the editors' Newspaper. He did not have a best man in Petssa, the "Editors' Newspaper". How'd he get money? And she was opposing. On what criteria you gave EUR 30,000 to a site that I did not know exists, but we learned it good for him to do so, it also became advertising on Mr. Muroutis's site of EUR 30,000. Because he's a close associate of Mr. Samaras? You did the same in the ‘Privats Newspaper’, not on the site. An unknown site no one knows about, getting the same thing as a newspaper that has fifteen thousand cards, its Saturday edition. On what criteria you have given thousands of euros to a site that is not even contained in the Ministry's online media registry and in virtually non-existent media. I have a list of dozens of examples here, but it's not the time, I'll see you in the examination. Finally, with what criteria have you completely excluded from any funding the disturbing 'DOCUMENTO', this Sunday's newspaper and its site? Why? Let me tell you why. Because it bothers Caesar, that's why. Because he reveals he's got a false place you had, that's why. And that it bothers Caesar, it must be closed, there must be no. This is your understanding of democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Mitsotakis attitude towards the 'DOCUMENTO' which also proves a complexism and an anti-democratic culture is not just about the list of Pechas. Because he himself attempted to leave this newspaper in addition to all kinds of funding for advertising from the first days that he took on Prime Minister, personally calling one to one by the businessmen and the directors of business groups, to stop advertising. Who? The country's prime minister. And no, it's not our country, Erdogan's Turkey, it's not our country, Hungary, Orban, it's Greece, but Mitsotakis. But a Greece that has a long democratic tradition and struggles in this place for freedom of the press. And if you don't want to hear us, you write us in the oldest of your shoes, you say the Opposition says them, why do you not respond to the repeated inconveniences you had from international institutions and agencies? Council of Europe's annual report on freedom of the media. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. What's he saying? It says, among other things, that the Greek media criticising the government was excluded from a EUR 20 million support programme. A lot considered opposition, received disproportionately lower levels of advertising revenue than the public health campaign compared to more government-friendly, even though they had more circulation and readability. Who says that? The report by the Council of Europe. DOCUMENTO, a weekly research paper, was completely excluded from state funding. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The regime, however, is not exhausted in the manipulation of the majority of the instruments and in the attempt to reduce any annoying voice. The right regimes that respect themselves also attempt to manipulate public opinion through the publication of direct measurements of public opinion. Nowadays, that's how it works, it used to be not the measurements, now that they exist, if they want to respect themselves, they do that too. And I want to be quite clear and clear from the outset, I have no intention of dealing with all the local companies or with companies that are honestly and respectfully doing their work, whether they are falling inside, in recent years more rare, or who are falling out, in recent years more commonly. But here, we're talking about an eye-to-eye lisverish of a particular company, it's what we're filing to look into on the proposal, a lisverice, which has just been discovered, as soon as we've caught it in the act that they say, you've decided to hide it. On May 31, the company 'OPINION POLL' presented a survey which, by way of court, we were curious about, such as, by way of court, we had seen other findings of this company, Mr Scandalides, strange about the internal issues of KINAL. Mr. Scandalides can't hear me, he's got a word. I say that we were curious about the findings of this company, as we had seen strange and precedental findings on the inside of a party, but we did not pay particular attention. When this was repeated and we asked, using the Rusopoulos Act, the New Democracy Government Act, and we submitted a request to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, that the primary data of the investigation be presented to the committee by the public company, as well as information on the costs, the way and the method for carrying out the investigation and the export of the results. What is more correct in a democracy for everyone to be controlled on the basis of the law in force? After a month of silence and despite our continuing requests for Members, the chairman of the committee, Mr Bourras, denied our request on completely unfounded and pretextful grounds. It is certain that Mr. Buras did not deny himself that it was a majority decision, a government decision. And the question is obvious. Why did he refuse? What does the government have to control - not the company, notice - but just one specific measurement? Of course, we received the answer shortly after ITH, when in a new investigation of this company Mr.Mitsotakis gathered percentages of Tsauceskos, a few days after half of Greece had been burned. The more acres burn in this country and the more cases and deaths we have, the more Mr Mitsotakis' popularity rises. This is a strange phenomenon, only in Greece, but that is the reality today. Looking a little further, however, we have discovered that here we are not talking about the wrong methodology - and I would like to stress this - we do not want to judge statistical methods and scientific methods, here we are talking about something more deeply, because the National Network of Technology and Research Infrastructures, the EDPS, which is a supervised body of the Ministry of Digital Governance, approved the direct assignment to REPOSITION SROTEGY, which is owned by the same natural person who owns this demographic company for the project "Telecommunications support for travel.gov.gr". The initial direct award covered a total period of two months and had a cost of 60,000 euros, while, according to the “Guideliness”, two further extensions of the original contract were followed, another 60,000 euros and 150,000 euros thereafter, i.e. a total of 270,000 euros directly awarded to the owner of the company that produces the strange results, and your government refuses to be controlled by the law institution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now between us, speaking of 270,000 isn't bad. He could take him out and be more suitable for planetary commander Mitsotakis or "OPINION POLL". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, you know, that's Greek taxpayers' money. We want you to give an answer for all this. What do you have to answer for all this? What do you have to answer about these disgusting and immoral methods of manipulating public opinion in the middle of a pandemic, about the misery of direct assignments? And it's not just a thousand euros. They are billions that you share with friends and "logues" in the midst of the worst, hardest health crisis in the modern history of the country. You who have come with your "meaning" the least state, have created a monster-state within two years, benefactor of every blue child and every bounty who has been tasting you. Under the pretext of pandemic, you gave the opportunity to conclude public contracts by direct awarding regardless of the amount and to increase the fixed limits for direct awards. What was the result? An incredible 'partner' from across Greece by direct assignments, a 'tsunami' direct awards, an unprecedented smuggling of public money, when the vast majority of our fellow citizens experience an unprecedented labour and economic insecurity. Two billion euros, seventy million euros, gave direct assignments within a year and another two billion, seven hundred and thirty million, you gave contracts for restricted procedures or negotiation procedures without prior publication. We are talking about EUR 4.9 billion in eighteen months, EUR 5 billion, therefore, in 'days'. This has never been done in the country before. People are unhappy outside, people are afraid of their lives, they are not going to make a month accurately, wages are stuck, small and medium-sized enterprises are drowning in debts, and you are doing "part of" with the state's money for your "your children" that make companies on the day of the award to get "hot" public money. It's embarrassing what you're doing. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're laughed if you think this is gonna pass. In the modern history of the place there has never been such a "part" direct commission from the public. All over the public sector there is a 'university' of awards or pretext procedures to good and party friends. You're turning us into the worst times of the Client State of the Right. Repeat: Do not think that all this can be forgotten and that you will always be able to cover all this. Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, you have been immersed in the syndrome of the rulings who think their authority will be eternal. This syndrome is called arrogance. You believe that you will be ruling eternally and that there will be no further social and political majority in this place to ask you for an account. So I want to inform you that you're wrong. Your days of abundance are over. It's time everything will be checked. Nothing will be kept hidden. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I believe that the start is being made here today in Parliament, because it is not only the fact that we have an original procedure, since for the first time there is a profoundly democratic provision of the new constitution, but we also have the fact that on this proposal, on the proposal that the government of Mr Mitsotakis should be effectively controlled, there is agreement, the conclusion of the whole of the anti-population parties, and that is, in my assessment, a remarkable political fact. So the beginning is today with the establishment of this committee of inquiry that will investigate all your actions for the attempt to take free expression and will, the manipulation of public opinion, the rape of the truth and reason on the back of a society that is suffering and despite the suffering, you chose to live your myth, on the backs of a society feared that you, despite being afraid, chose to set up a corruption party, on the backs of a society feared that you, despite being hurt and afraid, chose to break up lies, propaganda and division to escape from its anger. I'm hanging up with what I started with. It's not a legal or criminal matter. It's a matter of morality. It is deeply immoral what you are doing today and the House is taking the first step to shine the truth and stop this moral catastrophe, in order that our homeland may be redeemed from the worst, most cynical, the most dangerous, democratic government that our country has ever known since Postmolitanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u98	On behalf of the Government, the Minister of State will answer George Gerapitris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will reply to the Chief of Officer Observatory of the same person, who never expects to hear the answer to what he said, I think that he is addicted to a reasonable monologue more than parliamentary dialogue. That is the respect for parliamentary procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u100	Look, it's not debate, we have speeches here. Be quiet. No one interrupted Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u101	In the forty minutes of the speech of the Chief of Officer's Response didn't hear anything. I'd be a little begging for your patience. I shall begin, Mr President, from where I concluded my speech during the plenary debates at the conclusion of the review process. Let me say a word about the committees of inquiry, that is, Article 68 of the Constitution. It is a proposal from the New Democracy put to the Proposing Parliament. Essentially committees of inquiry will now be able to be set up by the parliamentary minority, not only as was the case until now, but it will be a genuine means of parliamentary control. I would like to say that I am very proud to introduce this provision, because in my opinion - which I had recorded very well in time in scientific terms along with this proposal - I believe that the level of parliamentaryism of each constitutional order is, in the end, judged by the rights which parliamentary minorities have to control majority voting. I mean that I am twice proud of the fact that we are bringing this proposal exactly while we are in the majority, and that is political bravery, recognizing that it is so important to give some of this material to Minority, although we know that it will ultimately turn against us in this political context. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why I feel that it is a great moment for the Committees of Inquiry to be incorporated as the right of minority vote to restore constitutional order. That was the conclusion of the speech. With this provision that is being triggered for the first time today, it historically restores a great innovation of the Greek constitutions, because the Greek Constitution was the first in 1927, which passed a provision for the setting up of committees of inquiry by Minority, under Article 55. We then had other constitutions, such as the German one in Article 44 or the Portuguese one in Article 178, which provided for such provisions. Today, however, at this historic meeting, we had a profound political lie, we had a political misappropriation operation. Mr Katrugalos started by saying that this was a proposal from today's minority. This is unbelievable policing. I will submit to the Minutes - because I want to substantiate this - SYRIZA's proposal for the revision submitted on 2 November 2018. It shall not include any revision of Article 68. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On 14 November the proposal of the New Democracy for a review of Article 68 with the specific content that was voted on. On 14 March 2019, in the proposed parliament, the issue comes, SYRIZA is voting in favour and comes as a proposal from the New Democracy. Indicated separately in the chapter ‘Proposals from Anti-Population’. Then we come here to this House, the Revision House. Do you know what SYRIZA did? He tried to lower the device. As long as we have proposed two committees of inquiry from Minority with a proposal of only ten Members, what was SYRIZA's proposal? Do you remember? The proposal was for SYRIZA to be able to set up a committee of inquiry on a proposal1/5, so that the small parties to this right would be deprived of it and that SYRIZA would have it only. That was SYRIZA's proposal, which was voted against in the Review House. So, please, in relation to democracy, the review process and the bravery of giving Parliament the order imposed not on it today, not on this House. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's a great satisfaction to see this important device activated. You have had the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to activate this provision in more circumstances and you will have the opportunity once again to do so during this parliamentary term. But in the end, you are doing so as a genuine example of political opportunism. Why? Because this is a completely obsolete matter. Five instruments of parliamentary scrutiny have been put in place, documents have been lodged, the issue is completely exhausted, it has no meaning, society is obviously not dealing with these issues, but you are doing so now. And how do you bring it? I'm really surprised. The proposal to set up a committee of inquiry and also the speech made by the Chief of Staff Representation a moment ago began with a ten-minute speech on what is happening in Austria. Is that true, if this had not been done in Austria, would this proposal come? Have we forgotten about the question of the Pecha list and suddenly because the events happened in Austria have come back to the surface? This - you will allow me to say with respect - is a mere political fiction and nothing else. And, as we speak - so that we do not forget - the rights of the minority Parliament and how bravely we have agreed to control - and we will do so in other cases where necessary - do you want to remember what the minority rights were in the previous parliamentary term? Do you want to remember in 2016, when the opposition together called for the four licence-holders to come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency? What have you done? You refused to come. Do you want us to remember in 2018, when the opposition asked for the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to be called by the Ministers of National Defence and Foreign Affairs on the Saudi missiles? What have you done, remember? You refused to come. So when we talk about minority rights and parliamentary culture it is good to look on this side of Parliament. Let me get on the proposition a little. The proposal on the part of the Officer's opposition is double offensive. It is insulting to the citizens and it is insulting for a particular subset of citizens who are journalists, who are involved in the information sector. Do you really think that when you write in the title 'a misleading of citizens of the evolution of political tendencies, a political manipulation operation', do you think that citizens are a herd? What kind of paternalism is it that you think citizens do not have the maturity to see, judge, compare what happens in this parliamentary term compared to the previous one? Do you really think that's what shapes public opinion? Moreover, in relation to journalists, do you really think that all journalists are such a psychology, such as, once they see money entering, immediately, their political attitude, their critical approach, in their profession? Say it straight. Do you think they're all sold journalists? Is that the answer? This is written in your proposal. And you know what? I'll tell you this, because you're probably gonna get away from the international press. All the countries of Europe, all of which have no exception - I challenge you to find me a country - have carried out similar campaigns to inform the public about vaccination. All of them. Do you know anything interesting? No country has raised this issue. No one! Here the opposition always undertakes to be at the forefront of the question, which indirectly calls into question the undertaking itself and the vaccination and public health information. If you want, I'll tell you that. Is it time to abandon the 'yes' or 'no' attitude to inform the public about vaccination and protection against disease? ‘Yes’ or ‘no’? But once, say it unequivocally. No 'yes but'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Are we in principle in favour of information, or is this ultimately hiding a question? ‘Yes’ or ‘no’ to vaccination him? And I'll tell you why. I just heard - I want to tell you not with annoyance but with a real question - the Chief of Officer's Response to be blamed for us. Why? You were saying that the vaccine saves, while today vaccinated are diseased. Did you really think about that before you said it? Do you realize what it means today to be at risk for the use of the vaccine for vaccinated persons? Do we understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u102	Please be quiet. What you say is not written in the Minutes. It can't be done every time he puts a perfect step in. Quiet, please. Quiet. You don't have the floor. It's not right what you're doing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u103	But ultimately, the problem - you know - is not the process that you follow, nor the polling companies. It's the reality. That's the problem. Unfortunately, however, whatever the results of the polls or the government's image will not change. And you know, because there was a long reference to Aristotle, it is obvious that today we are in a state of distance of language and reality, which in the end is from logic. At this stage - unfortunately - we are. Your rapporteur, I think, and also the Chief of Staff Responsibility, mentioned earlier in the famous press report of the active citizens pending in justice. Acting civilians moved in to see what happened with the Pecha list. Here it is. Don't worry. I'll tell you, to have an image, the independent and self-advised active citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u104	Don't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u105	Don't do it. Okay. I shall follow the opinion of my dear colleague and friend, Mr Xanthopoulou. But know that the active citizens are not the ones who belong to this area and that all they care about is to create a political problem. They may be active citizens but they are not citizens who are objective and impartial. At least we recognize that. It is questioned and questioned today that there is pluralism in the media sector. He questioned pluralism. What I recognize, you know, is that today half the daily newspapers of national circulation are critical to the government. Please see an improvement to see what the titles of the newspapers are. Half the newspapers are critical of the government. Another question is that this type of criticism, as is done in an extreme way, obviously cannot be touched by anyone. And you know, unfortunately, sadly...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u106	Let me tell you something. As you know, I respect the parliamentary institutions very much. I haven't interrupted once the Chief of Officer Response. I have begun to speak, and I have been interrupted after every phrase I have made. If this is the way you look at anyone who takes the step, I very much regret your parliamentary quality. Really. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u107	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u108	Come on, come on. They're not listening to them and they're not written.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u109	Where'd the money go?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u110	Please, we're not in the locker room, Mr. Comrade. We're in plenary. If you'd like to go to the hostage. There's room.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u111	The Chief of Staff Response spoke of a disruption of confidence in the political system. I really understand as a delicate ironic that the Chief of Staff Response speaks, which is the one who basically demolished confidence in the state during the four and a half years of his own governance. But today I would also like to say to the staff that it has become a very cynical duct of vulgarity. And I say it on account of knowledge. And please put it in the Minutes. He said I'm related to journalists. I consider this to be a real shame for the Chief of Staff Responsibility to channel here to the temple of democracy such vulgarities, making it a channel for those who only do are to pervert the confidence of the political system. I should therefore like to say to him, since I have absolutely nothing to do with any journalists but formal relationships. If he wants to seek special relationships, he can look better elsewhere. I myself have filed a complaint on issues raised by this journalist, which he mentioned. But this guy's vulgarity in this temple is not allowed, you will allow me to say. As, also, in my view, it cannot remain a matter of the fact that today I feel that we are here to actually support one thing. How unfair the distribution was - I think we all agree that the information campaign should be held - because it did not receive funding for 'DOCUMENTO'. That's what we hear today. We continue to hear why DOCUMENTO did not receive money. We haven't heard anything else. One argument I haven't heard. 'DOCUMENTO' I hear all the time. If you want to express yourself as DOCUMENTO's representative to do so. It's your absolute right. But perhaps before you consulted the director of "AGE" who had been convicted of "DOCUMENTO", precisely because he considered that the owner's postings were just beyond political ethics. Decide what end you want. But in any case, coming here and defending interests of specific newspapers, you realize that it has a problem. Let me stress this. You keep saying how much money was received. Have you thought that for the first time, as far as I know - and there was also a post on this matter on behalf of the President of the regional press - 30% of regional media were given? It is foreseen by law. This will be demonstrated by the committee of inquiry to be set up. For the first time, there was absolute compliance with the legislation and 30% went to regional means of informing citizens where they settle. For the first time. There was no other way. Excuse the parentheses. For many months, SYRIZA had announced an information campaign on vaccination. Have we forgotten about this or is it extended when the pandemic is over to start the campaign then? We should know. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In addition, I should like to say this because I heard it. We'll respect each other. It was very threatening to hear the Chief of Officer Response on many levels. First of all, it was threatening that when it comes back to power all this will be assessed by implying that it will seek responsibility. I wish. Here we are looking for them. I fear that this will take a long time, but they will be sought. We don't have a problem like that. We are absolutely in favour of transparency. It was also said that 'we should be good when a committee of inquiry is set up and discussion is held there, the subject can be extended'. We'll see. Again, it must be a minority initiative, since there is a minority right. But I have a suggestion to make. If it is to be enlarged, it should be extended to the range of instruments financed. To put MONDE and FIGARO in France. Let's put 'FINANCIAL TIMES' and 'NEW YORK TIMES' from the United States, put 'TELEGRAPH' and 'GUARDIAN', put 'POLITICO', 'WORLD STREET JOURNAL', 'BLOMBERG', 'CN', 'HANDERSPLAT', all of which have been praised for the country. Let's put them on. And they may have given money in indirect to us. Enlarge it to understand them, too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I apologise for the tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. Above all, I am sad that I feel that this opportunity, the great opportunity given to Parliament's opposition, will be lost. Our proposal was the most institutional one. It seemed that nothing else would be accepted by the Chief of Staff. There was an consent as we all understood. There will be an opportunity to have a neutral proposal which is not erotic and aggressive, such as this proposal, to look at all the institutional issues so that we can have a beneficial result and to think about how to improve the environment. This proposal was not accepted by SYRIZA. SYRIZA, whoever is alleged to be in favour of transparency, chose to control only our own period. For his own, we don't want it. Don't worry about it. That is why, because I am essentially formulated in anticipation of the result, the proposal cannot be accepted by the New Democracy wing. It would've been the applicant's reception. If you read your proposal, it's a conclusion. It's not a proposal. The Prime Minister respects the institutions. The new Republic will not apply for a second examination. We will be there, with respect for parliamentary procedures, with a clear choice to see the pathologies that have been invented and to be creative in how to heal it. All witnesses will be invited to be summoned by all time horizons. There will be a complete debate, as we all want. But you know what? I'll tell you this and I'll close. We have proved this in the Constitutional Review, and we have proved it today. We won't bleed the right. The Prime Minister and the New Democracy respect constitutional institutions. On the contrary - you will allow me to say this and close - the perception of transparency and integrity by Civicism is a sound card. Only when it's good for us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Parliamentary Representatives have been asked for the floor: Mr Raguss, on behalf of SYRIZA, with the time that the President of SYRIZA spoke, Mr Gregoriadis, who has not spoken. Mr. Gregoriadis has a specific reason why I am able to know, and he has to leave the fastest. We will give the floor to Mr. Gregoriadis. Mr Raguss will be followed, and then Mr Hetas, who expels frustrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u113	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. I would also like to thank the colleagues who have consented to precede a little bit. This is a brilliant opportunity for me, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We ordinary Members, even if we are Parliamentary Representatives, are not given the opportunity to speak so closely to any of the parties' leaders. It's very important that the Chief of Officer Responsibility was preceded. I have a few comments to make on his speech. However, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by making a statement to everyone. So we don't make fun of ourselves like I'm used to saying in here, you know, people have a tomb and we're all pretending to be a secret savage. After so many years, since the transformation of almost and almost here, manipulation of the media or money or co-operation of governments with the media, after so many years of making public opinion, after so many years, almost half a century, do you know what you have achieved? You have succeeded in making their adjustments automatically. So, when a poll says that New Democracy spends 20 per cent of SYRIZA, the average Greek citizen thinks "who has done this survey? METRON ANALYSIS? Oh, good, I remove 6% -7% to see where we are." The citizen also deciphers the real percentages, as I have told you, but at the same time understands the real news, which is hidden under the news presented to him. In short, because man is a kind of insurmountable, unsolved, you have succeeded - after half a century, and finally successes in manipulating all the media and disinforming citizens -, citizens with a kind of specific secret school have trained themselves and managed to make a kind of truth out of what you serve them. Some remarks about what democracy means, what journalism means, what respect for journalists. Just a few days ago, the Austrian Chancellor resigned because he was accused of being accused of trying to manipulate polling in his country. He resigned immediately. I'll let you know that they were right-wing concepts, but they had the equilibrium that our people don't have at the centre of the right from what it looks like. So why did the Austrian Chancellor resign and what does that teach us? It teaches us that political behaviour - in Austria, but also throughout the favoured world - in the United States of America, in France, in Germany, in the United Kingdom and in Italy, even in all the normally democratic rest of the world - which constitute criminal offences, in our own country, the well-known banana that is called Greece - which is not at all bananas from its very nature, is the best country on earth and you have made bananas, which have been milking it like a cow for centuries. What? Manipulate polls, buy out polls. You will tell me 'Good, a parliamentary representative of the smaller party in Parliament says so. Do you have any proof?’ If I have! Proof that chickens eat too! Listen to evidence. Do you remember the polls in the famous 2015 referendum? Remember the polls? I would remind you that I remember them very well: 55% of the 'yes', forty-eight hours ago, 45% of the 'no'. Do you know the result forty-eight hours later? It cannot have changed the general climate and where the political population was directed within forty-eight hours. After forty-eight hours about 60% the 'no', 38% the 'yes'. You realize you don't have to argue with anyone. Let me give you another little argument. I am a recent politician, and I hope I do not get too far in politics, not to stay for many years. The first time I went to TV, she was on Mrs. Stay's "Hellenic" show. All decent journalist and decent show. But the poll hosted by the show - I'm telling you it was seventeen days before the elections that Merra25 took 3% proudly - said 1% for our party. Do you understand how polls take place? Do you understand how these polls are bought? Mr President, in order not to be far away, Mera25 certainly agrees to open up the file of mass deception and manipulated polls. But the main issue, Mr President, is not control, and indeed the so-called control, the bad theatre that will be played here in the next few days that the committee of inquiry will be launching. The real problem, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for our democracy is the ownership of these media. It's not a mass media or deception. Because who have them? Who had the famous "MEGA"? I would like to say in passing that there I have been staging and I have very good feelings for all of his employees, and he has made very good series. The five parasitic oligarchs of Greece had it. Do you want me to remind you of their names? Mr Vardinoyannis, Mr Bobolas, Mr Tegopoulos, who has been coincidental, Mr President, for half a century with their construction companies, has been carrying out all the damn public works in our country. Do you want anything else to do with this? They are the same pimps that your Chief, Mr. Costas Karamanlis, named them by their name, for the first time in the newest political history. He said "there are five pimps, they can't run the test in our country." These pimps continue to test in our country, not my own responsibility and Mr Varoufakis, not Mrs Adamopoulou and Mrs Apatzides, who beat your MATs yesterday because he insists on telling the truth, but on your own responsibility and less responsibility. But for you, I'll explain later why. So the problem, Mr President, is just that. A second problem - and this is a major problem - is that anyway in these instruments it is in their nature to deceive citizens by concealing the crimes of the media themselves against citizens. On what basis does anyone expect to pay these means of objective polls? I said it clearly and I repeat it. If they don't socialize, if they don't belong to the Greek people and they're the shop of every capitalist, this capitalist will look into his interests and his certainty. He doesn't care how much to tell us what really happened. But there is another relative problem. What does this reasoning of the pollsters do? Questions, choices that make citizens are never neutral, as you know. They actually prejudge the answers. They extract citizens from action and self-organisation, turning - and this is the important thing, Mr President, in our opinion - the policy at the end of the day and the field of forecasts. I eat cards, ladies and gentlemen, and automatic scriptures have become policy rather than an action area where people are involved, down and down. In any case, yes, to open up the file of the media deportation or deception in this House, but to solve the problem and to hope for democratic information, the current regime, the ownership of all these instruments, needs to be immediately dismantled. So let's see what I mean when I say 'the world has it, and you're the one with secret pride'. I told you about the Austrian Chancellor. That's what we said. Now I'll tell you about the Pecha list, that wonderful list. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, dear Greek people, the canalarchs have received from this government directly and indirectly over EUR 60 million. Immediately, Mr President, the most famous list of Pechas, which Mr. "Metsotakis S.A." simply chose one day of the days arbitrarily and handed out the warmest public money to continue to smuggle its Government itself from a long time of livanizing. Indirect gifts, Mr President, concern payments of instalments, tax and other reductions. It is of particular value to note at what time this has happened, ladies and gentlemen, Greek people. What time? At a time of extremely thick cows for their receipts, due to three lockdowns. We were all locked in, so without any alternatives to our entertainment and information, which means that their income was huge when you decided to give them 66 million. The money ran from their balls, when you said "children's business would go bad, because of the lockdown, let's give 66 million". [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] On the other hand, at the same time, what did your Government do for the poor, small and medium-sized? What did he do? Mr President, it has decided to go bankrupt by allegedly supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in the pandemic with the famous - lame memory I would say - returnable advances of shame, of all kinds of suspensions. What did the paroles do, Minister? They just accumulated people's debts for later. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here comes the damn thing later. And now, when he arrived later, what does "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A."? Asks irritatedly without shame, without blushing back half of her borrowings. What loan? Four thousand and a thousand. It does not ask for either the list Pizza or the list "AEGEAN" nor the list "FRAPORT" or the list of toll concessionaires. These are great parasitic capitalists of Greece and exterior parasitics, "FRAPORT" and toll concessionaires. The Greeks who have a shop with an employee, their wife or child, to die with the four grand that turns two back. So why would the government do this, why would it be so timely to expose the Pecha list? You want the answer? I've got her very recent in mind. Because this paid-up status of pay-up channels has emerged on a major political issue at the time when the pandemic had begun, when no doctors were recruited to the ESS, at the time when no intensive one has increased our beds so we do not now have beds, they have a great political issue, Mr President, Mr Varoufakis HYDRA gate. And what was the famous subject after all? It was that Mr. Varoufakis had the nerve to return to his house. And what did the media do, what did they reproduce? They reproduced something that is a terrible discount and touches the limits of neo-fascism on the political situation in Greece what three ministers, parrots of the government said. Incidentally within the three parrots it was also Mr. Petsas, who said, I read it, saying that: "All of us must be equal to the law even if we are the leaders of a parliamentary party", because just Mr. Varoufakis - I repeat - had the bad habit of returning to his home. Well, the three government parrots, we know them and who they are, they know better than me. Mr. Gerapititi, you are, I think, a professor of Constitutional Law, I ask you directly. That's where Mr. Varoufakis lives. Did Mr. Varoufakis have the right to be wherever he wants, where he judges in the territory those days to see how he's going to a pandemic to see what's going on in local regional medicine? Did he or didn't he? Answer me and now with a node. You know very well that there's an article in the Constitution, because you're teaching Constitutional Law, which says it was right to be where it wanted to be unless military law had been imposed. We had no siege, Minister. But we had a parrot minister who gave 66 million by hand and so much by the window with reliefs to other parrots who snatched his parrotry, who said that we cannot discriminate against party leaders. That's the mechanism. I didn't rinse wounds like that. I don't like parthology, I hate it. I mention all this for a simple reason, because that is how this system works, so it is a major issue that a politician has come home and it becomes a trivial issue that we have not hired a doctor for twenty years. Seventy a day die, and we continue to have the courage and shame of not taking a doctor! That's how it works! Now I have to tell you some more that show exactly how you understand democracy. How the "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." concepts of democracy. Look, Mr. President. I'm reading a few phrases from the last one, which has really triggered you, I'm learning, a Dutch journalist, to understand what this is all about. "Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, when will you finally stop lying about pushbacks? When will you finally stop lying about what is happening in Greece with immigrants? Please do not insult my intelligence or the intelligence of all journalists in the world. There's too much evidence, and you go on and deny and lie. Why aren't you honest? Why don't you tell us, look at the bad intention of the journalist's assailant?' That's what they cut out of the channels they took off the Pizza list money. “ Why don’t you tell us, that people should hear it, that Brussels left us alone? We've been waiting for six years. No one has done anything and now are we forced to do reprocesses?' Business for us, the Dutch journalist says. Do you know, Mr President, what the Prime Minister is answering to her? Listen to this to get an idea of how the Prime Minister of Greece perceives freedom of the press and journalism. "I understand that in the Netherlands you have the culture to ask directly politicians, which is absolutely respected for them. For here, it's Balkans, it's not a laugh. For here, it's not respected at all. What I do not accept is that in this office you insult me and all the Greek people." I wasn't offended. Mr. Mitsotakis is making a great leap. He puts the people with him. But the people are in the dark for the reprocesses. Mr President, the Greek people have no idea that babies are being abandoned with their moms Syrians in a boat that had been removed from the machine to make shark food in the southern Aegean Sea or in our northern Aegean. That's because with the Pecha list, they're looking after what I read to you to learn half the Greek people. Watch out. "I do not accept, therefore," the Prime Minister says, "to insult this office me and the Greek people", which is not offended at all since the Greek people are in the dark for what is happening the dramatics and disgraceful in our seas, "with these accusations and expressions that are not supported by real events". Did you notice anything interesting? The Prime Minister does not say anywhere: 'We do not do re-progress'. Do you know why he doesn't say it anywhere? Because he's making reprocesses and I'm telling you it's my responsibility. Why am I responsible? Listen to who else says it but me. It has been said for a time since the international amnesty. They say this is a great anarcho-communist means, the British 'GUARDIAN', the New York FINANCIAL TIMES, the 'NEW YORK TIMES', the 'REUTERS', the German spiegel. If all of these, as I've said before, Erythroe Khmer, then obviously yes, it's against Mr. Mitsotakis. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis - to say this too - is completely losing his temper next, he says: 'Let me, have you visited the new camps on our islands? Have you been to Samos? The reporter dares to say, yes. "No, no, you haven't been to Samos. Please don't have one. Look. You're not coming to this building to insult me. I am quite clear about this. I answer now and you won't interrupt me. If you go to Samos..." which he has told him that he has gone to peace on the way. We didn't hear that, we only heard the beginning and the end. What they've been doing. Mr President, I will not be long, but I will use your time to tell you the following. We've got the case of Officer Opposition. I have listened to Mr Tsipras with great respect and with great love, as well as a kind of acquaintance that could be said by someone more than acquaintance and family links me to Alexis, the President of SYRIZA. So I just heard him say from this Step by addressing the New Democracy: "If you cannot do it anyway, because you do not have the courage to do what is needed for the pandemic, we are here where we can and we will dare do what is necessary to protect the citizens, protect the economy, protect democracy and legitimacy." But unfortunately for SYRIZA and the beloved, Mr. Tsipras, it's not the first time. It is not "the first time left", because the first time unfortunately came and went and went for five years from where he came from and you absolutely protected nothing from the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u114	I would ask you very much to complete it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u115	I will soon conclude, Mr President. I say this in the light of knowledge, and I look at you in the eyes, as I do. You did nothing, dear friends of SYRIZA, to protect the health of the citizens. You haven't hired a doctor in the wilderness for five years. [[Noise in the Chamber]] He said Mr Blonde, whom I love and I suspect: 'I am not left by Brussels.' I'll tell them and then. If you think you've deceived everything you've ever believed, then you're a prisoner for life, dear colleague. You're a prisoner, you're an exemplary prisoner. So you did not shield the ESS. Thirty thousand people were gone, you didn't even get one. And you were not really left by Brussels, but as Samara was not left. Because the treacherous Samaras also says: 'I am not left by Brussels.' For Mr Mitsotakis, we have a little doubt if Brussels does not leave him or if he does so on his own. There's a chance that he'll be so murdering that he'll do it himself. How did you protect the economy? With the abolition of the CSCE you have just been elected? Do you know what E.R.S. is? Does the world know? Do you remember what it is? It's just that little so that this earth's hunger doesn't die, the crushed one that's below the poverty line. It's your first financial measure. Repeal of the ESS. Did you protect the economy by signing primary surpluses from 3.5% to 2.1% by 2060? You signed an austerity for the next half century protecting the economy? You didn't protect her. I shall close, Mr President, to say that. What is your difference in this area we are talking about today? What's your difference? Your difference is very important and you need to understand it. What did you say? You said that these channels have been operating here for so many years and they don't give one, they have frequencies and they don't give one. He also said the flawless memory of the dear friend, Mr. Papapas, that they only fit four frequencies in the 'DIGEA' spectrum. Everyone knew they were fourteen. I'm sorry, we know from the outset they're eight. And it was obvious what you wanted to do. You wanted to get a piece of the pie. I recognize, dear, that you have dealt with the problem of Papandreou, PASOK. He came, took power, and he was alone, with all the press hostile. How does a left man think? He says: “What should I do? To balance the disinformation and deception of the Greek people? Can I call Mr. Kalogerica too so I can make him mine so I can have an answer?" Or does it say: 'Should I abolish this regime and make the means public'? I'll be right back, Mr. President. You were committed to democracy, said your Chief. You were committed to abolishing the MATs in an election. I've watched five years of MATs beating retired people nicely. The logic that "we are being stolen from us, misinformed, misinformed, are parasitic fewers, at least let us take 100 million a year" is right-wing logic, is not progressive logic. Progressive logic says no one is stealing and the means are fair. I'm sorry I was tough, but I can't hear all this. You have ruled. What did you say? That you will come and have the courage they don't have? We saw your courage, we saw it. That was your courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Giannis Ragossis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gerapitris, a great 'thank you', a sincere 'thank you' because, not only did you not oppose the proposal we have put forward for the establishment of this committee of inquiry, but in the most institutional way, you have confirmed it and legitimised it with what you have said, but above all with what you have not said. It's not what I'm using, Mr. Gerapitris. I'm explaining it. Why are we prosecuting you? Why are you resigning as a government? On three issues, for three reasons. I guess I'll say it better: For two reasons plus one. Firstly, that you have caught and given forty million euros without criteria, without rules, violating any objective principle or reasoning that one might think or adopt. Secondly, we call on you because this polling company - Mr Katsis and Mr Katrugalos have also mentioned, but also the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance previously, Mr Tsipras - has taken direct assignments of EUR 270,000, while otherwise it appears as an independent polling company and so on. And'plus one' is the issue that we raise: Where is it and why has the case-file sent by the prosecutors in this case not come to plenary? And you go up to Stepma and Mr. Catherides at first, and you talk to all scientists except them. Where are the criteria, Mr. Gerapetritis? Why didn't you say a word? You should say: 'This is not the case with 'DOCUMENTO'. We did not exclude it because we disagree with him." You should say: 'This is not the case with the editors' Newspaper'. We did not give her less than we did to "PHELLETTER" who has been lagging Mr Mitsotakis all day. We have said for example three - four examples. The faq lies six thousand positions higher than the economistas, in which you caught and gave, if I'm not mistaken, tens of thousands of euros. You came here to say a criterion, saying: 'That's not the way to do the criteria. We went and gave this money to the Greek people from their misery and not just..." - and I will say at the end something about it - 'but we have given it with these rules. This is what applies to the European Union, to what applies to other countries, to what applies to Greece or to it, so we have done so." Where are these criteria? Where are the rules? 'Kich', you did not say, Mr Gerapetiti, and that is why we thank you very much. Why have you legalised and confirmed the proposal that we have made that, yes, the House must set up this committee of inquiry. Did you come here to say that you didn't give the opinion poll 270,000? You came here to say that you didn't do this directly? Where is one element, one information - give us - which, at the end of the day - will make us think again and say that we should not, shouldn't be, 'we should'. Nothing, Mr. Gerapetite. Nothing! However, this 'nothing' is the absolute confession of political guilt by the government for what we denounce and prosecute. But it is not just you, Mr Gerapetti, who have confirmed us and legitimized us. He's another colleague of yours. Is it possible for Mr Petsas to be indulged for such serious ethical disrespect and not to come to the House today to say his opinion, to defend himself? Where's Mr. Petchas, Mr. Gerapitri? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You, as an attorney, may rehearse what Mr. Pechas will meet in the course of Mr. Pechas. But Mr. Petsas did not feel today the need to come and say that "all Greece is talking about this Petsa scandal, Parliament, the Members of the New Democracy". Unless, Mr Gerapetritis, Mr Petsas came not only because in this way he confesses his political guilt, but he did not come and tell us and therefore tell the Greek people and something else by sending a message. What Mr Katrugalos said earlier, 'It's not a pesca list, don't blame me. It is a 'list Mitsotakis'. Let Gerapitris come to take out the chestnuts from the fire that you had me give from here and there the money of the Greek people." Maybe. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, however, the absence of Mr Petsa is the ultimate confirmation of the correctness and political and moral legitimacy of our proposal. I shall mention two - three more points, which we cannot leave unanswered. What can I say now, Mr. Gerapetri? We all understood. I will only say one example, because it is a personal matter for you and you should not do that. We are all aware of the way in which Mr Tsipras referred to this. They've shredded our ears from what Mr. Tsipras said and not just ours, all media journalists. And he gave you the opportunity to come here and contradict them. But all you have decided to do was insult and attack, but that is your personal matter. We do not control this proposal, nor the journalists, Mr Gerapitris, the media, nor the investigation companies. We control the government and we have an obligation to control the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u118	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u119	And we're not doing a media committee or an opinion poll. We are doing a final analysis of democracy, about freedom of the press, about independence of the press, about public money, about Greek taxpayers, about merit, about objectivity, about the rules, about the criteria on the basis of which they should go, be civilized, and the country should be governed, not by this regime, the anachronistic, old-fashioned party in which you have once again immersed it, remembering the 'good' of the 'comfortable' EPE and the old right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will take three minutes from my second speech, Mr President, and I will hold a five-minute. You spoke of deported and insulted media from us and offended journalists. Really, Mr. Gerapetite? Who offends and who despises the media? Do you know who? The person who comes out on an international scale in front of the international media and says that in the Netherlands they are used to asking direct questions, meaning that in his country this is not happening. This is a heavy insult to Greek journalists, what Mr Mitsotakis did the other day. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's about funding part of the journalists or the media with the "Pezasas composer". That's disgraceful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u120	Mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u121	And you know, bigger disdain and bigger offense to whom they are, Mr. Gerapitris? It is not for the ‘Preservers' Newspaper’, ‘AGEY’, ‘DOCUMENTO’ and so on. It is also about the serious newspapers and media of your proposition, which you smack and which, if you followed criteria and rules, would not be those classified in the category of the media of Furthiotis, economistas, the "PHILTER". And after all, with what you do you deceive them, you insult them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Two more points to close. We raise the issue of polling. Can't you at some point go to your mind, instead of resorting to this easy rhetoric that "SYRIZA says that because it doesn't suit him by polling" that this is, in the end, about the very essence of the political world and not just democracy as a general concept? Public opinion polls as manipulation mechanisms, Mr Gerapitris, are not only mechanisms for manipulating public opinion in relation to the intention of voting for the parties. It's also in relation to the faces, it's also in relation to the ministers. Has it been revealed or not revealed by the "Preservers' Newspaper" that your colleague, Mr. Georgiadis, had to take him out first among the Ministers - not among the SYRIZA executives, among you - had he captured and gave direct assignments? Aren't you, colleagues in the New Democracy, haven't you? Or will you not suffer all this when the same companies with the same mechanisms of non-institutional use of public money come out on the eve of the elections and say 'in the last region, Tasoulas, first, the Paculas', why would the same mechanism have moved? So it's just a matter of protecting a party, of counterpopulation, of small parties? It's all of the political world. In conclusion, I would like to say this: there is something worse, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, in this case - not only in this case, but since we are discussing this - of all that we have seen so far. And that is a big difference not only with Austria, Mr Kurts, but also with the big problem as a whole. And it's the big problem, because in the end, Mr. Gerapetritis, you will leave. The Greek people will send you away sooner or later, they will send you away as soon as we say. So these can be restored. And procedures can also enter rules and criteria and transparency...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u122	Finish, Mr. Ragossi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. But what you are doing, Mr Gerapitris, is that these millions of euros you are literally squandering in this vulgar political way, are not made out of surpluses that the country had until before, are made through deficits, they are made out of debt. You owe the country every day by taking these tens of millions - and not only, but all that we have denounced you, 5 billion has been counted by Mr Tsipras, and you have not said 'kitch' about it - and you are wasting it to buy popularity and the government and your people. And this is the greatest guilt you have, Mr Gerapetritis, because you are using the country's deficits and debts to buy out the popularity of the government, the Prime Minister's popularity and to immerse the Greek people once again in this temptation that every time it comes in when, of course, the country is overloaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Gerapititi, a lost Friday is today. A lost Friday! We lost our day. You know, before I actually get in, I want to tell you some things. You told us about the right - together we were all working here, those who participated in the Constitutional Review - to the minority for the two proposals per parliamentary term. It was not the essence of this debate, today, which party was more galantom and gave this right. We're talking about a system rot. We have come to talk about rot, if that is true - which we say is true - and if you recognize it. In other words, trying to tell us that what we are living - I will tell you what we are living for - is as if you are trying to convince us now that it is night out. It's not night, it's daytime. Mr. Gerapetritis, you know we don't blame the journalists. We blame you and your bars. We blame you on your underground routes. We blame you - the government, not you personally - and your best friends. Do you know what proof is that we are right about what we say about pluralism and freedom of speech? You're a professor, I'm a journalist. Twenty-seven years of badges. You'll allow me to know the system. The proof, Mr. Gerapetritis, is that tonight in the news releases will not play for one second a line of the President or a Member of the Greek Solution. That's the proof. He's not gonna play anything. We don't exist. We're invisible! We don't exist! I would like you to answer me, Mr Gerapetititi, then if you would agree to that. We'll put in the 20:00 cards, 19:00 and play nothing. We don't exist! New Democracy will play, your cohort will play with Mr. Tsipras, the Chief of Officer's Anti-Population, maybe a little - there is no President of PASOK now - Mr. Scandalides, and that's it. Tripartite House. There's nothing else, Mr. Gerapetri. This is the great proof that this system exists. And I want to ask you - and answer me - this: Do you like this? No, Mr. Gerapetritis, journalists are not sold, as you asked before. Journalists aren't sold. It's not the journalists' fault. They're captives. They work, they have families and they take orders from above and they say, "You will not play the night Velopoulos", "you will not play the evening of the KEI", "you will not play Greek Solution". What will the reporter do, Mr. Gerapetri? Will he play and lose his job? Are you serious? No, journalists aren't sold. You asked some questions. Yes or no, Mr. Gerapitris, in pluralism? Do you agree or disagree with pluralism? Yes or no isology? Yes or no in democracy? Answer us and tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, but say it. If you say yes, what we are experiencing as a country is not a democratic one. It is unacceptable and you yourself must denounce it. You cannot even recognize that there is a problem. You can't even recognize it! You spoke of pluralism in the media. What kind of pluralism is that? Tell us a little bit. Two and a half years we've been in the House. I do not think there is any man in here, no matter how many political disagreements we have, ideologically, who does not recognize the work, the offer, the proposals, the consistency, the labour force of the Greek Solution or the level of MPs. Is there one in here? One! Tell me one! It is possible, Mr Gerapetti, that a Member of Parliament - one - has not been invited for two and a half years! - on a channel? One! One, you guys, let's statue him, show him, throw him darts! A congressman! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Leave ERT alone. I'm talking about private channels. ‘MEGA’, ‘STAR’, ‘SCAI’, ‘ALPHA’, all private channels. One! Is it possible for me to have nineteen years of trademarks in the "ANT1" group and never to have been invited? Mr. Gerapetritis, I have best friends in there, and you know what they say to me? "Hey, Costa, don't we? We can't.’ [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Do you understand what I'm saying? That's the rot. And I'm not saying it to you to set it up. I say this to accept that there is a problem and that this is not a democratic one. That's what I'm telling you. If you don't admit there's a problem, we won't solve it. That's the situation. The tango wants two, Mr. Gerapitri. Some people don't decide for themselves. There are underground routes. The channels don't belong to four hundred. It's one. He can be a big businessman, he can be a contractor, he can be a shipowner with whom you relate and do jobs. Spit 'em out, take 'em down, block 'em out. That's the system. Do you want to admit it? You don't want to? We'll have other lost days in here if you don't admit them. That's the truth. If you want. And I saw SYRIZA too. Where I am, you were where I am, you're coming. That's the power. Whoever gets power wants to control the media. I've lived it a hundred thousand times in my skin. What am I going to say, it's not like that? That's right. And what are you gonna say now? Boss, etc. Guys, now, funny situations. That's the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will take three minutes from my dentistry. And I am proud that since the first day our President and all the Members of Parliament have said 'yes' to freedom of the press, 'yes' to the independence of journalists who want to be independent, to have informed citizens, to listen to us and then to us. Listen to me, don't hit. Listen to us first, give us the right to speak and let us be rejected. They might like us. But let's talk. Give us some room to move. You have transformed public money - because it is not New Democracy's money, from the 350,000,000 owed by your party, it is the Greek people's money - to a means of distorting reality to your benefit. You forget, of course, these bubbles are sometimes digging and making noise. It's gonna blow up sometime too hard. You manage public money as if it were the field you inherited from your grandfather. It's not your money to do whatever you want. It's not your money! It's money you waste to manipulate the media, it's Greek taxpayer's money, which bleeds to give you every month. And you, instead of somehow returning them to society, use them to have a paid blue army to inform the world as you want. The people, Mr. Gerapetritis, say this: show me your friend to tell you who you are. In the press, we say this: Show me your ads to tell you who you are and what you're doing. That's what we're talking about in the press. And if you go into a media and see through all the public works all over the public sector, ESRB banks, etc., you'll understand what's going on. That's the truth. That's the reality. In all this - and I am closing - Mr President, yesterday and Article 191 of the Criminal Code to check everything out. To ban different opinion, to ban freedom of the press, to ban diversity. No, you're gonna control everything you say, you're not allowed to have another point of view. And completely lame, open you left it, it can create suspicions of fear and everything else. Who's gonna judge that? But don't talk. I said it yesterday during the debate on the Criminal Code. Unfortunately, what we are experiencing - and if you like, personally as a party, we - in general, the political - regret to say so - refer to neighbouring-country techniques. Greece is the cradle of democracy. We can't find another way. What can I say? I see colleagues in here. I see them on the channels, and I'm happy and I'm really jealous of them. I don't know what we've done, guys. I don't know what kind of message we should send to the TVs to call us. We are a structured parliamentary group, composed of professionals of life, years of economists, pilots, journalists, businessmen who work and come here because the people have decided, the Greek citizens, and we want to express ourselves, but the system does not allow us. The system you control. That's the truth. Look at it and give it solutions. Otherwise, stay in the knots with SYRIZA and meaningless conversations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u128	We continue with Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Paliura from the New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mrs. Evangelia Ligolia from the Change Movement will take the floor. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would ask you very much to remember only that Mr Katsis of the SYRIZA spoke for 10 minutes. I would like to begin with the following: 'an unscrupulous and intertwined leader group and a reproach for the SYRIZA leadership and reveals a situation of rot and self-interest that had prevailed in the party that ruled the country for five years'. The former Minister of SYRIZA, Mr. Kontonis. A ruthless and intertwined leadership team. This is because today SYRIZA appears to be an honourer of everything and because, as Mr Gerapitris has really pointed out, former Prime Minister Tsipras spent at least ten minutes in the resignation of Mr Kurts. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] I would like to begin my speech with that. Basically, with the phenomenon of butterfly, which is a poetic transfer to the theory of the Chaos on the phenomenon of the sensitive dependence of a system on the initial conditions, where an infinite change in the flow of events leads after some time to a development of the history of the system, dramatically different from that which would have taken place if this change had not occurred. So in a paradoxical, almost claustrophe, I would dare say, version of the theory of Chaos, the resignation of the Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurts was the perfect legend that sought two years ago, in order to simulate Austrian evolution in Greek reality, to build its new, inexpensive, unpolitical rhetoric. So, failing to turn the game back and actually find itself in a panic situation, since two years after the elections, the weakness of the Kumbuduru and its Chief has been seen to break off from the low-popular results, despite the huge challenges and crises that the present government has been called upon to face, to receive the messages sent by society for the regularity of destruction and the resetting of the split speech and rhetoric of the irresponsible and unresponsive impulse of '14 and '15', but also to justify their inadequacy on key issues for the country and society, seek responsibilities, in addition to the well-known barbarians, in the media, as well as in polling companies. The truth, of course, is that the authors of the proposal for the Committee of Inquiry describe a virtual falsified reality very simply because the prolonged precipitation of the SYRIZA, as described in almost all of the polls, the inherent weakness of the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, even passes anyone in the suitability for the Prime Minister, but also the fact that the government has since taken up its duties and for almost two consecutive years until now retained its percentages, causing triumphs and anxiety in Kumbudur and certainly leads to reactions, similar to those which the party of Official Representation is used to, trying to go through the attack, allegedly complaining of interests and interventions. There is, however, one, ladies and gentlemen, of the Officerial Response, a discrepancy between us and you. We're not the same. And we are not the same, because as our Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, recently pointed out, it separates us from a cultural, moral, aesthetic and political chasm. This is clearly evidenced by the fact that it was the one who recommended the substantial strengthening of parliamentary control, proposing before the 2019 elections to his proposal for the Constitutional Review, that the minority be granted the right to submit proposals for setting up committees of inquiry. A proposal, which demonstrates the institutional way in which it perceives the importance of parliamentary control in government actions, which has received flesh and bone in the recent constitutional review under Article 68(2), an article that was launched at the initiative of the New Democracy, which SYRIZA is exploiting and using today. So we, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, today can only be truly happy that you acted on a right, a possibility that we institutionalised. This is because we, in contrast to you in your attitude and reaction to the past, as regards, for example, the setting up of committees of inquiry, both for Mr Papagelopoulos and Mr Papapas, two of the top incidental ministers during your five-year government, assumptions which are currently under control by Greek justice, have nothing to hide. We have nothing to fear at all, because we have, first of all, done with regard to the communication campaign 'We stay at home - we are staying safe', with all legal and fully transparent procedures, what was envisaged, not only by the national law, but also by the law of the European Union and always in an absolute match with the directives of the European Commission and of the European Council. I would like at this point to refer to the document, which Mr Tsipras presented in the Minutes, misleading once again the Greek people and Parliament - trying to mislead - where on the second page it is clear that the view expressed in this document - which is not an official document of the Council of Europe, but a platform in which journalists can testify to any complaints or complaints, without of course taking a stand on this - is an opinion of the authors and not an official view of the Council of Europe. Because some things really need to be cleared up at some point. Therefore, the prototypes of exceptional and urgent circumstances, which have arisen as a result of the coronary, have, in fact, imposed the immediate activation of a mechanism, i.e. acts of legislation. In other words, those instruments which, according to the Constitution, are adopted by the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Ministerial Council, to settle an emergency, extremely urgent and unforeseen case. Who can tell us, then, today and the Greek people that the pandemic crisis was not really an urgent and urgent need, where it had to be settled on the basis of legislative acts? We also need to say at this point that we, New Democracy, actually, anticipated that regional instruments should be given a percentage of the 20% grants, which we have won. So we have taken a communication and information campaign which has been quickly unfolded and which has literally saved many lives. And it is worth mentioning here that according to the chairman of the EIT of the regional weekly newspapers, Antonis Mundakis, for the first time after decades, all the weekly newspapers in the country, independent of colour, have been given the ad "We stay home - we stay safe". This fact is further demonstrated, not only by the relevant table submitted to the Greek Parliament by the relevant Minister with the thousands of two hundred and thirty instruments involved in the information campaign, effectively covering the entire territory, but also by the fact that the political position of an instrument has never been ruled out in the information campaign. On the other hand, media participated, which strongly criticise the work of the government, such as the "SGEI", the "Recipients' Newspaper", the "RISOPASTI", the radio station "STO COKINO" and others. As far as the polling companies are concerned, it is true, in fact, that this is not the first time SYRIZA has turned against them. Once again following the well-known tactic of bowling, in order to give the impression to his executives and fans that the companies operate with other benefits than the government, what did he do? He naturally put them in his sights. It should therefore be recalled at this point that its own officials and mainly partners of their own government officials rushed to create polling companies in order to show another picture, as was done in the period before the 2019 elections, when friends close to the communal media spoke of a difference in the limits of SYRIZA's statistical error or even a victory prediction of SYRIZA. It should also be recalled that, during the period of its own governance, unprecedented interventions were observed in justice and the mediation landscape in order to manipulate public opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u130	Mrs. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u131	Just a minute, Mr President, and thank you. So we, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, because it is not you, say 'no' to any policy of deception. We will not follow SYRIZA to the vulgarity of 'not everything' and 'yes to nothing'. Because we believe above all in the humanism and the moral dimension of the country's political life. That is why we say 'yes' to spilling light everywhere. We say "yes" to an enlarged committee of inquiry, with neutral wording, which will check all of our things from 2015 onwards, both in the question of state funding and in the functioning of local companies. We are here waiting for SYRIZA and the other opposition parties to stand up to the circumstances and accept enlargement from 2015, with a neutral institutional wording of the proposal and an objective basis. We're here waiting for you, just because we're not afraid of the truth. How about you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, please, there is tolerance, but I think it should be for a few minutes, not twice as long. Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with great appreciation for your face, particularly for the cultivation of your style, the truth today is that it is not at all pleasant to have this debate and we must say so before any discussion. Generally speaking, when we talk about wounded democracy, which is a rustle between us in Parliament's chambers, it is only natural that no one can say happy. Aristophanes at the "Horniths" would say " democracy, which was never before". Where are you taking us, where are you going to travel us and where are you going to reach us, you republic? So he had wondered about this democracy, ladies and gentlemen, which we all stand for. I, too, think that we are all here really to defend her. But are we finally doing it? It is true that there are very large issues, issues of time, issues that have arisen but also issues that have arisen. I think, of course, that, as we speak, between the furious honesty, both from the standpoint and from the standpoint of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. You are controlled for the Peshas list and for media dependencies, with the headlines, with the Prime Minister, my Minister, rather than the cold ones, and on the other hand SYRIZA who, recently and freshly, in this Chamber and in this Step, discussed reports of top executives, the most famous “white house” with all the joints of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u134	“White porscha” is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u135	Yes, we carried it, made it more Greek in order to make it understandable. So all this, which compose a scene that, if a ordinary citizen comes to observe the debate in Parliament today, he will say that he has probably come from another year, he has been in a parallel universe and has nothing to do with the previous life. Democracy, after constant struggles and claims, has guaranteed us great progressive areas, important political and social conquests, which the country is enjoying today. But in any case, we are today defending democracy, which must go ahead and must preserve basic ideological principles and values. In other words, there is no democracy which operates without a worthy and institutional code, in which I think we should all agree. Our party is talking about this because, as far as the independent authorities are concerned, with regard to clarity, as regards the progressive mark in democracy is concerned, it has set its backs, not to say that it has built the foundations many times, Minister, and you are well aware of it. So the question raised today by the Qualified Opposition, in which we will be voting in favour of this proposal and have announced it, as we always have voted in favour of the proposals for the setting up of committees of inquiry, so that it is all in the light, therefore, that this proposal raises questions as to whether democracy is a problem for us, for the quality of democracy, for the way in which democratic institutions operate, whether they are the phenomenon of the current government or have always existed. For example, I will say a few things about the concerns of society. It is true that pandemic has raised the phenomena, unfortunately, of poor legacy and at the same time dependency, passionateness and total lack of transparency. Unfortunately, I regret to say this because in the area of at least internal and public administration, I ask questions, Minister, every week, which you can monitor, and your government has reached the point that the civil servants, who are trained in lifelong training, are making travel abroad, even those who are chosen on a non-transparent basis. We don't know the criteria, we ask you a question about that. So here you have to see the thing again. Here we must discuss clearly the conclusion of public contracts, such as the direct assignments of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, such as the support of great private interests. Democracy must be based on values and institutions, and above all on its control, self-control and control, and then on transparency, free pluralist information and impartial information. The democracy of your own government, unfortunately, is far from overestimated by what I have just described. In the last two years, the government has managed, with absolute opaque and underground handling, to control most of the media. You've got a raisin! That's what we've been telling you all this morning. You see, no one's just a zipping in the morning on the channels and you see the same people and people, even from you. Not all of you are chosen, they are chosen themselves. Isn't that a reflection? Is it a way that democracy works, that a Member should not have the opportunity to hear his voice, the smaller parties? What pluralism then exists in democracy when you speak and I cannot answer? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u136	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u137	Am I right? But who directs this, who creates it? Is it alone? It's made, isn't it? The media headed it? They want to do it. Oh, no. They're forced to do it. Why are they forced to do it? They are forced to do so because precisely, Minister, they must survive within a regime which is created for their survival. Is that healthy for democracy? They're not healthy for democracy. Here, then, we must set specific rules on the operation, criticism, control, accountability, and, of course, we must try to govern you with opposition in any case. It is dangerous to rule without opposition. Is it reasonable to give the Greek people the view that the New Democracy is ruling without opposition? It doesn't make sense. Why are they asking us that on the street? They ask to us in the Change Movement, they ask in the KKE, in Mera25, in the Greek Solution. Why do they say that the New Democracy governs without Opposition? Why? Because opposition is not heard, the voices of opposition are not heard, the different views are not heard. I'm not talking about the ruthless screams. You know, at least, I'm trying to avoid this, and it's a misdemeanor, so we can't make it. But, indeed, we should consider in advance that we agree on the major issues, which are the rules that must be applied in democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would remind you that the stubborn Fofi Gennimata is due to the publicity of the famous Pecha list of state advertising in the media. It is money that has been shared without transparency. It's 20 million euros you secretly shared. A second list was followed in the same scandalous way and you closed your ears in the proposal to set criteria for the financing of instruments with social sensitivity and merit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u138	Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u139	Yes, Mr President, I will summarise and conclude. Thank you for your tolerance. Unfortunately, this came yesterday to show your mentality, Minister. Article 191 of the Criminal Code, which speaks of the way in which a report is essentially compiled and how it is presented, even its title - if you look at the interpretation of this article - you should take the Greek people off the streets at a great demonstration. If we did not have the pandemic, that would be what you legislated yesterday, depended on the name of the make news, but it is entirely up to the media of what one considers to be a problem and concern to the public or a danger to the national interest, etc., etc. So that shows a concept and a mentality. Also, for polling companies - and I conclude - the way in which the matter should be presented is for us 'all in light'. The way in which this is done, the way in which the working group is formed, the way in which a questionnaire is being made, all of this is not in the light and must be in the light. Accept our suggestions. Today let this debate at least be of benefit to something. The proposals, which have been heard by our parliamentary representative, with great experience and great diameter, in my view, Kostas Scandalidis, that an intergroup with the participation of the ESA, Minister, for institutional safeguarding of journalists with the blocks, the people who take the pain block every day and the promotion of culture and history with the money of this House. My last sentence is: stop simply in opposition, say that it is childish behaviour. Why should I tell you something? It's not smart as you connect the opposition to the child, connect it to innocence. Do you keep for yourself what? The grey one, the one who knows how to handle everything well and regulates it, but who can be capable of everything? Think about it. I think you need to take the issue from the outset, so that we can talk on a different basis, certainly for our democracy on other terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u141	But, Mr President, eleven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u142	Time will go on. From what I understand, you all want...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u143	She's not a rapporteur!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Kefaliannis, a moment ago Mr. Markopoulos said for ten minutes. Now you're saying why he talked. You have to decide which process we are. Here, Mr Papadimitriou, you have the floor for five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u145	Let's take it to eight minutes. I don't care. I'd like ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Marcopoulou, I don't know what's of interest to you. However, your New Democracy colleagues do not agree with you. That's a problem. Look at it. Please, Mr Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, with the setting-up of the Committee of Inquiry, SYRIZA seeks unacceptable, undemocratic, unconstitutional and illegal dignified, guidance and submission of free, undefeased and undivided journalism. Just stuff. He wants to scare the journalists, wants to dictate them the way they do their jobs and when they are not good, to report them to Parliament and wherever else he can. It is completely unacceptable and it seems from the way you choose to bring as supposedly completely insecure, completely insecure evidence. You bring a so-called report here - Mr Tsipras called it, if possible! - of the European Council, while you are well aware that the Council lists opinions of people, working groups and are free. But in her and all the others that you have brought one thing, there is - the same roaming left - right - that has a name. Run, build up against the country no matter what, and you can find somewhere a little forum to take you seriously. You're talking about a ranking on which the country is very low. Austria is in the seventeenth place, too high. And yet, you use this to say that Greece is low. The United Kingdom is in its thirty-third place, Italy in the forty-fourth, first, the United States in the forty-fourth. Mongolia alone is a little better than us. You bring this list to Parliament and say that we are being condemned by the international community of free journalists. With a text of a man who was shot and killed. You didn't even notice that he sign it and sign it with the conscience of the good man. I have nothing more to add to all these things. You're building an algae to defend a non-publisher. I've said it publicly two months ago, you ask. He was the chief editor of this instrument in the same panel. They asked me and I said: I do not consider the 'DOCUMENTO' to be a journalistic instrument, ladies and gentlemen. And I say, if you want, with my almost thirty years experience, that this is not journalism. You want to defend it? Do it. Do it straight. Say it: We want to defend Vaxebana. I'm fine with it. Everything is free in this place. But it is true that it is your party that exposed the country, when it sought it, that tried to bring licenses that would exclude not only traditional media, media that had history, but also anyone else would not be pleasing. Fortunately, the Council of State found you, namely, urban democracy on your way and prevented you. But then again you tried to do that, bringing even financial resources. How can you say there are tactics of influence and compulsion? When did anyone get the time, Gerapetite, get to practice these practices? How can you say that the government is planning and carrying out a press driving strategy? Where did you see the press riding? I've been watching him for forty years from a different position before entering journalism, I don't think it's possible to do what you're saying. Are you judging the odds yourself? Is there any way you know him and we don't know him? The completely unreasonable and unrealistic you claim, gentlemen of Officerial Response, is that, because the state has rightly financed it - a public health information campaign in emergencies and against an extremely dangerous pandemic, each one of them separately and individually accepted and obeyed orders. That's insulting. It's hundreds, there's thousands of people working in the press. The people who were going out and going to hospitals, who were going where the problem was, to the village that hadn't been vaccinated and weak today, now, the day before, you say they're being guided? By who? That's just for babies. You're good at one thing, I admit it, you build myths and on the myths you build, you try to prove things. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, the repulsive your claim is, so completely insulting it is, and that is why it was either ignored or condemned by journalists, with few exceptions, which are your selective affinity. All the others did and said, "Let it be said, they are not gleaning what quality, let them be." They host you, opinions are always predicted in the same way. I'm not saying it's always the best, my tastes, but it's in the same way, the same bad, good, as you want to say, but in the same way. I think it is easy to oppose your claim and the hundred examples in the way in which the journalistic work is being done. It's as usual. Besides, the epidemic - think about the little politically, thank God - is an obstacle to the government, is an obstacle to the work of the majority, an obstacle to highlighting a series of things which are important and which have been done and which, unfortunately, have been covered by all the pandemics, which are covered by the debate and by Turkey's threat. There about, in this we cannot guide anyone, and it would also be crazy to try to do so. In short, the Civic Opposition is clearly lying and it is a pity that a new and serious possibility of parliamentary control begins with an aggressive effort towards the foundations of democracy and free opinion and finally of journalism. As long as I welcome the exercise of this new possibility of controlling government acts, especially when it comes to the way in which public and state money is managed, I am self-evidently rejecting and will vote against the reasoning and, in particular, the charges against journalists, who are hypocritically using the SYRIZA's line with its request. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Papadimitriou ended all by himself. Mr. Theophilos Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me make a pre-introduction observation. Firstly, the debate concerns media owners. Secondly, the honourable Member, who is a carnage of journalists' flesh, said that in his view 'DOCUMENTO' does not constitute journalism and is therefore not on the lists. In legal omissions there is a narrative, which I do not know if it is true, which says that in the days of the division between Venizelic and royal royality murdered Venizelic and the judge, who was philosophical, acquitted him on the grounds that he did not consider him human, considered him less than human beings and therefore the subjective situation is not haunted. So you understand what a slippery road you're opening with these locations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important day for the institutional order and for the parliamentary tradition that we are starting to create. Today, for the first time, the opposition, the minority may set up a committee of inquiry. And while it is a conquest of the parliamentary culture, and here it should be a day of institutional satisfaction, both you, Minister, and the majority rapporteur, have made sure that you get close, that you shorten it, that you bring it to the fore. I would therefore like to say in the most emphatic way that this decision or rather that position was a recommendation from the New Democracy, but if it were not SYRIZA who voted in favour of this position in the House, it would not come to the review to make a provision of the Constitution. Therefore, for the self-evident reasons, when we cannot understand and strive for who has the largest share, or rather for someone having no share in it, we do not actually serve this very serious institutional conquest. The minority proposal for the establishment of the committee of inquiry also creates political data. The fact that SYRIZA's proposal has succeeded in rallying counterpopulation on its own shows a dynamic one. And don't tell me that all those who sign the proposal take the view that you are expressing it, because you really want to hide the problem under the carpet. Here is a problem, which has nothing to do with polls or with publications, which has to do with how state money was moved. We're all concerned. We're not guinea pigeons and honorers. We want the truth to be investigated. The fact that millions have been given, without criteria, is crucial, ladies and gentlemen. If you were to say that it is some criteria on the basis of which we distribute the money, we would understand that we would disagree on the criteria, but in any case we would say that there is a rationale. There is no criterion. There is no criterion, except for friends of adjacent media - I am talking about media, not journalists - and that is why we consider it to be the responsibility of the National Representation. There is a survey and we say: This survey was carried out without complying with the conditions of the poll. Who ordered her? It comes from the law, it's a legal obligation. Who paid her? The way the investigation was carried out? In other words, we don't fight polling, we find ourselves against this, because it has shadows. And instead of coming and saying, yes, there really didn't seem to be any evidence that answers questions and see it, you start and make stories of what we did with the Pappa law. By the way, let me say, in order not to create impressions, that the Pappa law was not declared void, it was not invalidated as a whole. It was annulled because the PSE was responsible for proclamation. The individual provisions shall remain intact. So don't smuggle. I shall therefore return to the agenda and say. We put it in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, because for us, the functioning of the press is a matter of democracy. With ingenuities and tricks, we didn't talk about it. What other solution was left, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? The solution that the Constitution gives us was to come and tell Parliament's minority, come to see these two important issues. There is a report coming out and I thank you, Mr Minister, for not mentioning those who have made the references because they are not private, they are not public and they cannot defend their opinion here. Thank you in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, too, but the names have been posted on a site. So they've become a public document.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u151	I know, but it's not about him here, that's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u153	I acknowledge it and say this: a reference is pending from 21 May. Doesn't her luck concern anyone? Why doesn't she come and see what we're gonna do? So you realise that the initiative that we have is an absolutely institutional initiative, is based on the facts of specific issues both in terms of the poll, in terms of the lack of criteria for the distribution of this money, and it is something that the National Delegation must deal with. We invite you to see it. We invite you to assemble, because from this story we will all win. Yannis Ragus was a storm, developing the range of arguments. From an evacuated press, from a press off mission, we all get hit. And when we don't all put back on the press so that the press can get the tracks, the press-to-people in a democracy, the consequences will be tragic for us and for the political system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou for the time. Now Mr. Dimitris Markopoulos will speak from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we relax a little - it has been hours - to do another examination on the documents that the Chief of Staff Response presents at times, Mr. Tsipras. It is unthinkable that he presented as a report by the Council of Europe, essentially as an official document, the protest of a Greek newspaper. Mercy. Mercy and a little seriousness. Also, Mr. Tsipras was indisputable again. Why did he say? That we brought the issue of polling into the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Obviously, it concealed or does not know - it is worse not to know - that Law No.3603/2007, the Rousopoulos Act, provides that, as far as the public sector is concerned, there is the Public Opinions and Research Committee, and at the same time it can go to the PSE and then come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. So here again Mr. Tsipras was indisputable. I also heard Mr Katrugalo say with great interest that maybe less than 1% of the pandemic advertising took SYRIZA's media. Please, to make it easier for us, name them, to find out. What are those means? And also, tell us a little about their readers, about the hits on the internet, things and tools that exist on the market. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that today we are living the logic of irrationality. SYRIZA is the only party that placed Minister of State, that is, Minister of State within the Maximos Megaron, a pollster, Mr. Vernardakis. Parenthesis: I haven't seen Mr. Bernardakis here today. It's not going too far. We hope he'll be here any minute. In SYRIZA's day we watched a series of polling companies just before the European elections and just before the 2019 national elections to flee like mushrooms. Is this the Vox Pop Analysis, really, the 'BRIDGING EUROPE', these companies exist today? I personally searched and didn't even find their sites. SYRIZA swears Stelios Pecha. SYRIZA never made a list of where he gave money to the media. On the day of SYRIZA - because you said about the media, you said about "PHILLETER" - there were new mushrooms - Mr Papa, you also have knowledge of the particular species - the newspaper "THONI", "NEA PAGE". Did you know that? SYRIZA ordered that they do not get unfavourable media ads from the DPOs, even from private companies, and when the time comes for the committee, we will say names. So, SYRIZA is an honorer in all this? Don't be ridiculous. The project is organised and includes specific coordinates. Coordinates, telling the measuring companies to have restraint and self-criminality. He even said, because, you know, I know the place well, a few days ago and a well-known pollster, maybe he has relations with you, with a board of CEDEFOP that said to a known company: "Boy boy, and you now presented Tsipras with 20%? Put a 24% mark on it." Bulling politics hides this process, populist and political bowling. Now, do you know what the new plan predicts? The selective attack by pollsters because they are receiving government jobs. I remember attack in February 2021 by thirty-seven SYRIZA MPs against the Marc company because they implied that there was some sort of incompatibility between polling companies and the projects they take in the public sector. Mr. Vernardakis, when he worked with VPRC or other companies, did he do business with the public? I'd like to hear him. Why didn't you put him inside the speakers today? You've ruled for four and a half years. So since this incompatibility bothered you, why didn't you legislate? Tell us about it. Really, tell us. Has Mr. Vernardakis supported his professional activity, lived his family from public activities? We expect answers and we will hear them all in this committee if it is finally voted on today. I also see attacks against the company 'OPINION POLL' and the analyst Mr Zuppi. Does Mr. Vernardakis know Mr. Zuppi? Do they even have any communications recently? Are there e-mails? Let's see everything. Let's see everything. The newspaper "Parapolistic" a few days ago - and I present the document - Saturday 23 October presented an invoice from "OPINION POLL" to your party, SYRIZA. In 2017, the job was done. You delayed it, of course, and I would ask him to pass on to the Minutes. You did, of course, slow him to pay for it for two years. Maybe because he asked for his money somewhere and you said? "Will you see what's wrong with you?" Zeppie's bad now, good then. Isn't that right? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Markopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We must also understand why a retired pollster, Ilias Nikolakopoulou - something I hear that he has an appeal lately - has been talking to the SYRIZA area - has complained that this company, 'OPINION POLL', is not a member of the CEDEFOP. Your President just now said he was a member of the CEDEFOP, and as far as I know Mr Nikolakopoulou is concerned he is also in court. I don't know, is Mr. Nicholas your partner? However, it is highly articulated for you. So, by means of 'OPINION POLL', but also by other companies, are you seeking to go to a project? Is he hiding something else? A temptation and a bad inspiring effort to get involved in the internalities of other bodies? This is where Mr. Tsipras also wondered about the polls in KINAL. I will recall, because you know that I have a very good memory, that Mr. Tsipras was on Antonis Schroyter when he said a while ago that there was intervention in the inner part of the Change Movement because leaders were counted. From where and as your Chief will appoint a private company when, who, and how, will they count? Is it because you want to manipulate the internal party elections of another political body you who are denouncing manipulation? And do you even get in front of a great effort like this so that it doesn't all exist? I'll see you when the time comes and the time will come. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to get far, SYRIZA, by distorting the constitutional meaning of a truly crucial, great reform for which the New Democracy is very proud and that reform is ours, and it is historic that today's debate in this House is fading once again into what it is well aware of: in political games of impression. But the Minority's people should know that. Our institutional attitude does not conceal weakness. As a majority - and we will see all of this in the future, in the very near future - we have our rights in full, rights, which - believe me, because I know this place very well - will illuminate unknown aspects, date with publishers, pollsters, contacts, message exchanges. All this has to come to the light to see what the real truth is. Rights that - believe me - will bring up defenders of those who think - Ha! I'd like to laugh a little-- now they're attacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u156	Thank you. Although I participate in the Change Movement as President now, I would like to ask you all. Although we thank you for your interest in our elections, I hope your organized fans will not deal with our own elections from whatever party. We thank you, however, for every day you are interested in developments in the Change Movement! [[Noise in the Chamber]] We know you guys, we all know you! Mrs Konnakka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Does the terms and criteria with which millions of public money were distributed to the media need to be investigated and whether the way it was done created favourable conditions - or more favourable - to strengthen public control and manipulation? Of course, and it is necessary, especially when this was done in the midst of a pandemic, when the government stated that there were no inexhaustible resources and money, to strengthen, in essence, the public health system for the recruitment of educational staff, so that schools could safely operate, in order to support, essentially, all those who needed it during the pandemic. That is why the JRC, from the first moment the issue of investigating the case of the Petsa and the polling company "OPINION POLL", agreed with the SYRIZA's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, keeping, of course, a small basket on the effectiveness of the project, since accumulated experience from such committees leaves no room for expectation to the most naive one. However, we also pointed out that such a committee of inquiry, in any case there is a need to investigate overall the terms of such state advertising campaigns, at least in the last decade of the harsh austerity and crisis, by putting the governments' time-consuming responsibilities on how they shared the Greek people's money. That wasn't a late and opportunistic placement, now that he came in the aftermath to get accounted for. It is a consistent attitude, for which we have asked for legislation a year and a half ago. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. I would like to ask him whether he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government - has Mr Gerapitris left, who has been so lonely to lifting the burden of the government so far - so now that you are supposedly lifting the 'glory' and asking for the object of the committee to be investigated and the activities of SYRIZA - we have heard here anthems from the Members of the New Democracy this morning - why did you not accept our amendment, which provided for the publication of all the information on public adverts made in a decade's time, in criminal, indeed, responsibilities and the obligation to return money, in the event of an irregular procedure, so that something can come out of the whole story, except the bread and the spectacle? In fact, SYRIZA's gentlemen, why did you swallow your language at that time and did not support the amendment that provided for the adoption of and overall transparency rules for the terms and criteria whereby advertising campaigns should be held on behalf of the wider public sector, so as not to repeat to other surnamed lists the imaginable, admittedly, phenomena of websites and media that were growing overnight or re-established for a short time in view of state funding? Criteria, of course, which so far keeps a seven-sealed secret the orderly, otherwise, of the New Democracy. Above all, why did you not accept either, ladies and gentlemen of the government, but neither did any of the other parties, the self-evident one, in our view, and the main issue raised by the amendment? Messages about the protection of public health, protection against serious risks, threats, such as a pandemic and the information of the Greek people not to be transmitted in terms of advertising campaigns, should be transmitted for free. And that is all about the means, of course. Why would we do that? It is at least inhuman cynicism, while thousands of people die and many more are at risk, they must even pay to tell them how to protect themselves. Since you do not take any other measures to protect public health, at least let the information on self-protection measures be free of charge. You would have a further argument in the account of individual responsibility. So these minimum and self-evident measures, if we are to talk in detail about transparency conditions, which are obviously not guaranteed by legislation alone, you have rejected them and the others. Now you're taking a position on stunts and brawlings to feed another way to disorientation. So here's why your interest in transparency is hypocritical and yet limited. Because you all need a mechanism for manipulating and making anti-popular politics when your line comes to government power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why you have been playing for years in repeating the series of media control and the well-known paradigms of the dubious results of polling. As far as we are concerned, why can't public investigations, on matters of at least public interest, be carried out by public universities, by public bodies, which are supposedly more impartial than private interests, by public companies? We know, of course, that the beginning of the strand on interlocutory issues is far deeper: the bucket of the inexpensive links of the urban state with the great business interests, with the well-known big wallets, which are also in the hands of the media. It is therefore more than obvious that these will be used to highlight the policy that serves their own business interests and, of course, it usually coincides with those of the so-called government policy. This will have an objective brake on the actual information and even on the people's own entertainment. As a JRC, we are giving the battle not only of the real information, but also of the public's own awakening of what they are trying to drug him, until he becomes a protagonist in the life he wants and deserves to have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u158	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the oldest parliamentarians may remember that by 2015 the country was governed by a triangle of interlocutory, in which the political world, the media and the banks were. And they may remember that this sinful triangle as by magic between 2015 and 2019 disappeared. Then, of course, with the well-known institutional actions of the then government, with a laudable competition for television licenses, the "seas" of the Bank of Attica and the pastures of Ithaca, the closure of the media, journalists and the media all of a sudden began to serve the truth. Unfortunately, in this place good things last a little. After about five years of SYRIZA's rule, this sinful triangle as magically appeared again: government, media, polling companies. This millennium work, in fact, is being discussed today, ladies and gentlemen. We are not discussing anything less and nothing more than the recipe for success that brought SYRIZA to power in 1015. A recipe that desperately wishes to execute again so that one day it can rule again. In the absence of any resonance of his political positions, SYRIZA plays his last card. It is the media, the polling companies and not themselves, which we have seen in the last two years that, instead of getting short, the political sovereignty of the New Democracy is expanding. There must be no - at least I do not know - any other opposition internationally, which has made the management of this pandemic so popular. One management based on two main axes: first, in the recommendations and in the scientific opinion of experts and, second, in the awareness of the citizens. Information on the danger of coronary, the necessary protection measures, the benefits of the vaccine, which the government has been responsible for. But both of these aspects of pandemic management, unfortunately, the Civic Opposition uncovered the parties, creating stumbling blocks, leaving doubts, implying insinuations and implying the validity and effectiveness of the measures and of the scientists who worked with the government in order to leave behind the pandemic. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to investigate all this. And when we say everything, we literally mean everything! Because a sensitive card specifically for the manipulation of public opinion and freedom of the press cannot exist. If you really are so sensitive to the supposed triangle of interacting between the polling companies, the media and the government, then above all you should explain some of your things. You should explain, for example, that companies like "BRIDGING EUROPE", "VOXPOP ANALYSIS", "COMMON VIEW", companies that have been growing up as mushrooms since 2015 and from now on related to candidates from SYRIZA or even their founders were students of a well-known Minister of Government at the time they enjoyed obese contracts with public bodies, invented election differences with New Democracy just 2%. You should explain that these companies that do not even belong to the polling companies' register, at random, had election on the Golden Dawn at 8%, when this Nazi structure did not even get into the House. So the question is very simple: will you support the New Democracy proposal for effective investigation of the time period from 2015 to today? Will you finally get rid of the circumstances by giving a straight answer without an escape? Will you tell us who ultimately financed polling companies that were founded in 2015-2019 and for which they proved to have published misleading polls and differences in media friendly to the SYRIZA and which are not even registered in the competent authorities' registries? Do you agree to investigate all cases of public communication and information services carried out from 2015 until today? The Greek people must finally know what amounts, in what procedures and in what instruments were given. If you wait, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the field of counter-population, from the New Democracy to say yes to a committee of inquiry extended to neutralize the issue and which has been transparently controlling all of us from 2000 until now, then we will agree. But if you expect us to say yes to a proposal and try to protect the health of the citizens, just to escape your political and ideological deadlock, your inability to join with the vast majority of Greek society on all major issues from the Prespes to education, to pandemic and defence policy, then you are just making a very big mistake to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to this House. The Reporting and General Balance sheet of the State and auditing of the implementation of the State budget shall deposit its report in the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: (a) ‘Reform of the Financial Statement for the financial year 2019’ and (b) ‘Repeal of the Balance sheet and financial statements of the central government reference period from 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019’. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u161	The debate so far - and I imagine anyone following it - confirms what we have noted since the first time the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry has been tabled. It confirms that this proposal will be exploited by both sides, and by them, for there are constant problems, for a two-party fight which is like a courgette. SYRIZA says: "You have provided funds with opaque and you are manipulating on TV". And the New Democracy answers: “No. You did this. We didn't do anything." We're permanently continuing this ping pong. Who are you kidding? Do you think the world is stupid and does not understand that you both do the same when you are in government - and the three oldest - that we have lived "great" through the mass media, that we are living "great" unbelievable manipulation with all governments? It is therefore intended to do so in the Committee of Inquiry. This will happen and one will come out making statements, the other will make representations and so on. We, almost always, in order not to be absolute, agree with the setting up of committees of inquiry, but at the same time we do not expect much. We do not expect much experience, much greater than these issues. Why in the end? The hood happens at the end. The fight's happening. And what I have said repeatedly is that the system is like a shell. As soon as he's in danger, he's closing. Not much - this is not the case for now, but in general - to sacrifice any Iphigenia for the continuation of corruption, the misassis, the complexity that is a component. Because an unfair system based on the exploitation of human beings cannot survive if it uses all these methods that are elegantly taught even in universities, various managers and others. I don't want to go on with this. So the question that SYRIZA asks what is it? How and to whom and on what criteria were EUR 45 million granted for an advertising campaign - you hear - for the pandemic? How were the criteria given to the mass media for advertising campaigns, I would stress this again, for the pandemic. Of course, it is a question of how they were given and who they were given, and anyway we all understand what is going on and what is going on. Is that the main to the Greek people? Let us back up and think about the conditions that existed and now, perhaps even worse, in relation to the pandemic that caused fear, terror literally to the people who exemplarily disciplined the Lockdown that brought enormous problems to the people's layers, economics and other unprecedented, with two children in the house with the computer to do lessons, two parents working with the computer or one to play the lives of the crown - letters to go to work to stand up the economy. They were given to the media when the public health system collapsed from a lack of funding - 'There are no money trees', Maria Konnaka reminded us - and staff recruitment when workers were stacked like sardines in public transport and were not vaporized, and buses were not convicted. Why is that? Costs too. There were no substantial checks at the workplace. These two were the main sources of transmission of the virus according to scientific studies not of the JRC. That's where there was no money. In fact - and I say again - the workers were playing the crowns of their lives - letters and they were not just in public transport, in the buses they carried to factories and elsewhere. We asked a question and Mr Chrysochoidis answered that we did not remember how many thousands of checks and when I asked him: "How many fines did you put?" He didn't say anything. This is why the 'early cow' must be protected. When you were applauding the sanitary people who exceeded themselves, but you have no money to put them into the heavy and unhealthy. Go work at the ITH. Doctors know it, but they make other choices, even from New Democracy and elsewhere. So when you opened up schools and didn't have money to hire teachers and you didn't have rooms that were there and they were also public and you condemned these young people, apart from the rest that you literally brought in inhumane, you condemned them to be like sardines. And today you're coming and you're abbreviating departments and they're over twenty-five students, while everyone was saying for fifteen. So what did pandemic show? I address the people because there are no ears here to hear, there are ears to perform. What did he show? He showed the barbarity, the incredible barbarism that people know every day from the farm, from his work, etc. But in the pandemic the majesty of this barbarity was revealed. What interests, cynical, murdering objectively - were not personal - serves the policy that always supports and serves the interests of many and not the few. Instead of satisfying all this, you have financed 45 million of the workers' sweat. They are not yours, they are 94% of taxation and they are from workers, from employees and from self-employed and 6% from those who hold 60% - 65% of GDP. The world himself paid the channels to tell him what to do. Indeed. In fact, you say you did it to support the workers. Truly, what poverty the canals have. We're talking about being fat. They'll be on the begging soon. First in a commercial fleet is Greece in the world and these owners aren't the channels? They're also banks, they're also large export companies, they're everything. Well, finally this private initiative - this is not a private initiative, is it the handful of workers' blood - it could not offer and should not be in this pandemic? No, the law is that life and death are indifferent to capital when it has no profits. Is it or isn't it? Are we telling the truth or not? That's not all you're doing. You've fed the private clinics with great money. You doubled the amount of damages and you say you also made a requisition. They're fat, and they're all. And not just that. The various private centres, which people desperately resorted to, because the health system collapsed, you financed them, because what the worker pays and the rest of the work is money from the insurance funds, it's stolen value of work, sweat and workers. So, and here in these, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the myth of coexistence of public and private sectors, which complements one another, Mr Gerapetiti, has collapsed, because the private sector is also feeding him back on the private sector - as I have shown - not only by increasing the contribution when he goes to do tests, but the rest of the way they are covered? From the insurance funds. Meaning? It's from the workers. So this legend has collapsed. You're going to tell me why I'm saying all this? Because, of course, it matters how and to whom they shared and how many etc. However, the main issue is this and it is not the first time: the people pay for it, the recovery pays it. This is where we got to the take-off, literally to the take-off. The people have kneeled and the great interests have won. Aren't you ashamed? Don't you put your head down? Pharmaceuticals, private clinics, private centers anyway, canals 45 million. Why didn't you give them elsewhere to relieve the people? What would happen to them? Would the shipowners go bankrupt with the eighty and ninety boats and the huge business? That's what the Greek people hear. Therefore, there is a great conclusion to the capitalist economy: it does not every day account for human life, human suffering by chasing for profit, but also life and death depends on whether they make profits or not. On the second issue of manipulation that focuses on polling: Really, is this manipulation? Is it just polls? Isn't it manipulation that there's been brainwashed from morning till night to accept the anti-linguistic government? Is there no manipulation of the one-way street that there's no other way, "Here, bend your head and die"? But capitalism is the solution. Is there anything else that can be done? Will anyone tell me? And here I shall also refer to what Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA said, but also to objective information, pluralist information. That's where they laugh. They're hilarious and weeping, of course. And the workers must be crying. Hey, what do you think? You think those who have the channels are gonna put their hands on and take their eyes off? They will prophesy their interests. There is no objective information and pluralism in a system that dominates capital and controls the economy as a whole and microwave it, especially in the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u162	I shall end in a minute, Mr President. I know, but she's another speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u163	Not another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u164	I will give some examples why some here say about European countries. Who's it called? Someone who doesn't know what's going on in European countries? The situation is worse than Greece. It's not going through a progressive idea anywhere. There's no human communist out there. Well, we have to resurrect the Lazarus we said before to get a communist out on channels. There's such a smarter propaganda many times, unbelievable. You're talking about make news. What take news? Here we have a crossroads and a forgery of history from morning to night. What's that? Isn't it a make news? I'm going to give you a few examples. As far as Siemens is concerned, I had the honour and luck of eating nine hundred hours on behalf of the JRC in Siemens. Was there a list of journalists - yes or no? - paid by SIEMENS to answer and advertise? There was. What happened? He flew into the heavens. Is something wrong? Here's the objective, and where's the Papademicio who's telling us, and he's obsessed. If you write something that's not in the paper line, it's tossing it in the trash and it says "go away". He was telling me a reporter and, indeed, very well known. What do you say? Doesn't it have a line every channel and every newspaper? What are you talking about? How many communists are there? Can one freely say? Oh, no. It's all on the cliché, inside the cliché, and I'm saying very much about us. Secondly, in its examination of the 'SIEMENS', a press issue came up and had a leading factor - I do not want to say a name, it doesn't matter - who in the end openly said that the International Monetary Fund - there are the Minutes of anyone who disputes it - came to Greece and financed journalists to campaign the memorials, that they are good and so on. And when I asked him at the end, "But please, do you remember any name?" he said that "I have weak memory". And I understood it, and I told him 'I understand you'. What's that? They pay or don't pay everywhere to cross the line the dominant of the system. Mr. Papadimitriou is here. Good. Do you know that? He didn't hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u165	Good. You'll talk about it next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u166	Third theme is the BBC that SYRIZA has.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u167	Finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u168	That's not new. We've been through this before. On the 4th floor, who's at the BBC, Mr. Papademiriou, with the strays? The 'MI6', which passes all the news. He's giving a real one - it's Gabels's well-known tactic - and he's crossing the alley underneath. Is it true or not? It is. I'll get you another example.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u169	The last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u170	Is it possible now to clamp on the ERT and get SYRIZA out on the tiles? I've seen a show that two SYRIZA journalists and four SYRIZA journalists comment on. I mean, we're talking about incredible things. They don't control it, do they? If you tell the people what's going on with ERT, she'll tell you what a youth's youth is doing in the tiles. And he won't say, of course, he's a dog who knows foreign languages, but he'll say that it's the cat who's bleeding and the cat in this particular case is all the governments that manipulate and the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u172	I'm done, Mr. President. I'm hanging up. Finally, the issues are deeper, and you do not accept - and that makes sense and do not let you and you do not want - nor do any changes even have to be made to the text of transparency, etc. For our amendment, what are you doing here for slides and stuff? We have tabled a specific amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u174	You've all rejected it and the people can and must take their own conclusions, but you know, once you make fun of him, you mock him, you mock him, three you mock him, and then he gets beaten up and spins backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u175	Good. We are now continuing with Mrs Anastasia Gara from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Then there is Mr. Mylonakis, Mrs. Adamopoulou, the former President, Mr. Voutsis, and we are closing with Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the subject is the continuing actions of the Government for the manipulation of the media with public money expenditure, control practices, malnutrition and waste to the benefit of the government's account always, the phenomenon of a deep crisis of democracy, incontinental propaganda, misinformation of the people, the absence of control over government power. I could do a thorough analysis, but I will not do so by limiting time. However, this phenomenon has been much better described by Prime Minister Mitsotakis himself in a very slapful way, replying very recently to a Dutch journalist, saying: 'I know that in your country journalists are asking questions directly' - in the Netherlands he means - 'I respect this culture'. Is it, then, a matter of culture, ladies and gentlemen, a culture that does not exist in our country? What bigger insult can there be by oral Prime Minister to Greek and Greek journalists? However, this phrase is on the way in which Mr Mitsotakis perceives the role of the media and the role of democracy itself, because this government has made sure that it creates the framework in which journalists are not directly asked - as he himself admitted - that they do not control it, that they do not make public criticisms, that they do not actually exercise their role as constitutionalally appropriate. In a favoured state, ladies and gentlemen, with respect to the institutions, transparency and accountability, in a country where there would be respect for the freedom of press, the management of public money, but also for the needs of the citizens, a government which would not function in the sense of palace and arrogantness, where there is always the king, unconscious of criticism, would not require this debate today in Parliament and in the public sphere. The period 2019-2021 in conditions of unprecedented health and economic crisis is characterized by the direct transaction of government and media, with a key tool for the "popular Petsa" as they have remained in history. In reality, however, they are'mutual Mitsotakis' because he always gives the order. Instead, as a government, you, as a government, have chosen to follow a plan of campaign and information for the public, of reasoned costs with transparency, of equality, of clear, transparent criteria, you have chosen to waste millions of Greek taxpayers not for their necessary information, nor to strengthen health, education, to respond to the social needs that arise, but to buy a positive view and obtain a shield of communication protection for the government. The dance, however, is galloping and galloping all this time. First, the Petsa list, 20m euros for the campaign "We live Home", second list, Petsa, 2m euros for the same campaign, third list, almost 20m euros for a campaign that we did not see for vaccination. The results are seen in ICUs, multiple cases and low vaccination rates. And the most recent direct assignment of 1 million to the EDELMAN for the government's positive projection abroad with state money. If we add to them the communication programmes of the regions approved by the Directorate-General for Information, then the total expenditure on your communication eye exceeds EUR 75 million. And all this without transparent procedures, criteria, direct awards, always invoking urgent need and procedures. A characteristic thing is, of course, that the money from the lists received inexistent media or others that appeared a few months ago, media that made anti-infectious propaganda or coronary denial, media that were not included in the media registers and had debts on workers and public funds. The only criterion - the only criterion! - laid down by your Government was the degree of friendliness to the government, the degree of media friendliness to the government. It is also indicative that SMEs that do not serve the government account and resist the obvious pressures have only received 1% of advertising expenditure from these campaigns. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That tolerance, Mr President, and I thank you in advance. Of course, the Government has not confined itself to the “popular Petsa”, since it has given high-priced gifts to the media, has exempted the channels from the payment of the permit payment, advertising costs are no longer deducted, cannabis shareholders have been exempted from the submission “substantially”, the four hundred workers’ cap has been abolished and much more I do not need to analyse. However, all of this at a time when society is squeezing not only from the pandemic, but also from the accuracy and the labour crisis. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the statement by the Prime Minister we will never forget, because it is confirmed daily: "I am interested in communication and not in substance," he said, a doctrine that costs the Greek people very much, costs our democracy very much. At the same time, opacity and interlocutory lists have irreversibly exposed our country and abroad. Even the European Commissioner for Transparency made reference to the scandalous way of strengthening the media, reference was made to the Council of Europe, complaints were made by five international journalistic organisations, and before our President, Mr Alexis Tsipras, I did not repeat them. But when the European institutions, European organisations, ladies and gentlemen, say freedom and pluralism are being undermined in our country, the Greek Parliament can be left undisturbed? Can it leave society unprotected in front of all this? So the questions that arise are multiple: Where did all these millions go? On what criteria were all these millions shared and what was the outcome of the campaign? What institutionalised and transparent procedures were followed? Was there a level playing field in the expenditure on SMEs? Was there a proper management of public money? Has there been a targeted public information campaign? Were media excluded because of their opposition? Have they joined the media lists in exchange for their government support? Has the beneficiaries fulfilled their obligations towards the workers and the public or insurance funds, or have they fired the workers and closed their resources for a period of one or three months after they have taken the fat money from the "popular Pessa"? What role has also been played by companies such as INITIATIVE, which, by direct assignment and six-digit remuneration, undertook to share state money, without a mandate, without transparency? These and many other questions need answers, which is why it is necessary to set up a committee of inquiry, as it is a constitutional obligation, ladies and gentlemen, to control the government, respect public money and the work of taxpayers, but also to defend the information, pluralism and, above all, democracy that was born in that country. I should like to close, Mr President, and say that the practice of 'popular Petsa', but also the transactions with the public companies mentioned and analysed by our previous colleagues, as well as the full control of the public instruments of ERT and RES, which went through the Prime Minister's supervision, was one of the first acts that this government has done, claiming that it is building the new state - all that is, your conscious political choice with a clear aim, buying silence and support from the media. Ladies and gentlemen, if Kurts had to resign for a million, what should Mr Mitsotakis do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u177	To continue now with Mr. Antonio Mylonakis from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today you have made a great deal of effort to justify unreasonable things. You're a good orator. You're a university professor, a constitutionalist. If you were sitting in my seat since the morning and you've seen yourself often how you've been red, how you're sad, and how you're angry when you got up here, you'll understand that you've been doing an excessive effort to be able to justify what's been done since July 2019, that we've been in here so far. What you said, what the spokesmen of the New Democracy for SYRIZA have said fully applies, such as black cats, Mr. Tsipras along with a band, etc., the effort made by SYRIZA to take power and maintain it four and a half years by mocking the Greek people. But it's true that exactly what SYRIZA said with the effort he's now making to justify himself on your own hump. Yeah, there's a problem. We have to say it. First of all, Mr Minister, from this step, if you remember, from the beginning of 2020, speaking, but also from the President of the Greek Solution, we came directly and denounced the dirty game - a coup in progress - of the New Democracy party, if you want not all of New Democracy, the Government of New Democracy, against democracy. We suffered suffocation, we, as Greek Solution, faced a small party that was trying to enter the House, a party of patriotic space. They tried the media and polling companies to leave us out. On eve, one month before the European elections in 2019, Minister, we were not given more than 2.1% and we got 4.5%. Public research may have a wrong one, except for 3%. But this is 100%. How can it fall out so far? Is that possible? Oh, no. We brought to the Transparency Committee - you remember it very well and I think we had discussed it - the President of the PSE. The man can't do his job. He said it right away. He said 'I don't have the means, I don't have the staff, I don't do the job'. So no one controls the television scenery. Mr Minister, then I will ask you another question to which you will have to answer. First of all, Mr Petsas, because he is a State Secretary for the Interior, has the right to be here and to respond directly. If I were him, I'd be here today. What is the point of tens of millions, 43 million whole - is much more, but I am telling you for 43 million - have they gone for advertising? What was that advertising? What was that advertising for? Advertising took place at the public risk for a pandemic. We know very well - and I think that the Constitution guarantees it - that, when our homeland is at risk, when there is a public risk, whether it is for health or for safety, they can pass advertising free of charge, Minister. So, 43 million to see the time of the channel program a little house that says "We live at home" or "We stay safe"? Is that the value of the advertising program and the campaign you did? No, that's a crime. So you have to find all this, we have to sit down and lay rules. It is incomprehensible for two and a half years now - and I say this for us, because everyone defends themselves - that the President of the Greek Solution has not first been called, I and my fellow Members have never been invited to a pan-Hellenic channel once. And I ask: is that pluralism? Is that democracy? Does the Greek people not have the right to hear the views of a party that entered the House? And who's to blame for that? Don't tell me it's nobody's fault, because the complexity and corruption existed, there is and there will be in all the states. It's not just a Greek phenomenon. But here - for our country we are talking about - the New Democracy Government has a great responsibility. The government has too much responsibility. She's given a lot to the canalarchs to praise her all day. It's not good for you. You'll see it in the elections. It destroys you worse this thing, no matter how much you want to go through what you're best, that you make it all perfect. Did you see what happened to SYRIZA? He's out of power. The same will happen to the Prime Minister, and I say it now. Because I want to close, I'll say this. You spoke, Minister, about minority rights. Look out! We have sent two proposals to the President of Parliament to be a committee of inquiry. One was for the Eye and one for Skopje, for the Prespecies Agreement. I tell you that you do not want to bring it, because you too support it and support it. And you say, "After SYRIZA supports it and we support it and KINAL does not bring it, because it will go all the way." But couldn't the Eye, Minister, on the basis of the constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, come to be discussed here and, if it goes through, go into examination? You didn't even care about the Eye? That's a question. So, because we're ten MPs, you don't mind? So what is the minority's right? SYRIZA, with eighty-six Members, has the right to do so, and the President of Parliament is obliged to do so. But our proposal had to come here too. He had to come to talk at least. I know that for the treacherous prespecies agreement you don't consent. You're the same as SYRIZA. But for the Eye he had to come. In any case, what I have to say in closing is that you are the same New Democracy and SYRIZA. You're the same before it was PASOK. The exact same things did. That is why the parties remain in power, and that is why there are no other voices, so too many colleagues are excluded. Ask, Minister, how many complaints have the New Democracy colleagues? They don't even call the channels. That's not pluralism, it's not democracy. This is an ongoing coup d'état of each government to squeeze out the voices it does not want and bring to the surface and promote the voices it wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u179	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mrs Adamopoulou Angeliki from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's procedure is activated with the possibility of Article 68(2) of the Constitution. So it is at least institutionally and constitutionally shielded. It is, of course, an extremely burdensome process in terms of its democratic dimension, and this is because it opposes the dominance of self-restraint, the right of a minority to make self-evident criticism, to exercise the necessary control of political feasibility in political actions, political choices and decisions of the government. And since, of course, the Constitution, even implicitly, requires wider consensus on such matters, at least it seems that the attitude of the opposition will be a catalyst, which will have a very positive impact on this process, since it is, of course, a process that actually wants to lead to genuine political responsibility and will not lead to a final hood. As MERA25, we have repeatedly called for light on major political issues, which are linked to social challenges and which are not only allowed, but we must highlight them through such procedures. That is why we have repeatedly called for the file to be opened and for the memoranda and Cyprus to be opened, but we have received no response to these proposals, for which we have also tabled a proposal for a law. The reason we have made this call is precisely to devote a sufficient time, without implying, without communication fireworks, so that the Greek people can be informed by the genuinely politically responsible precisely on such major issues of topicality, both politically and socially. That is why we have been abducting pre-response committees, which have for decades abused the powers of inquiries and public prosecutors that have been afflicted with and exceptionally awarded by the Constitution. And this abuse is done precisely for reasons of communication opportunism. It would not be possible, therefore, to agree to a proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry, because the strengthening of the media with the money of the taxpayer Greek citizen himself and, indeed, in a period of triple crisis, health, social and political. Here we are faced with a deeply political problem, which is the very poor functioning and imperfection of the institutions, when we talk about interdependence between political and media establishments, about propaganda mediation in favour of the government and suffocation of any criticism, when we talk about dispersal and reproduction of false news, which is presented in a full-fledged way, when, in short, we are talking about the abundance of institutions, about political manipulation of public opinion and the dispersion of public money. All I say is that at the same time that intensive care units were leaking, at the same time as health workers collapsed and collapsed in hospitals, instead of channelling money for the management of the pandemic, you have taken care of the Greek taxpayer's money into the channels, to various websites, to various publishers, who are also associated with the underworld. At the same time that the Greeks are living under the poverty regime, he is unemployed, he works through heavy working conditions with the underpaid wage, you, with the Pecha list, gave millions of the channels only to bless your beards. And you didn't make that list public, except when the social outcry had actually reached the unprecedented. At the same time that dozens of our fellow citizens are lost from pandemic, where intensive treatment units have literally reached a state of suffocation, at the same time that the invasions are increasing, but there is misplacement in relation to the number of intensive treatment units, "Petos- tagged" channels, newspapers and websites are competing for the propaganda award in favour of the government, supporting its penal and authoritarian measures, choosing a completely specific news report and practicing for the government's allegedly efficiency in managing the pandemic. At the same time that PPC is selling out, that all the public goods are being sold out and nothing left of the dowry of this many-time homeland, at the same time that we are going through a wave of precision, that people have a problem of housing with rent prices being literally launched, the media that are fed by you, have swept a general silencer out of the way and manipulate public opinion in favour of the government, with an unrelated - I repeat - news reports. You know, there are countries of the Second and Third World, such as Mongolia, Uruguay, Madagascar, which are above Greece in the global indicator of press freedom. Greece, in fact, came down by five points this year. And what do the international media say? They say that the government of Mr Mitsotakis made tax rebates for various channels in relation to advertising revenue only to smuggle it, while other channels that were critical of it were either excluded or disproportionately less and indeed a controversial public information campaign. And the journalists are well aware that they had to take special leave to get into hospitals and report back there. Health workers were not even allowed to be placed in public and those who did so were subjected to disciplinary control. Of course, let us remember that in April 2020, the ERT3 workers themselves issued a statement on the terrible slump that they accepted not to make announcements about the sub-financing of the ESS, that they were financed only by individuals and volunteers, that they were disproportionately fewer - that is, they were six hundred fifty, while the World Health Organisation has given a directive on three and a half thousand intensive treatment units - and of course they were undermining the excessive cost of private intensive care units. So I conclude by saying that Merra25 is positive and is in favour of this proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, but we want to stress that the problem is not only control and manipulated opinion polls. The root of the problem is the ownership of the media. The bipolar system of New Democracy and SYRIZA enabled the parasitic oligarchy to monopolize the property. So the ownership status of the media must be socialised, because that is the root of the problem. So we have tabled a proposal for a law, but let us not expect the media to show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u181	The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has the floor for twelve minutes, immediately after Mr Theocharis, and the procedure is closed. We know there's an interest in going back home. We will try to complete it in a timely manner. We believe that 17:55' will start the process. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, our country, like the world, is at war. Our society is undergoing a historic unprecedented war with victims. Today they were fifty-eight of our fellow citizens dead. And we don't know how many more months this war will last. We therefore call on the New Democracy wing to vote in favour of the committee's proposal, because it is a proposal which fully reflects - and it is no coincidence that it is also accepted by the other opposition parties - this historic situation, which we thought might be a few months ago and with smaller losses, but now it seems to be a war from which we do not know how to get out. It illustrates our responsibility for this particular juncture, for the pandemic, where there have been the special measures, where there have been the historical unprecedented situations of the lockdowns, the restrictive measures of the parliamentary procedure through the restrictions of the MGFs, etc., where there have been all the things I have heard previously in the social field and Mr Pafilis has said. In this situation, a government strategy was formulated and pursued in relation to a vital issue for society, for all of us, information, communication, the exchange of views in the face of the unknown. Remember. That is why we then brought the issue to the Institutions and Transparency - President Tsipras mentioned in his report - in time, precisely because these conditions are particularly specific. Your refusal for time is not a refusal for the Committee of Inquiry. It is denying whether there has been or has not been this war and this special treaty. Your attempt, which has evolved since the second day to the President of this House, is the proposal for a committee of inquiry, not on paper and with the information you have been talking about for two months now - the very same thing you have said - for a timely enlargement, for a debate and a pandemic, we could say before being judged and say in general for all these years, namely an academic, but also a hard political confrontation and a debate, is clearly preoccupational and disorientative. Because you want to get out of the core, you want to come out of the trouble, and you want to come out of the responsibility of discussing what measures you have taken, what strategy we have developed in a pandemic time, where public dialogue has been suspended and public debate has been suspended, the public sphere in general, the communication of citizens among themselves, what strategy has been followed then and now. Because we have followed a strategy, as you have heard, by manipulating information, manipulating public opinion, and I say to you directly and directly to manipulate the fear of citizens in the pandemic. It was the strategy of the Mitsotakis Government and of all, of course, the Prime Minister first of all, which was expressed on the Pecha lists, say, and all the rest. We have already highlighted them in the Institutions and Transparency since April 2020 all the political forces. Look at the Minutes, bring the Minutes here, see how they were asked as well as the questions as possible, that why the Ministry did not make the existing framework with the existing register and with the cross-party control of this support to the media enterprises, which were also wintering at that stage due to a lack of advertising. The issue has been raised. Why did you choose a company, and indeed a friendly person, who gets jobs from the government, perhaps even from the party, with 3% - would this company probably get a fee for free would do the job? - to do this campaign. Why have not all of this been included in social messages, where there is legislation, in that all of these "Home We" could go through the social messages that the channels are obliged to include in their programme? Why have you frozen the current legislative framework that was made by our government and by January 2020, so that another framework could come? That's what you said. And will this other frame ever be educated? It's been a year and a half already. So look at these questions which all the political forces of the opposition have put on Mr Petsa's replies to the committee concerned. Look what he said. Look what he promised. See what false things were submitted in relation to the transparency of the whole process. You're accountable. And you are accountable because it seemed immediately after all that it was a clear effort to make the pandemic an opportunity, so that the responsibilities possibly or even large from there and after political errors by the Government of New Democracy in dealing with the pandemic were disguised and that there was a shield of protection against those policies of the government, that the world that was struggling, which fears, should listen to documentedly cross-checked opinions, objections and programmes. Do you remember that at the time the first press conference was held by the President of the Police Department in conditions only online - we were all in lockdown - on the proposals to protect from the pandemic, on health proposals? Do you want to remember them one by one, and how this shield worked? That was your attempt. So what we are bringing together the scandal is obviously the function of the public company, to which I shall refer, to be examined by the House, is specific, and responsibility is specific, and the responsibility will obviously be sought at all levels, about how this criminal has been exercised to inform, communicate and communicate the world, about the needs of the world, policy. For our part, we have tabled and tabled this proposal for the protection of society and precisely for the protection of democracy. We had said since, and it has been a year and a half since, that there is an issue of democracy in the country, in this sense, in the pandemic, where there was, in fact, a reduction in the public sphere, we were working with particular parliamentary and legislative procedures, here we were two and a half people, and I was coming regularly because I could and wanted to have a presence, on the channels, the dialogue that was going through houses, on the Internet. That was the situation. In this situation, you have exercised this manipulative policy in the critical area of democracy, namely in the field of information, communication and cross-cutting, to contact what is being discussed worldwide, internationally. Where was the proposal put forward here to make the patents of vaccines socially available internationally? And today we see the results and the great disparities that have been opened. Where was the mistake that the European Union had in its countermeasures with the companies and then they said 'we were wrong'? There were things coming here either in parliamentary control or in parallel discussions provoked by political leaders, Gennamata submitted a set of proposals each time - bring them from the Minutes - which were not accepted. And the world stayed in the face of a series - I will not describe it - of the Prime Minister's arguments. Unprecedented. That's probably where you recognized that there was war, war took place. That's why the Prime Minister was going out too far and doing lectures every little and little to the Greek people. I'm not going in, I'm telling you, to criticize what they were saying or whether these communications actually came out. So today, through your refusal, you are ignoring this particular treaty and that will cost you historically. And if you go to the committee of inquiry with the Lysari today that we hear from the morning 'what happened in 2013, 2015, in 2011, in 2008, in 2007, in 2007, the Rousopoulos laws', of course, the House can discuss those months in general so that nothing can be done, so that responsibility is not given, so that nothing can be improved and nothing can be changed. Because here in this Chamber yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, to show how coherent this strategy of manipulation and the reactions of the world is, with the famous Criminal Codes, and with the so-called strictness, horizontal and everything else in mind, seeing forwards and reactions of the citizens, perhaps from the policies that you have conducted, you are also taking away from the judges the right to see the range of sentences, the particular conditions for bringing justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just two more minutes, Mr President. You removed it, as well as you put the layout for false news and psalmology. Really? What was said in those two years? How much lies were heard and how were they, as a funnel directly, in the ear of our struggling fellow citizen, without the possibility of control, the possibility of crossing opinions? I told you another time. There is no history of postpopulation - and perhaps before that, how much more so when everyone was locked up in their homes, which we had lockdowns, public ERTs, which had no political debates, one, two, three at night. It was a place for people to listen to the different views of authoritarian scientists, parties, citizens. How many months have the first professional class protesters come out of people who had problems and rights, freedoms, from a number of events that occurred in this war? So what do you say? That we have an enemy in the journalists and in the polling company for our part? She, you know who would control her? And I will close with that, Mr President. This law you refer to, by Mr. Rusopoulos, 2007 or 2008, what does it do? It says that they are responsible for controlling and formulating a punishing framework and highlighting issues - apart from the Committees of the Parliament, Institutions and Transparency, etc., which are also responsible for monitoring, do not discuss them in hierarchical terms - a company consisting of the same pollsters. That's what this is about. Yes, sir. How many times in the thirteen years has this company been used and taken steps, where six elections were held in mid-term, if I remember correctly, and there have been all the problems that have emerged from all sides here today in the debate? Do you know how many times he intervened? None, nothing. So we went to Institutions and Transparency and they told us that there has of course never been any control, but the debate is stopping. The Institutions and Transparency of Parliament - Parliament, if possible! - for the findings and for the way a certain measurement was made by this company, precisely because there is another company and we are unauthorized. This irresponsibility, which is arrogant, and it is arrogant because you knew - now it no longer passes - that all of this would be covered by a veil that they would not be made public. This arrogance led to your strategy, both for the pandemic and for the issues of democracy, and for the issues relating to the media, where it led them. This committee of inquiry should be voted for by all Members as a minimum, to all Greek citizens, and especially those who have suffered, to prove that the political system is bold and can also in its own mistakes or its own points be able to progress and draw conclusions. Don't fight so long for now, we'll be done before 6:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u183	You're scared! You fight!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u184	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u185	Be well, you said the same throughout the night, I hope you will not say the same thing to the committee of inquiry. This war exists to win him, and we can all win him together!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u186	We continue and complete the process with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr. Harris Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u187	I'll try as long as I can help with the time process. Of course we're at the end of one, I'd say, a rich conversation. And former Prime Ministers, former Presidents of Parliament, party leaders, have spoken and it is important at the end of this debate, before we all have our vote, to try to draw the conclusions, to answer some questions, which I think have now been crystallized during this debate, questions, and institutional and political, if I may say so. First of all, why are we here at institutional level? We are here because the New Democracy believes deeply in democracy and its institutions. As an opposition, we have proposed changing Article 68 so that the minority has a strengthened government's right of control by setting up committees of inquiry, a proposal with which SYRIZA did not agree. Look out, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be fair to this. It is not radical or progressive that the New Democracy as Opposition has called for the widening of the rights of Anti-Population. It is not radical or progressive that SYRIZA as a government did not want opposition to have a right of control. After all, in the second debate - the Minister proved this - he wanted this right of control to reduce it. Radical and progressive is the insistence of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis to complete the revision as a government, giving SYRIZA the right to challenge today's debate. So you understand our surprise when we heard Mr Katrugalo ask for the credit for something that his party did not actually support from the Step which is given to him by the reform of the New Democracy. Too bad, 'cause he hasn't gotten used to us in such practices. Let us still ask ourselves why we are here at political level. We are here because the Qualified Opposition charges its demographic stagnation to polls and polls, to polls recording its disagreement with the voters themselves. I will only give one essential example: the polls record the broad acceptance of the defence cooperation agreement between our country and France. Even among the voters of SYRIZA one in three sees it positively, when Mr Tsipras said that, firstly, we should not upgrade our weapon systems because it is very expensive, secondly, that we should not make defensive agreements, because we also have obligations towards our allies, and finally, we should go out and negotiate in Turkey and find them. So things are very simple. Mr. Tsipras, on his way to the ICU, announced a stall and pluralist collapse of the New Democracy. With the political positions that SYRIZA takes, however, the lace that was actually closed in the summer was reopened and now it's the pollsters' fault. I am passing through the lanes is closed by the company which you are accustomed to. So when the lanes closed, we didn't see you complain. You're doing it now. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the pollsters' fault. We are here because Civic Anti-Policy adopts foreign-sapon political positions on all issues, especially during the pandemic. And with the officer and the ranger. Why don't the schools open up when they're closed? Why don't schools close when they're open? Why did you open up tourism and the economy? Why did you close tourism and the economy? Even on the subject we discussed today, the isolation of SYRIZA is deafening. When, on 18 October, the Prime Minister made the proposal - again today, we made it - to which all the opposition parties agreed to broaden the subject and its neutral description, so that the committee would have a substantial effect, apart from party bumps, Mr Tsipras was in favour of it. He took it back two hours later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u188	Please! Listen to your parliamentary representative!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u189	One might argue that, regardless of the political deadlock that has led you here today, this debate at least concerns a subject that you consider to be important to the political life of the country. That's not what's happening either, unfortunately. Because, if you thought it was important, you would have followed another procedure, you would have appealed to the polling company. Mr. Voutsi, this audit company must have a complaint. However, you did not do so because it is the only person responsible for dealing with the matter at first time, in accordance with L.3603/2007. So we had the inaccuracies of Mr. Tsipras telling us - but you also repeated them - how did you go to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, in accordance with Mr. Rusopoulos's law? No, despite the law, you went against the law to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Why didn't you do it? Mr. Tsipras told us that this is not a technical matter, it's a political matter. But there is no political issue if there is no technical issue. If this committee sees and examines the company's methodology and finds it right, then there is no political background. So Mr. Tsipras lies, trying to cover up the reality. I wonder why you did not change the institutional framework if it did not cover you. Mr. Vouches said it wasn't right. Five years, who prevented you from changing it? Why didn't you do something to correct the scope of the polls, if you think it was dysfunctional? What happened to the proposals of the CEDEFOP, their Association, on changes in law? I've got 'em here. I'm tabling them in the Minutes, so we can freshen your memory. Here are your suggestions. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What happened to the conclusion that Mr Papapas, as the Minister responsible for the failure of the polls in the 2015 referendum and in the September 2015 elections? This conclusion was requested before the end of the year and in 2016 it was delivered to you. I got it here. What happened? He stayed in the drawer. I'm filing this, too, so you can refresh your memory. He stayed in the drawer, and I'm very afraid he fell into the trash of the unusable. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you ignored it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why else would the ghost companies 'COMMON VIEW', 'BRIDGING EUROPE', 'VOXPOP ANALYSIS', 'VOXPOP ANALYSIS' and 'Golden Dawn' to 8% to 10% a few days before the European elections in 2019? You are still telling your request that there is a question of democracy. Of course there is in principle. However, the area of public opinion polling and investigation companies is regulated by Law 3603 which I mentioned earlier. That is why we must be extremely careful about the concepts. There is something that has not been raised by our debate. ESOMAR is a global organisation of these companies and takes studies. He's made the last study, and here I have his data for the past year. The average cost of public money in the turnover of companies in Europe is 9.3% and we see countries, for example, Norway with 25% public money going for this kind of investigation. Do you know how far it is in our country? It's 4%. We are under half of Europe's average. These issues will be discussed anywhere in Europe and discussed only here and here by the official information of the body of these companies. There is no such matter in our country. Please, I'll submit the information on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One wonders why you do not want enlargement. Because you probably remember - I wonder if you remember, but you probably remember - how you ruled: First, with the alternative banking system to baptize the pastures of Ithaca. Secondly, with the alternative media system for the underground financing of DOCUMENTO and thirdly, with the alternative system of polling of the ‘COMMON VIEW’, ‘BRIDGING EUROPE’ and ‘VOXPOP ANALYSIS’. No matter what you say about your projects, they are very small. Fortunately, however, the country left it behind. Fortunately, the country left you behind. In the end, is today's debate useful? I dare say yes, because today's debate is another opportunity for the hero to stand out from the wheat, another chance to distinguish our institutional attitude from your irresponsible populism, to tell your fears in controlling your actions against our own transparent governance. All of Parliament's parties agree to broaden the subject in order to examine the issues from 2015 or even from 2011, and only you cover the subject of the committee. This is the real political issue today, the isolation of SYRIZA in enclosing the object of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, however, today's debate is not neutral and has no results. In the last year and a half, not only our country, but the whole world is at war against this unprecedented situation. The pandemic changed the life of the whole planet. The least one would expect would be national unity and unity in the matters of civil health. Today, once again you have been inferior to the circumstances, investing in destructiveness, fear and ignorance, a attitude that has been undermined from the beginning to the present day. I would remind you, to remind the Greek people too, although they know them, the following: the vaccines are not available, and if they exist, we do not have them, and if they do, they will not be free of charge. Yes to compulsoryity, as long as it's optional. Not everyone should be vaccinated, but only the more than sixty-five and those with underlying illnesses. The others to take medicines, which have not yet been checked, are experimental and unauthorized. When we motivate the world, we buy it. When we institutionalize counterincentives, then we suppress him. It is the adoption of all the arguments put forward by uninfected people, such as those who have been vaccinated. We just heard today - we heard this from Mr Tsipras' lips - and I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, because in my speech here yesterday I wrote and had to change it, because today Mr Tsipras reiterated all the arguments of the anti-invasives. And of course - not the punishment of forgery, those who allow the anti-invasive movement to operate illegally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u190	Please, ladies and gentlemen! In a minute, Mr. Theocharis concludes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u191	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, what we see today is that the government, on the one hand, needs to inform it does not inform it enough. But he must inform without doing so through the media. I suppose we should do it through SYRIZA's campaign, so much you advertised it and so much you hid it from us! They haven't even been able to see it! This is not serious, unfortunately! I'm closing, Mr. President. After all, a question remains to be answered: When the Greek people face the accuracy, pandemic, migration, the difficult geostrategic environment and trusts the government more than the beginning of the four-year period, as it sees its effects on health and social state, on economy and tourism, on investment and international relations, who deals with your political games? The answer is simple: no one. You'll see it in the polls if you don't see it today. Don't worry. By 2023, when the election comes, it's a breathtaking road! The Government of New Democracy proves almost daily that it maintains and implements all that had promised in an election, with tax and insurance relief, a drastic reduction in HPAI by 22%, a multi-faceted and systematic boost to growth, the creation of a climate of investment hosting, the excellent performance of tourism and others. I think that nowadays an unprecedented economic revival operation is taking place. Perhaps even more important is that the New Democracy Government, with the Prime Minister first, restores a step - step by step - respect for democratic and constitutional institutions, institutions threatened by SYRIZA's acrobatics in 2015-2019. That's actually what you want to undermine today. But you cannot, so it is clear that in the face of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy Greeks see the power that can guarantee progress, prosperity, social peace in the present and future. Although a future that, as you move, will remain only blurred for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal tabled by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of the Group of the European Parliament, for the committee of inquiry, for the investigation of the public opinion-management operation, for the achievement of institutions and for the destruction of public money has been completed. It will be followed by a roll-call vote to be taken in accordance with Rules 72 and 72A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and a decision on whether or not to set up the Committee of Inquiry in accordance with Rule 68(2)(c) of the Constitution and Article 144(5)(b) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. They accept the proposal 'YEI'. The non-attached responds to the proposal 'TO'. Refusing to vote will answer 'PANIS'. I would also like to inform you that fellow Members or Members of the Government who cannot physically participate in the vote either on the basis of a mission abroad or on health grounds will vote by letters to be sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House as applicable. These votes will be taken into account in the following count. We are entering the roll-call electronic vote. On your screen, the proposal for a committee of inquiry is presented and the words 'NAI', NO', 'PANI'. Make sure you vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u193	The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u194	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. A total of 299 Members voted. In favour of the proposal, i.e. 'NAH', 142 Members voted. Against the proposal, i.e. 'OECD', 157 Members voted. Consequently, the proposal tabled by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of the Group of the European Parliament for a Committee of Inquiry into the public policy operation, the success of the institutions and the fragmentation of public money, after completing the limit of at least 2/5 of all Members, i.e. a hundred and twenty Members, irrespective of the majority, in accordance with Rules 68(2)(3) of the Constitution and 144(5)(b) of the Rules of Procedure, was accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u196	My proposal therefore is that the committee should be composed of twenty-nine members representing them in proportion to their strength of all the groups and of the Independents, pursuant to Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I propose to the House the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and for it to be completed within two months of the committee being set up, as usual. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u197	I would ask Parliamentary Groups to send the names of Members who will be involved in the committee of inquiry as soon as possible. I would also ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u198	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal for a committee of inquiry has been concluded. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Foreign, Finance, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs Ministers, Health, Civil Protection and Justice, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, have tabled their 12-11-2021 draft law: "Repeal the exchange of private communications Agreements on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Hospital of St. John the Kings of Rhodes and Malta, and the declaration contained in a private announcement of the Chancellor of the Lord's Military Order of St. John the Hierosols of Rhodes and Malta,". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-12-S1-commons.u199	With the consent of the House at 19.08 p.m., the sitting on Monday, November 15, 2021, at 17.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
