ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Good evening, good week! Happy birthday to the celebrities, Angelus, Angela, Michael, Gabriel! We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that the following questions will be discussed today: Question No 127/1-11-2021 topical question, Question No 132/1-11-2021 topical question, Question No 131/11-2021 topical Question No 134/1-11-2021 topical question, Question No 118/20-2021 timely question, Question No 133/1-11-2021 timely question, Question No 135/1-11-2021 timely question, Question No 139/1-11-2021 timely question, Question No 117/29-10-2021 timely question, Question No 128/1-11-2021 timely question, No 141/11-2021 timely question, Question No 122/1-11-2021 timely question, Question 112-11-2021 and Question 112-11-10-2021 topical question with Question No 10-2021 We begin with our fourth question under number 122-1-11-2021, first-round question by MP B1' North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Superior and murderous police violence". Mr. Gregoryade, good morning, and good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr President, good week. Thank you so much for giving me the floor. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, Mr Economou, for being here to answer our question. Mr. Minister, as you know, on Friday, October 22nd, 2021, one of the many pursuits of suspects from the "DIA" group in Perama ended up in a bullet rain, thirty-six in the number, which resulted in the murder, in our view, of an unarmed man and even eighteen-year-old man, who was Roma, Tyngianos, Nikos Sabanis. The disparity of the murderous police force is already causing questions, Minister, about the role of groups such as the DIA group. At the same time, government officials, such as the Minister for Development, Mr.Adonis Georgiades, rushed before justice were placed to congratulate the policemen who killed the unarmed man while persecuting this man because they did their duty. Then, on Monday, immediately next week, on 25 October, Mr President, an absolutely unnecessarily attack was carried out against a peaceful course against the police force which had taken precedence and arbitrary action at the Propylaea with civilian injuries, Mr Minister, including members of our Parliament, such as Mrs Apatzides, who has the honour of sitting next to me right now and fortunately has saved the worst. On the same night, Minister, a lawyer was hit by a man of MATs, while the next day or the same day, I do not remember exactly, a video record has been recorded with a man of MATs, who breaks a glass door in an exarchaian shop hurting a woman who is not resisting, she seems very clear. He says, "Are you crazy?" And he answers "yes, I'm crazy." Minister, I know that you have a good intention and you want our police to be a favoured, democratic, European police force. So I ask you what your purpose is, what you intend to do for democratisation - at last - at some point in the Security Councils, for the control of the psychological situation of those who manage them and for the real moment - at last - accountability for their actions. And secondly, what you intend to do with the militarized ones - because these are - groups such as MATs, the DIA Group and the 'DRANS' - and the staff of EL.AS. only with graduates of her schools - at least two years of real democratic education. I tell you this, Minister, because it appears that the people who killed the eighteen-year-old in Perama, Roma, were trained, having been recruited since you took the lead, either in the very good case of four months or in the bad case of Evros - which we were running and did not reach - twenty-five days. That's all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u3	We too, Mr. Gregoryde. Let's say a lot of years to our Air Force. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, good evening, good week. Three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the Perama, everything was done both in relation to the judicial and disciplinary process and in relation to the operational evaluation by the Ministry and Headquarters. Part of the counter-population, including the Mera25, and in this dramatic case they wanted to politicise the issue and present the police as an authoritarian anti-democratic mechanism, while offenders as victims. These approaches do not help democracy or human rights. Greece is a mature European democracy. Its legislative framework and the functioning of the state guarantee the stability of the country and must guarantee the security of citizens, of life and of property, because democracy cannot function without security. In the case of the event in Perama, on the part of the Ministry at the level of political leadership, we examined it as an opportunity to further improve the operational functions and the structure of the immediate action. The parameters of the incident, not only of this Perama but of others, have led to decisions for more and more multi-level training of Greek police personnel on the streets day and night and are increasingly being called upon to deal with persecuting and extreme behaviours of criminals. Our priority, and this has been very clearly formulated in the latest statements by Minister Theodorikos, is the continuing training of all police officers, with priority being given to the staff serving in the DIA Group and other direct intervention and first reaction services. The question of the police, but also the entire Ministry of Civil Protection, is security everywhere. There is a tripartite that we will strategically follow: Documentation of operational structures, interoperability, education and know-how in staff, improvement of the legal and administrative framework where necessary. It is regrettable that the political formations of the Anti-Population at every opportunity are attacking with a full zero attitude to the Greek police and are looking at previous decades, in the 1950s and 1960s. The circumstances at the time were different from today. Society was different. Crime in these years is evolving. The challenges are different, but Greece is different. Our democratic city is now a acquis. The concept of rightfulness, as some of the Left mean it, sancifies the criminal, purifys the attitudes of the minority and fuels the security structures of the state, the man and the female police officer. It looks forward to a social division and polarization at every opportunity. He ignores the data of our country's order, law and state stability. We're trying to better police, more security, more operational capacity. Even when there are failures, gaps, malfunctions in the day-to-day activity, these will be corrected, they will be grounds for greater formation, readiness and capacity. The Greek policeman is not the criminal. His mission is to fight the criminal. The way the vast majority of civil society faces the Greek Police gives courage, confidence and satisfaction to the police. Political co-existence and minority reactions cannot influence the police that serves the Constitution, laws, order, collective security.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Grigoriadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you consumed from three minutes two minutes and fifty-five seconds to tell me that your theme is in intolerance and in the past. We have no intention of doing so, and I think your speech shows who wants to go back to the past. I have told you repeatedly that we are not giving you Greek policemen, they are people's children, poor children, poor children of poor families who have made their choice and we are with them. We don't think they're strangers from us. We consider them within the social body. We think it's part of us, flesh from our flesh. The problem, Mr Minister, is this: in a way, you say that we have politicized the incident by killing the eighteen-year-old Roma, when the evidence is overwhelming? The centre in which they must obey and obey if the men of the group "DIA" were trained, Minister, commands them to stop chasing. You're a police officer and you know very well that the order from the center you have to obey. If they simply did their duty and did not trespass their oath and obey the center’s command, a eighteen - year - old man would not have died. Secondly, they dropped thirty-six bullets, Minister, in a stationary vehicle that at first they tried to claim that they were injured - and it turned out that it was not at all hurting them - from the back, killing people. They didn't listen. Thirty - six bullets were fired from behind in people, in their heads, without throwing any bullets in the tyres of the car while claiming they were trying to stop it. You did not say a word about the fact that the Minister of Civil Protection went the same night to the GDR for them. I ask you, Mr. Economou, are you such a Minister, have you ever been to the GDR to see a leftist if he's well in his health that hit him? Have you ever been to the GDR to see any anarchists? Have you ever been to GATA to see any Member of the Communist Party who's hit him? Have you ever been to GAAP to see me or anyone else who's hit MATs? You haven't. You only do it when he risked revealing that these people because of lack of education, I want to believe, murdered an eighteen-year-old, and the evidence is overwhelming. In addition, as far as our colleague is concerned, you said nothing to me. Is that none of your business? You don't care? Aren't you concerned about the fact that prosperous policemen broke the Constitution in a MP, who you don't see being a very scary person? If you saw her and were a man of MATs with dependency, would you be afraid not to kill you? I guess not. They started throwing her chemicals. She got a shield on her face. They threw a elbow in her eye. Luckily, the coroner has filed the photographs. I didn't hear you say anything. Do you not feel the need as a political leader to apologize for this? It could be New Democracy. If the New Democracy MPs were a little more activists, they would also beat the MATs with us. That's what I'm telling you. You don't feel the need. You're also telling us what? You say that the analysis of the incident finally led to your decision, the leadership of your ministry, to do what you announced. I mean, what? Put cameras on the MATs, put discreetly on their uniforms. But, Minister, the previous one from Mr Theodorikos, your chief of staff, Mr Chrysochoidis, told us again a year ago. The cameras didn't come in. The whole Opposition is also screaming and not the small parties that are obsessed with democracy - all - that men of MATs in an environment that is not considered purely fascist should be discreet. Indiscriminately not have the Taliban. The Taliban and ISIS are not discreet. Our officials must be discreet in order to know who is hitting a Member of the Greek Parliament in the Propylae, which is why. And I conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - by telling you, Minister, that you also said that the SAD was ordered. Every time, you tell us that a jury of directors were ordered. I'll give you two clues, and I want your opinion on your dentistry. In 2018, three hundred and thirty-one jurors were ordered exactly for reasons of such police violence, overcoming the limits of police officers - of which three hundred thirty-one, Minister, on 31-12-2018 - that is, on the last day of the year to get together - the two hundred and eighty-six were pending. Do you want to remove? You will understand that they were discussed and decided on twenty. In 2019, the police ordered two hundred and eighty ESAs, of which at the end of the year, on 31-12-2019, the two two two two were pending. It is clear, Minister, that we are not obsessed. It's you who don't understand. We're not fools. The government won't fall because of this. We are trying to strike a alarm and tell you that democracy is in danger here. Almost three hundred thousand voted for us, Minister. We may be a small party, but these Greeks have the same constitutional rights to represent. If a man of MATs does not respect a elected representative of the Greek people, democracy is at stake, Minister. We have no other obsession. We think you're democratic, and we think you want to redeem the police. The way you responded to me, the police are dismantling, Minister, and it's going to hit worse. He will continue to shoot in the back of social groups that he does not approve because they are Gypsies or because they are professional prostitutes or for any other reason. I mention these because the predecessor of the current Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, has been left forever in the history of his life, the fact that they had AIDS, which after tortured security, also gave his information to the public. That is why Mr Chrysochides must be defended. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr Gregoryde. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. You have also raised various other issues now, but I shall confine myself to answering the essence of your question, given that there is a time limitation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, important issues relating to the Ministry of Civil Protection have been at the heart of news in recent days recommending the subject of public dialogue. When this dialogue is conducted responsibly, far from small-party tactics and impressions, then it is certain that it promotes both a fruitful exchange of views between the political forces of our country and a responsible and comprehensive public information. Before I turn to the substance of the questions raised in the current question, I should like to briefly mention some information on the incident of 22 October in Perama and the other two reports on the incidents in Propylaea and Exarchia. First of all, as far as the incident started at 22 October from the area of Agios Ioannis Rendis was concerned, it ended up in Perama with this dramatic result, as both judicial and disciplinary checks have already been known. It is therefore quite clear that at this stage no safe crisis can be formulated and I honestly wonder how so easily and even before the whole process proceeds you have in your view reached safe conclusions on such a serious issue of loss of human life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u9	Thirty-six bullets from behind!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u10	This is a tragic event, the examination of which requires in-depth investigation of the facts, together with the follow-up of the actions of all the parties involved. It should be noted that the incident was immediately informed and the independent Citizens' Ombudsman in the context of its responsibilities as a national arbitrary investigation mechanism. Criminal case has been formed by the Department of Crimes against Life and Personal Freedom and the case is now, as you know, in the hands of regular interrogation. For complaints about the injury of citizens, including a member of the Greek Parliament, on 25 October in the center of Athens, which we certainly condemn and investigate with due care, you can be absolutely sure that where there are responsibilities and in this case they will be imposed with due rigour. Indeed, there have also been meetings of the honourable Member with the Chief Police Director of Attica, etc. where some initial explanations concerning the operational overall development of the activities were provided at this point. Our aim is to investigate the case from a disciplinary point of view, while being in progress and preliminary investigation by the State Security Sub-department. And because you have also made a reference to the timing of the SADs, you should know that the time required is needed in connection with and how the relevant criminal cases are going, because this has been accepted by both Greek and European courts. Because the completeness and objectivity of investigating cases requires both time and equality of treatment in all circumstances and respect for this position which is being dealt with as a culprit in a particular event. Finally, with regard to the alleged actions by police officers against citizens in the region of Exarcha on 26 October, there is already a sworn administrative examination of all aspects of the investigation. Both the case at the Propylaea and the case at the Exarchates has also been informed by the Citizens' Consultant of its own actions on the ground of competence. Let us look at the main issues of the question under discussion here. I have carefully studied the questions raised, in particular the report on the alleged need to democratise the body of the Greek Police. This reference leads to a further misconception of the supposed existence of a democratic deficit in the ranks of the men and women of the Greek Police. Allow me, therefore, as a member of the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, but above all as an honorary leader of the Greek Police, to state my opposition and my abhorrence to such a distorted and dangerous social cohesion that some - fortunately few - are trying to cultivate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Police are moving and acting strictly within the framework of the Constitution and the legal order of the Greek state. It is subjected to discipline, structural adequacy and self-control framework, with effective accountability mechanisms for those limited divergent behaviours, which I assure you are not only controlled but are punished. Those who are trying at times to leave a head for the democratic conception in the ranks of the Greek Police Corps in order to formulate an extreme and divisional for society above all political reasons must not be forgotten. It was the services of the Hellenic Police who conducted all the investigations into the illegitimate actions and behaviours of the leadership and the members of the Golden Dawn that led to this pro-Russian motif before Greek justice. I therefore call on all of them, in particular the members of the Greek Parliament, not to reproach the democratic conception of the Greek police, which every day performs its mission with a high sense of responsibility, with full respect for the Constitution and the laws of the state and, in particular, at this difficult time that we are going through, both in terms of external and internal threats. Police ensure the stability of democracy against any threat. It is the minimum recognition that all officials of the Greek Police, from its recommendation in 1984 to today, have paid a heavy blood tax, numbering a hundred sixty dead in duty and over two thousand injured Greek and Greek police officers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here seeking a common place with those sincerely interested in everyone enjoying security for their lives and property without exception. The Greek police are a living organization. The main concern of all of us is the targeted treatment of those functions, which present documented weaknesses in the direction of a functional redefinition of the body away from delusional and exiles. To this end, a concrete commitment was already announced by the Minister for Civil Protection. The aim is to improve the operation of Greek Police's first response services, upgrade the training of all police personnel and how the Police Academy operates. On the occasion of the question I give you the press release with the statements by the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, on the initiatives we take, not because you do not know them, but to take them into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, can I correct any of my words, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u13	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u14	I don't want to answer the Minister, I respect the procedure. It is only at the edge of my speech, Mr President, that I regret very hard on this, as I was not aware of the word 'positive' for ladies, which Mr Chrysochide and Mr Loverdo gave their names to the public. I would like to replace the term, which, unfortunately, I used and regret, by the term 'positive prostitutes', which is the real term. The other is abusive and does not express me at all, we are just human beings and sometimes we make mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u15	Of course, thank you. Let's go to the ninth with number 139/1-11-2021 topical question from the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Aid measures for firms and workers in earthquake areas and the introduction of a special payment due to emergency". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been over a month since the catastrophic earthquake in Heraklion Prefecture and problems are emerging, growing and exacerbated. It was created with the first government announcements that the expectation that there would be no bureaucracy, and indeed for the initial advances there was an easy, very easy, I would say, which has then changed. The housing aid now goes on to rehabilitate it with obstacles, as is, of course, aid for rehabilitation. Owners face many problems, depending on each other, and there is currently no need to respond to them. I have already raised the problem with the owners who acquired a legacy or bought up to 26 September and the legacy transfer or acceptance process has not been completed. There are many such problems. But the main problem it has at the moment, especially for the large settlements, is putting an obstacle to the reconstruction process. There are many cases where there are housing, professional housing and warehouses. You should choose the man or the house to make either the shop or the store or the warehouse. It is right that there should be a limit, but the hundreds of fifty squares should relate separately to the residence, and separately, if there is a professional housing. There are issues about the loss of income of professionals, workers. There is no concern so far but to rebuild the building or compensate the raw materials, goods, etc. For the loss of income nothing. What we therefore call for is that there should be a plan and a programme to compensate the company and the workers for special aid. It may be, as is the case with the repayment of the advance applied during the pandemic period and special purpose compensation for the worker. I also have to tell you about a matter of the Ministry of Finance concerning quarterly or other periodic reporting obligations in myDATA. For example, third-quarter VAT: no suspension or extension has been granted to them. So we want you to tell us all about all this if you've worked out some solutions and if you intend to change, you want to modify the CSR on the upper square cap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Vésyropoulou, good morning, good week! You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I must point out that the government has given tangible samples of writing since the first time, and has been mobilised to support all those affected by the earthquake of 27 September 2021 in Crete. Specific provisions on State aid to natural and legal persons were laid down directly, which were affected and promoted the implementation of targeted financial support measures for both the affected and the rehabilitation of the regions. At the same time, the arogi.gov.gr platform has been extended in order to grant the aid concerned through it. It is noted that, until now, the Ministry of Finance has paid compensation for a total of EUR 18,649,907,92 to a total of two thousand, thirty-eight beneficiaries affected by the earthquake. Amongst other things, the following have been implemented: Firstly, the granting of first aid to owners of business establishments, homes and other buildings affected by the earthquake, of EUR 14 000 or EUR 8 000 or EUR 3 000, depending on the size of the estimated losses. Beneficiaries of first aid are owners of real estate in full or incomplete ownership, including business premises damaged by the earthquake, as they arise from the most recent E9. Secondly, the grant of first aid to the grant for damages to equipment and production facilities of EUR 8 000 or EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000, depending on the size of the damage to the installations. Beneficiaries are undertakings regardless of their legal form, including agricultural holdings, as well as non-profit-making entities, which have suffered material damage caused by the earthquake to assets such as equipment, raw materials, goods, means of production, stored products, etc. I should inform you that in the first phase the arogi.gov.gr platform opened on October 6th in order to accept requests for areas of the Municipalities of Minoa Pediadas and Archanna Asterousias of the Regional Unit of Heraklion, the Region of Crete, which have been affected by the earthquake. In the second phase, in the joint ministerial decisions of 22 October 2021, the platform was extended for those affected in other areas who had so far not joined the perimeter of beneficiaries of first aid. What about the workers? In order to ensure jobs, a draft legislative provision has been drawn up to introduce emergency measures to address the effects of the phenomenon on businesses and workers. According to this, private sector enterprises and employers in the areas affected, regardless of industry and business, are allowed to suspend employment contracts of a part or all of their employees from the date of occurrence of the natural phenomenon and for up to three months. Persons who are suspended shall be beneficiaries of exceptional financial assistance, as compensation for a specific purpose of an amount of EUR 534 corresponding to 30 days on a pro rata basis of the days during which their employment contracts are suspended, and a Christmas gift ratio. In addition, for workers whose employment contracts have been suspended, full insurance shall be provided, calculated on their nominal salary. For the rest, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The initial amount you have secured for the residential restoration of the area is shown to be small. While, at the outset, the platform was opened and it was possible for everyone who was affected, on their own responsibility, to declare the level of damage, since the controls had not gone ahead, there was obviously the phenomenon of a great deal of absorption through advances of money. Then came this and was interrupted. It was interrupted, precisely because if you make a simple calculation of more than six thousand yellows and if these could, according to the original procedure, state the means or the maximum of the advance, the money that would be required was multiple of what you secured, you stopped the procedure. That's obvious from the numbers. Or should there be a more regular procedure at the outset so that they cannot, by their own assessment - therefore arbitrarily and arbitrarily - declare the level of damage or the checks have been made much faster to make payment of the advance on the basis of the form and assessment of the engineers who visit the building. That's the one. Therefore, today, you need to see the money that is needed and the procedures that need to be done, the corrections, so that this process can proceed smoothly. The second is: There is the cut-off of fifty squares. It says, therefore, that while you replied that this was only about the advance, so that there would be a limitation, it was then proved that it was also about the full compensation. So, at least, he was made public. We are dealing with damages in one or two houses that a owner and a store, a warehouse that should be compensated for by a hundred and fifty square sq. sq. s. State aid. It can't be done. The FMC should be amended. It is the main demand of professionals in the area, seismopaths in the area, to separate a hundred and fifty squares for housing, a hundred fifty squares for professional housing, warehouses and other uses. The third point is obligations. As you have rightly made the decision at the beginning to suspend certain obligations for six months, to enter other obligations in the half-yearly suspension, or at least, by the end of the year, if necessary, to close the accounts of the year, whichever is necessary. As for the loss of income for professionals and businesses, you mentioned - and this is a positive development - that a joint ministerial decision will allow three months - I see it a little, because business will not be restored in the quarter - the possibility of suspending workers. This is a positive development. At the same time, however, you must see for the professional and the business that has been closed down. He has a family, too, and he can't survive. So there I come with the proposal that there should be a special payment - as with the refundable advance for the pandemic - payment for compensation. This is the way to tackle both the business of a professional and the worker. Finally, I have submitted to you a number of issues put forward by region accountants for questions that need to be answered. I hope that through a process - which you will have to inaugurate - you will have to open a box of problems for the implementation of decisions on earthquake-stricken areas, ask the question, and directly answer it from the Ministry of Finance in order to have an immediate response. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have three minutes for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, tax and insurance obligations were suspended six-monthly. So from the date of the earthquake, which was September 27, plus six months, they have been suspending tax and insurance obligations. The government's intention is to facilitate businesses in the question of the repayable advance you mentioned earlier. With regard to the repayment of the aid received under the advance repayment scheme, I must point out that the refund procedure has already been initiated in all cases under certain conditions. This means that this possibility will be granted subject to compliance with the obligation to maintain staff, as set out in each cycle of the refundable advance payment of the following rates: First, for enterprises that have started work before 1 January 2019, they did not open a branch on 1 April 2019 to 31 December 2020 and have positive gross revenues in 2019, as long as the reduction of the company’s gross revenues exceeds 70 % in relation to the revenues of 2019 and the company presents losses before tax, 33,3 % in so far as the reduction of the company’s gross revenues amounts to at least 30% and 70 % in relation to the revenues of 2019 and presents losses before tax and 50 % in the case of other undertakings. Secondly, for enterprises that have started operations after 1 January 2019 or have opened a branch between 1 April 2019 and 31 December 2020 or have zero gross revenue in 2019, there will be a 25% refund of the aid if the reduction of the company’s gross revenues exceeds 30% in relation to the revenues of 2019 and the company presents losses before tax, at 33,3 % of the aid for other undertakings. In the same direction, the increase in the instalments for repayment of the repayable aid in sixty equal monthly instalments, which will now be disbursed, is also intended to allow a one-off payment of the repayable aid to be granted before the end of the grace period, i.e. on 31 December 2021 with a 15% discount on the repayable amount. With regard to the letter you have put in mind by the accounting officers of Arkalochori, I note the following. In order to resolve possible technical issues addressed in the submission of applications to the arogi.gov.gr platform and cannot be resolved by means of the relevant Directives already published, a relevant communication with relevant requests has been foreseen. The procedure to be followed following the submission of the application for housing assistance is laid down in detail by the relevant Ministerial Decisions. I have already referred to the question of the suspension of workers and the payment of special-purpose allowances. On the issue of repayable advances I mentioned just before not only the intention but also the actions of the government to facilitate businesses in the matter of their return. For the transmission of myDATA documents, all proposals submitted by the competent bodies and final decisions shall be made in the light of productive reconstruction, social justice and the effective implementation of tax policy. To obtain housing assistance due to the death of the co-owner of a building or invaluable completion of procedures for the transfer of property or invalid acceptance of your inheritance, I mention that in life a co-owner may submit without any problem electronic request to the platform for state aid for the percentage that corresponds to him. For the remaining percentage, as well as for other cases where property is acquired, the procedures laid down by law should be complied with. In any case, the beneficiaries may lodge an application with the natural disaster recovery department which is subject to the Ministry of Infrastructure in order to carry out autopsy by the competent bodies and subsequently restore their damage. To sum up, our Government has been blessed from the outset for all those affected by natural disasters. Of course, we continue to listen to all the issues that may arise and immediately proceed to resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Besyropoulou. And since it is against me that Mr Kegeroglou will not discuss the sixth question of the second cycle of the Herculus Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Great problems are created by the government's decision on the distribution of pastures - large reductions in subsidies'. Nor will the second question, with number 137/1-11-2021, be discussed in the context of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, with the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Integration of the earthquakes of vast areas into a programme of energy clearing and integration of buildings to be rebuilt in the 'EXCOCOGMOVO BANK' - self-evidently the 'blank' of current accounts'. An eighth question will be discussed under number 118/29-10-2021 in the second SYRIZA SYRIZA SYRIZA Association - Vassilis Kokkalis Vassilis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'January' - A year after the statement'. Mr. Red, good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u24	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you. Minister, first of all, I would like to say that the question was addressed to Mr Triantopoulos on the grounds that the government should answer us as a whole on the course of damage recovery due to the flooding of Janus on 18 September 2020 in all areas: infrastructure, agricultural crops, businesses. However, the answer was that it does not have competence. The question is: is this the ultimate state? The Ministry of Finance has been selected. Of course, the debate is also about agriculture. I know you're not in charge. Without being the subject of the present I would like, Mr Minister, to ask the Government today, the joint ministerial decision that applies to Crete, for Farsala, for Carditsa, for Damasi and for Messochori. Why am I saying that? Because in Crete all property is compensated for up to a hundred square meters. All of them! And they do well. Like all companies. Unfortunately, in Farsala and Damasi, only one. Isn't that unequal treatment between similar situations? That is why I appeal today and ask the government to apply the KLA to the earthquakes in Ellas and also to the flood victims. Now, I'll bring you the reality. What's the reality? That companies have only received 20% of the grant. Just 2%! Secondly, ELGA has not compensated for multiannual crops. Not at all. And thirdly, the objections are still pending. And one last, Mr Minister: the companies that had been stored in products still have not completed the process, not compensation, but registration! And it runs counter to the press release of the Ministry of Rural Development on 3 November 2020, one and a half months after the flood, ‘previously the speed of payment and the level of compensation to the affected farmers of Janus’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, it is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis who established a new state aid system, a standard scheme for compensation for those affected by natural disasters. This was last April and for the first time a permanent stable and automated framework for the early support of the natural disasterd people was introduced in our country. In September 2020, when the Ionian Islands, Central Greece and Thessaly were affected by "Janus", it was not yet institutionalised. The government, however, immediately retrospectively adopted and implemented a holistic package of measures for the rapid and fair support of the affected, but also the quickest possible restoration of the damage. And of course, the region of Thessaly became the beneficiary of targeted and specific support measures such as: First pillar of support measures were the immediate measures to suspend business and worker protection obligations, which included: Suspension of payment of all outstanding accredited and due tax liabilities for both enterprises and natural persons for six months. Suspension or regulation of credit commitments to the citizens of the regions affected, in cooperation with the Hellenic Banking Union. Suspension for one year of auctions and seizures on movable or immovable property of natural or legal persons in the affected areas. Protection of jobs in the affected areas for a quarter and financial assistance of EUR 534 to workers whose contract of employment was suspended. Arrangement and suspension of insurance obligations of undertakings in affected areas for a period of six months. Characterisation as tax-free and indemnification of aid and compensation to natural and legal persons affected. The second pillar was the restoration of infrastructure damage. In order to rebuild network and flooding infrastructures, a total of EUR 338 million was channelled through the Public Investment Programme to the affected municipalities and regions by the relevant ministries. Of these EUR 232 million concern interventions and projects for the Region of Thessaly. Other phases of funding are of course under way, as the recovery process has a long-term horizon. Concurrently, anti-military armour and protection from concessionaires in the Regional Units of Karditsa, Trikalons and Phytotidas amounting to EUR 85 million. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food and Interior has provided EUR 3.6 million for the Local Improvement Agency in order to restore damage to irrigation networks and related infrastructures. The third pillar of support is linked to aid measures for enterprises, farms and farmers. According to data, six thousand forty-seven enterprises received from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport a single aid of 8,000 euros each. The total sum of EUR 48.4 million was aggregated. A large part of this amount was channelled to the businesses of Thessaly, while the payment procedure and the latest outstanding payments will be completed in the next few days by the Ministry responsible after the extraordinary financing following the supplementary budget. It is also particularly important to mention that within the fourth cycle of the repayable advance four thousand five hundred and twenty-two companies in Thessaly received a total of EUR 5.2 million as financial support from the Ministry of Finance without having a turnover reduction, but as an additional measure of support due to the naturality. By the summer of 2021, an advance of 20% of the estimated loss was granted to three thousand hundred and twenty-five enterprises and farms with an amount of EUR 8.8 million. It was the first time that it was decided to grant an advance in compensation to undertakings affected by natural disasters and the first time that they became beneficiaries of compensation for agricultural holdings. In my dentext I shall refer to even more measures and support actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u27	You can tell me what you want as long as you keep the time. I understand that the questions are a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u28	There are too many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u29	I understand. No problem, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Cocksucker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think we will agree with the phrase: what has fallen, what has been destroyed must be fixed. Right? I repeat this is not a timely matter. In Crete this is true. And it's good that it's true. To apply both to Damasi and the Farsala. There are people who, apart from home, have a warehouse and because they are over one property has not been compensated. I think it is fair that this decision should apply to the regions of Thessaly. Now because you numbered me what exactly the government of Mr. Mitsotakis has done, listen. When a house is broken or flooded and man loses his job suspending seizures and tax obligations is not a gift, it is the state's self-evident obligation. As is self-evident is the obligation to pay compensation in time. And I'm gonna ask a rhetoric question, I'm not gonna answer it. Christos Triantopoulos, 21 September 2021, the Minister of Finance's decision was published in the Official Journal of the Government: ‘Definition of a subsidy for flooded people in Farsala’, FEC 21/9/21. A year later, Minister - will you tell me that it is not your responsibility - when the decision is adopted, when the decision is still in place, we are talking about the timely response to the consequences of the flood or the earthquake? I believe that this is inverted by common sense and by reality itself. I told you before. You said numbers, you said numbers. Entrepreneurs have only received 20%. Will they get the rest? It's either yes or no. Many crops have not even been compensated and there is no road map, such as multiannual ones. Objections. There's still not a single objection. I wish they'd be quick. You know, reality is different from what we want to happen and be done immediately. When the decision of the competent Minister for the Floods in Farsala and Karditsa is issued a year later - one year later, the FEK says so - we cannot talk about timely treatment. Mr President, I should like to close with the urge once again the decision on earthquakes in Crete, which are compensated for by all the property and all the businesses, to apply to the region of Larissa, both to Damasi and Mesochori, but also to the Farsala. I think it's fair and we need to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Red. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, a year has passed since the disaster and within an environment of limitations and difficulties from the coronary pandemic the second phase of business compensation has already begun, which totalled 55% of the estimated damage. I must point out that in similar cases in the past - because you were four and a half years government - the grant only reached 30% and was granted after three or more years. Go back to the past and you'll see. The second phase of compensation shall include the adoption of the final grant decisions following the submission of the relevant aggregated lists by the region, the examination of the beneficiaries’ supporting documents and their repayment. To date, the final decisions on the Regional Units of Magnesia, Larissa and Trikala have already been adopted, and a final decision on the Carditsa Regional Unit is expected to be made and the supporting documents have already been examined and the final payments to the beneficiaries will be intensified. I should like to list briefly the details per county: in the Regional Unit Carditsa the amount to be allocated to three thousand thirty-nine beneficiaries amounts to EUR 27.1 million. In the Regional Unit of Larissa, the sum to be allocated to nine hundred and thirty-three beneficiaries amounts to EUR 3.3 million. In the Regional Magnesia section, the sum to be allocated to three hundred eighty-eight beneficiaries amounts to 1.9 million euros. In the Regional Unit of Trikala, the sum to be allocated to a hundred thirty-three beneficiaries is EUR 241.636. In total, the amount allocated by the Ministry of Finance to five thousand twenty-three businesses and farms in Thessaly amounts to about 34.3m euros. Immediately the mobilisation of the ELGA with the total amount allocated to date was EUR 60 000 000. And in this case a large part of the amount was directed to producers in Thessaly. In fact, this is the first time that payments have been made in such a short time. Continuing analysis of the package of support measures follows the fourth pillar. The fourth pillar, therefore, concerns households and housing assistance to natural persons. The amount available from the Ministry of Interior to the eight affected municipalities of Thessaly for social protection actions amounted to 10.5m euros. The total amount available for all affected municipalities reached 16.6m euros. Thirteen thousand and sixteen beneficiaries received from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport a single payment of 5,000 euros for housing losses with the total aid amounting to 58.1 million euros. Again an important part was affected in Thessaly. The initial estimate for housing assistance with repair and reconstruction of buildings in natural and legal persons amounts to EUR 40.6 million. This aid concerns buildings affected by both the cyclone and the floods which followed. The amount of the rental subsidy to cover temporary accommodation costs is estimated at EUR 2.5 million and has a two-year horizon. It is therefore widely understood that the government, in close cooperation with local government, has activated and implemented a set of measures to support citizens - the compensation of businesses, farms and farmers, the restoration of damage, but also the upgrading of the development potential of the regions affected, including Thessaly - and most of all with the speeds which the citizens had not been used to in the past. And I close my position, as I started, by pointing out that the new institutional framework for state aid is a top reform of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Law4797/2021 digitised and simplified procedures and widened the support grid for the affected in order for in future the state mechanism to move at a faster pace than the ones of the past. This is also an important step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. The second question, under number 136/1-11-2021, will not be asked after consultation with the second question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct payment of aid to producers of Aetolokarnania" and the first question under number 115/29-10-20201, the second question of the Parliamentary Kastoria of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Olympia Teligoridou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Illegal distribution of the National Reserve of Basic Aid Rights in P.E. Kastoria’. And we go to the next, in the tenth, with number 133/1-11-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP for the second cycle - the Progressive Alliance of Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Direct restoration of gross injustice against pensioners on the taxation of retrospectives for the period 2015-2016, on the 2012 cuts". Mr. Triantafylide, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start and please don't get out of eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. The issue on which we control you, Minister, concerns the unacceptable and unjust overtaxation of the retrospectives imposed by your Government and directly affects the daily life of more than one million two hundred thousand pensioners, in times of pandemic and accuracy. They are the retrospectives they took a year ago with decisions of the Greek justice of the Council of State. And from the result, Mr. Besyropoulou, punishing and avengeing them, you get them back through exterior taxation. In particular, these are the retroactive cuts in the Memorandum Laws 4051 and 4093 of 2012 on the main pensions for the 11th month of June 2015-May 2016, cuts that were judged to be unconstitutional and returned to pensioners in October 2020. In fact, it is a matter of sums granted five years late and without even the estimated interest of 6% per annum following a series of judgments, administrative courts. I refer for example to the 3338/2021 and 3350/2021 and the 504/2021 of the Court of Auditors. By decision of 23-02, the commander of ADI has taxed these amounts together with the incomes and tax rates of 2015 and 2016 and, in addition, with the special solidarity levy on incomes above EUR 12000, resulting in a total tax - a refund which amounts to more than 55% of the retroactive amount. I will submit to the Practical Publications of the "Privats' Newspaper" Christina Kopsini with a specific example of the amount of tax imposed - and that is why there is no personal data, it has been recorded - by the President of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Retired Personnel Insurance Mr. Aristotle Kanda. Notes: For 2015 with a retroactive amount of EUR 1721,46 the additional tax to be reimbursed by that pensioner is EUR 688, while for 2016 and for the amount of EUR 1130, 43 is to be paid by the same tax of EUR 395,61. You also obligate pensioners to submit an amendment to these amounts by 31/12-2021 with the additional financial burden on pensioners for the remuneration of their accountant, while the tax resulting from these declarations has to be paid by 31 January 2022. In other words, you're not just exaggerating them, but you're putting the knife in the neck with the minimum time margin you give for the repayment. In short, you did not return them legally with 6% of their own money, you do not tax them on the basis of the 20% rate, as the law of your Government, New Democracy, Law No 4172, Article 43a and Article 60(4), and you do not tax them automatically at a rate of 20% on the basis of the SYRIZA law under Articles 10 to 15 of Law No 4575 of December 2018 on special wages. And let one imagine and take into account the comparative view that, at that time, our SYRIZA government - because you said so in the previous question - operated under the troika's bite, aspiring budgetary constraints in relation to figures and indicators. You do not operate within these strict budgetary margins, Minister. What are you doing? You set up a punishing factor - axe up to 55%, a coefficient - lame Mitsotakis, making it perfectly justified the sense of the excitement that Greek retired people feel, who received with one hand as retrospectively, the state by means of taxation takes them away from the other. Who? Their money. And you do not do what is clear, assimilate the tax rate, 20% to all pensioners. And I end up with this. All these letters, which I have on my hands, I shall be tabling in the Minutes. It is from the Panhellenic Association of Retired Personnel Security EIB (POSEPA) with the signature of their president, Mr. Kandas. It is one of the Co-operative Pensional Organisations, dated 26-10-2021 with the respective signatures. It is from the Hellenic Higher General Confederation of Pensioners, which ask for an autonomous tax on their retrospectives at a rate of 20% based on the equal tax treatment to be applied to the beneficiaries of the special wages. It's from the Panhellenic Federation of Civil Retired Persons. All these have been sent to Mr Stakoura, to you the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it is the letter of the Single Retired Persons Network signed by Mr Hatzopoulos and Mrs Murriki, and they are asking for a uniform, equal treatment, a single attitude, 20% rate of taxation. Where did you get it up to 55%, Minister? And I say this - I am, of course, waiting for your answer - because to a written question from Members of the SYRIZA, you answered and said so. I have your answer here. ‘In any case, the Ministry of Finance shall examine all proposals for changes and improvements to tax legislation submitted by entities and associations.’; These are the bodies and clubs. Signature: Apostolos Veyropoulos. So I expect to see what you wrote, do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Okay, you didn't spend eight minutes. You stopped at six and something. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, I have answered colleagues' questions with the same topic, giving details. I should first like to remind you that the matter arose after court rulings, and this government has proved in practice that it respects judicial decisions on the return of retroactives. In fact, it extended the scope of the potential beneficiaries of the judgments in question, even if they did not file an appeal. How did that happen? With our amendment and vote in July 2020, which extended the reimbursement of the retrospectives for the ninth month of June 2015-May 2016 and for those of the pensioners they had not filed an appeal before the administrative courts. I note that the decisions of the Council of State Nos 1439 and 1443 provided clearly for a return of the retrospectives only to those who had brought proceedings. But our Government has not remained in this, in extending the number of beneficiaries for the payment of retroactives. By voting on No 4701/2020, and in particular Article 30, we have given the best possible and realistic solution to the problem with retroactive pension amounts, for which pensioners were asked to pay tax. In fact, we had to deal with the problem of a large number of retroactive pensions, collected in 2013 by the beneficiaries, who, however, did not include these amounts in their tax declaration, resulting in tax being charged. There were also cases in which a number of tax-setting operations occurred, which were issued despite the fact that these incomes were included by the taxpayers in the declarations submitted. Through the legislation, which we have brought and voted on, all these people have been given the opportunity to submit amending declarations to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed in the year in which they are actually raised rather than total in the year in which they were collected. It was also predicted that fines would not be imposed, while the imposed increases to pensioners who have been late in their first pension for their unreported retrospectives were considerably reduced. In my second speech, Mr President, I shall refer to more detail on the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Besiropoulos. Mr. Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u38	Minister, we are in this House, we are not at a tax conference and I therefore expect a political response expressing the political will of your government, unless you do so again for reasons of communication, namely what? Get your MPs out at the cafes of Imathia, Pella, etc. And tell what a complaint you retired people have, we gave you 1,400,000, not knowing that half of them have been taken back through this tax rate up to 55%. I really wonder if you've realised that we're talking about retired people, about the partisans of life, about people who paid for a shuttle detention for a lifetime, so that they have the necessary things they've kept. You abolished them at the beginning, in 2010, 400 euros from the 13th and 14th pensions. Then you disappeared the Christmas presents, Easter, etc. Your Memorandum Governments! Then we entered a process, which has to do with the pandemic, where the whole world really needs to be kept from somewhere. And what are you doing? Give them back and then take them back. You put them and a fine and invite them to run as well, and on the basis of the information you have in both e-ECA and EDP, they could do so without all these procedures being needed. Honestly, you have an intolerance - I understand you, because it is not the first time - because you gave it because you were obliged to do so because of the decisions of the Council. You broke your rule. What's your rule? Take one of the many and give them to the few. This is what you did with PPC, with the sale, this is what you do with the popular markets, which you dedicate to the five chains of supermarkets etc. So, he misappeared to you because you gave the people and you say how we will get back to always apply the New Democracy rule to take from many to give the few, the oligarchy of wealth and apply and confirm? I expect you to disprove me, Mr. Besiropoulos. Go out and say - leave tax and decision and amendments, etc. - Why does the exclusive 20% rate not apply? He was also provided for by your 2013 law in Article 60, we anticipated it, and so there can be no special payrolls with 20% and all the others with 55%. It contravenes and violates essential rule of Constitutional law. All Greeks are equal and enjoy parity and equity, isopoliticalism. How do you put them in this magnificence in times of memorial, grandparents and grandparents, who should be able to kiss them for what they have given to keep the country and the country up. Honestly, I'm surprised about what you're doing and I'm waiting to see what you're going to do, because you wrote this here. You say about social justice: Final decisions set the limit and criterion for sustainable development and social justice. Is that social justice? We showed it, we proved it as SYRIZA. In times of commemoration, with the gun on the head, we said a tax rate for the special wages of 20%. Do it, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr Colleague, following what I mentioned in my protocol, I note that those who received retroactive remuneration in the year 2020, which go back to tax years 2015 and 2016, should submit amending statements. I should also like to remind you that the specific tax treatment introduced for beneficiaries of the retroactive remuneration and pensions paid under Articles 10 to 15 of Law 4575/2018 - the one you mentioned - which clearly provided that a 20% withholding tax was paid, including the special solidarity levy. I would say again, when these amounts were paid, that is, last October. I am referring to No 4172/2013, as you said, in the third subparagraph of Article 60(4). What does that mean? It means that there was a pre-paid tax in payment of the retrospectives and it did not have to be ensured by submitting the tax declaration after a year, now that we are talking about it. The date of acquisition of the retroactive measures was considered to be the tax year 2018. For what you've given, we're talking about special payrolls. There is no such arrangement for amounts paid under the relevant GFCM as a refund for private sector pension reductions or for amounts paid under the relevant GFCM as a refund for public sector pension reductions. The specific joint ministerial decisions, which I mentioned, provided for the payment of the retrospectives, without any withholding tax and a special solidarity contribution. These revenues are therefore subject to the general provisions of the general rules, i.e. the scale applicable for the tax years 2015-2016, where these incomes are deducted. Therefore, cases are divided. This means that the retroactive measures provided for in accordance with Law 4575/2018 refer to one-off financial amounts to active executives in the general public sector and the pensioners of the particular categories, while the retrospectives of Articles 33 and 34 of Law 4734/2020 concern all pensioners in the public and private sectors, in accordance with the relevant provisions. In particular, in order to make it clear more clearly, SYRIZA's Law 4575/2018 provided for the payment of a single amount of money to members of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies, the public-health doctors of the ESS, the members of the ICPs of the country's universities, the TEI's OP members, the judiciary officers and the members of the chief staff of the Legal Board of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u41	Did they do it good or bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u42	These special categories of retired persons include several high-wage workers who, under the relevant provisions, are automatically subject to a higher rate of taxation. On the other hand, our government Law 4734/2020 shared all pensioners in the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u43	55%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u44	In your question, you have spoken and repeated that too many times for taxation up to 50% of the amount of retroactives. You mentioned here, with a tax rate of 45% and 10% a solidarity contribution is 55%. Do you know what income these are? Mr. Triantafylides, it's Mr. Alexiadis behind you, my colleague. Let us know a little bit, Mr Alexiadis, what income he's talking about. You are talking about pensioners' incomes of over 40,000 euros and a solidarity contribution of over 50,000 euros. As you know, there are not many charges...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u45	For example, I have mentioned some specific examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u46	Will you listen to me, Mr. Triantafylides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Triantafylides, you have not been interrupted by Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u48	You'll be patient to hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u49	You're right, Minister. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u50	As you know, there are not many categories of pensioners who receive a pension of EUR 30,000 or EUR 40,000 or EUR 50,000 a year, i.e. over EUR 3 000, EUR 4 000 or EUR 5 000 a month. Further, how can this be done now? It is practically impossible to do so at this point in time, since the 20% withdrew of the tax liability is at the source, i.e. when the retroactive amounts were paid, which took place a year ago. Then you can sit with Mr Alexiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u51	Leave the hints, they'll find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u52	He'll be able to explain exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u53	The President will give me the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u54	No, no. I won't give you the floor, you'll tell each other. Please continue, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u55	You can explain it to them. Let me also remind you that with joint ministerial decisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u57	Because it was, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u58	I know what happened to Alexiadis. They'll tell each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, the attitude of the State Secretary is offensive. I don't need anyone's tutorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u60	No, please, it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u61	It is not offensive, Mr President. I respect my colleague, but because the expertise of the former State Secretary and colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u62	I understand what you're saying. Mr. Triantafylides, the Minister is not one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u63	He can confirm what I'm saying if it's wrong or right. I would also remind you that joint ministerial decisions have made arrangements, among other things, how and when the repayable amounts of pensions reductions in private and public pensions are paid. According to these, the payments were made without the deduction of income tax under Article 60 of Law 4172 and the special solidarity contribution provided for in Article 43a of Law 4171/2013. Let me repeat once again that the retroactive payments made in 2020 are neither charged with late submissions nor with late payment interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u65	I hope the retireds listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Triantafylides, now you can tell Mr. Alexiadis. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u67	Give me the floor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u68	No, not between you two, not answer. Between you and me, if there's anything the Undersecretary said. However, Mr Triantafylides, the State Secretary is not one of those who insult. And you raised tons and the answer was tons. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u69	But he didn't say 55 after all, did he? He didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u70	We continue with the twelfth with the number 135/1-11-2021 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The 70% of the municipal districts of the municipalities of Heraklion that were declared in an emergency because of the earthquake of 27 September are outside the Housing Assistance (S.A.).(')'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, let me say something. I think I was clear. They must submit amending declarations for the years that come -2015-2016 - and should be taxed with the relevant tax rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u72	I think he heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u73	Because the majority of retired people are 22%...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u74	And 20% for the others for whom it has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u75	It's 22% for the majority of 1.2 million retired people with 22% a year after...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u76	Please. We went to the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u77	...and not last year, according to the source that took the one-off amount. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u78	Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u80	But you gave the floor to the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u81	I didn't give the floor. I was reading and getting up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u82	Because he's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u83	I told him to sit down and sit down. We continue with Mr Vardakis' question. Mr. Vardakis, good evening, and good week. You have two minutes to start, in low tones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, first of all, these debates must be held in a calm climate...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u85	That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u86	... so that we can express our views and find any solution to some serious issues. That's what timely questions are about. Before I begin my question, please note, Minister, this. A year ago, the floods took place in the Municipality of Hersonissos, which was declared in an emergency. After a year, no single euro has been compensated, especially businesses. Please write it down. On 22 October we had tabled this question, Minister, you had asked for a postponement, so I would ask you to accept another question on an issue which, if you give a solution, you will give great breath to people who today - believe me - are in total void. The truth is that until then, almost a month after the earthquakes, without calculating the earthquakes in July, there were much more problems than there are today. I want to be honest. They were, of course, problems that are related to the issues of your ministry. Because if I refer to other problems relating to other ministries, the situation, Mr. Minister, is tragic, it is at God's mercy. Homeless workers - the colleague told you earlier - entrepreneurship workers who have lost their jobs, despite the assurances, have not received the special-purpose allowance. Entrepreneurs have not received the social solidarity allowance we suggested. I am pleased to hear what you said earlier that a ministerial decision will be taken in the next period. It's welcome, Minister. We're waiting for her. Now I'll come to what's urgent, Minister, simple and understandable. I don't want you to tell me what the ministry is doing. You told Mr Kegeroglu earlier. Everyone judges. In fact, steps have been taken. But believe me, because of the German bureaucracy, much more problems are created than they are solved. I want to get out of here today and tell you with vividness and comprehensibility so that we do not go into other individual issues, give solutions to two serious issues. First, see why many of the earthquakemakers have not yet received the housing subscription. The other issue is what my colleague referred to a little earlier. The answer you have given, however, let me say that it does not cover the matter. It is possible to obtain housing assistance for those who either because of force majeure, death of owner or co-owner, either due to an untimely completion of the processes of transfer of property or for the timely acceptance of a legacy, are unable to submit the application on that platform. Of course, Minister, if you would - and I believe you will - give a solution today to these two issues, it is understood that it will be a gift if you do not give an extension to the specific date provided for the submission of these declarations, which, as you well know, expires on 15 November. For the truth, Minister, if you wish, I will submit to you later in the press releases entitled "In desperation of citizens, accountants, businessmen of the Municipality of Arkalochori". Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, in my reply to Mr Kegeroglou's question on the measures that have been activated to support businesses and workers, but also on the question of returning the repayable advance for the affected companies, our determination to support and facilitate those affected by the earthquake of 27 September is recorded. The arogi.gov.gr platform for aid opened on October 6th in order to submit applications from the areas affected by the Municipalities of Minoa Pediados and Arhannesian Asterousias of the Regional Unit of Heraklion. We were committed at the first time that the platform would be extended in parallel with the progress made by the authorities in the areas affected by the earthquake. Therefore, in practice by the Joint Ministerial Decisions of 22 October 1996, 999 and 1000, the initial decisions of 6 October 1997, 979 and 980 were amended and the second phase of the procedure extended the scope of the beneficiaries affected by the earthquake of 27 September 2021. With regard to your question about the schedule for payment of advance payments to the affected persons, I would like to say that the timetable is entirely in line with the course of applications and the flow of processing from the relevant departments. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of data, the Ministry of Finance has so far paid compensation totalling EUR 18,649,907,92 to a total of two thousand hundred and thirty-eight beneficiaries affected by the earthquake. In order to better and fairer payment of aid, beneficiaries should submit as supporting documents: The property re-checking document by the competent services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, by which the building has been considered to be dangerous for use, with the indication ‘red’, or temporarily unsuitable for use with the indication ‘yellow’ or suitable for use with the indication ‘green’ with slight damage to the earthquake, or alternatively the rapid autopsy card from the competent services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with which the building has been found not to be inhabited in the event that a re-control has not been carried out. With regard to the scheduled for Friday 15 October, the payment of the beneficiaries of the legal aid was justified by the emergency due to the bad weather, which suspended the operation of all public services in the Attica Region. The payment was made on the first working day immediately after Monday 18 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u90	Minister, as you understood from my position, there is no reason for opposition or communication tactics. We are trying to help resolve major issues of people currently being raised from everywhere. Trust me. Besides, Minister, we are all committed by the Prime Minister himself that we will not leave earthquakes in God's mercy. So we have an obligation to stand up to the circumstances. I repeat, Minister, and let me say this as understandable as I can: will you check in the next few days why many of our fellow citizens have not entered the housing aid programme? That's the one. Secondly, will you allow citizens to receive housing assistance, which, as I told you, because of force majeure - the death of owner or non-timely completion of procedures for the transfer of property or non-timely acceptance of inheritance - are they unable to submit their request to the platform? Minister, he died two months ago, who was the owner, to say it as simple and comprehensible as I can, of a house. Right now his heirs or his heirs cannot enter the arogi. So would a proposal - I say now - would it be for all these orphans to open up the AIA system and be declared in the E9 and thus move forward with the request for housing assistance? Secondly, as I have told you in my prototype, Minister, all this if you say today that 'yes, I shall see it in the next few days', so that all these proposals, commitments, implementation of commitments, if you will - we will see what you will say below - will give us an extension, because even the previous cases since 27 September have not been able to get into the arogi. So, Minister, I would ask you to start with this if an extension is given after November 15th.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vardakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u92	Mr Colleagues, the government has once again demonstrated that it responds directly and effectively to the needs of our compatriots who experience the effects of a natural disaster. It has shown in practice that its central objective was to provide rapid compensation and support for households, businesses and workers. I would point out again that the joint ministerial decisions of DGXXX 998,999 and 1000 have been amended and the second stage of the procedure has proceeded by extending the number of beneficiaries affected by the earthquake of 27 September 2021 and, among other things, the areas mentioned in your question have been included. From there on, what are the possibilities offered by the arogi.gov.gr platform since 22 October? Firstly, an application may be made for an advance on a grant for damages, equipment and production facilities. The application can be submitted by enterprises throughout the Municipality of Minoa and additional areas of the Municipality of Archanes Asterousia. Secondly, a grant application for housing assistance may also be submitted by the owners of buildings with damage to the earthquake and other areas of Crete that have been demarcated and put in an emergency, as included in the CRLs I mentioned before. Thirdly, an application for construction compensation may also be submitted by natural persons who use housing who have suffered damages due to the earthquake and other areas of Crete that have been demarcated and placed in an emergency and are included in the relevant CSTs. With regard to your additional and specialised question about the inability to apply for housing assistance due to the death of the joint owner of a building or non-timely completion of the processes of transfer of property or non-timely acceptance of your inheritance, we take into account that the living co-owner can submit without any problem an electronic application to the platform for state aid for the percentage that he is equal to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u93	The heir?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u94	The remaining percentage should comply with the procedures laid down by law, acceptance of inheritance and so on. In any case, the beneficiaries may lodge an application with the Natural Disaster Restoration Department, which is subject to the Ministry of Infrastructure, in order to carry out autopsy by the competent bodies and then restore their damage. To sum up, the Government and the Treasury continue rapidly to implement the earthquake-affected measures, with a view to the rapid relief of households and businesses and the reconstruction of the regions. We are here to deal with any other issues that may be created or even to update measures and interventions, if necessary, as is what you mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u95	Will you extend it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u96	We will look at all this. If required, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good day to both of you. And now we go to the next, the fourth with number 131/1-11-2021, a topical second-round question, by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct need for compensation and rehabilitation in Corfu because of "Ballou". Mr Arseni, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately, it hasn't been months since the great disaster in Corfu and it's like it's been forgotten about the government. We have the bouquets in the rivers, the river in Messongis and elsewhere to remain closed, we have the dissolution on the road, the walls that protect the property and the roads from the rivers and the streams that have not been restored. In other words, we have a Corfu that, in the next waterbath, will be in much worse condition than was found with "Ballos". If it was unarmed before "Black" today, Corfu is completely unarmed, precisely because all the protective measures taken at any time in the past have been dissolved. You're going to tell me: it was a big sink. We are talking about just seventy millimetres of rain, when the bad weather "Athena" was preceded in sixty, when a maximum rainfall that Corfu can give is almost three hundred millimetres of rain. But what's happened? Whilst the risk maps were never taken into account, they have never been taken into account now, and of course you are not actually making any progress in rehabilitation, you are not actually making progress in compensation, and you have actually forgotten Corfu. You went to the next disaster. This question seeks to make a commitment here in plenary on exactly what you will do for Corfu in terms of the 20 million people demanded by the municipalities - and you have only given 1 million - if they bring you proof of works and of payment to all three municipalities and what you are going to do with compensation as government. It is not possible to go from one disaster to another, not to take prevention measures, not to restore damage, not to compensate and just to wait next time, as happened in Ithaca last year and this year. These people must finally be compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Mr. Pecha, good week, you have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President, and I thank Mr Arseni for the question. It is now true that climate change is creating extreme weather phenomena, which are now so common that we must unfortunately be constantly prepared to avoid endangering lives and property. The main issue in these cases is the immediate reaction and, of course, it is better than healing - I will agree with Mr Arsenis here. A characteristic example is the case of Corfu, which was tested by the bad weather of "Black". I am referring here to the immediate reaction of the local mayors and the direct cooperation they had with the Civil Protection, for example, I know firsthand, Mr Arsenis, because we were at the conference of the CSCE in Thessaloniki, when Constantine Lessi, the mayor of southern Corfu, had direct communication with people who were at risk and in the conference we coordinated with Mr Stylianides before even the Civil Protection was notified with the warning system so that they could rush airways to decapitulate people and save human lives. I really want to congratulate both the Civil Protection, but also the Mayors and the communication network that they had both in southern Corfu and Corfu, so that we can protect, as far as we could, property, but above all protect people. We have since been in constant cooperation with them to support both the municipalities and the region and, of course, the citizens who have been faced with the brutal weather in mid-October. We have asked the first time for a record of the damage and for the relevant technical notes to be sent in order to proceed with the immediate assistance to deal with this natural disaster. Following letters from the Ionian Islands Region and the Municipalities of the Prefecture of Corfu and the Municipality of Ithaca, we proceeded directly to an emergency grant to deal with the consequences of bad weather. I mention that the Region of Ionian Islands was awarded a grant with the sum of EUR 500 thousand, the Municipality of Central Corfu and Diapondian Islands and the Municipality of South Corfu with the sum of EUR 300 000 each, the Municipality of Ithaca with the sum of EUR 400 000. I stress that this grant was made after the letters from the relevant bodies and without waiting for the technical bulletins to be sent. When all the necessary documents are submitted, of course, our services will examine them, assess the situation and assist again with extraordinary funding and the municipalities and the region. With regard to the social aid granted by the Ministry of the Interior - here are the allowances of EUR 600 to be paid to the first-living costs of those affected and their residence cannot be inhabited, but up to EUR 6 000 to restore the construction - I say that so far there are no such requests left to our service, because the damage has obviously not been recorded. As you know, the area has been declared in an emergency for six months and therefore there is room to submit these requests. Of course, these requests will be met, the citizens will get the money they deserve, because we have shown all the time that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is in such cases that we are immediately intervening and when there are substantiated requests we are meeting them with funding from the Ministry of the Interior and of course within the framework of the state aid that this government has put in place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Arseni, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on the Messongis River, I will not forget the conversation with one of the fishermen there, who, although never to be compensated for the damages from "Balloy", can not practice his profession, since the messenger's boulevard is closed and until it opens up is blocked inside the river where he was being bewildered so long with other fishermen. The situation is dramatic and the island continues to be cut in half. There are signs that cannot communicate with each other. But we also have the government's promise that with the abandonment of the municipalities and technical services at least it would send the army to do what the municipalities have done so far on their own. Four workers went to the military, made an on-the-spot investigation and left to study their evidence. No immediate restoration work, as used to be the case before. So here the question remains and we wonder if these 20 million euros will eventually be provided. You're saying you're waiting for the documents from the municipalities to submit all the supporting documents. We're worried. We are concerned about why we are seeing Ithaca, where the restorations and allowances for 2020 have not been made, and we have gone to the damage of 2021. We're worried, because we see that the big damage damage to Corfu is going away. You say the mayors did everything right. The Municipality of Central Corfu had 1 million euros available for flooding. If he had used that money, we wouldn't be talking about that damage right now. I don't understand how you see all the municipalities did what they had to do. What's your point of view? How is it possible to stay EUR 1 million indisposed that was predetermined to be used for flooding? And finally, there are the risk maps. These maps, what are they telling us? First of all, let us say that from the EUR 1 million that went to the two municipalities 0.5 is in the region. The rest shared in the two municipalities, about 0.5 million is what went to the two municipalities. With regard to the risk maps, the Civil Protection Policy, together with the municipalities, should make them a daily tool. What is the point of the firefighting coming with a risk map from the "Balloon" rafts, and this map has not been used as a daily work tool. Every week, it should be discussed how the anti-military works decided on are progressing on the basis of this map. It's self-evident. What are we waiting for? Is there going to be the next flood? You spoke of climate change - and I conclude, Mr President - and of extreme weather. It wasn't extreme the height of the rain that made the disasters. Seventy - nine millimeter rain is not an extreme weather phenomenon, however fast they fall. I would like to repeat that it can historically have been recorded in Corfu and almost three hundred millimeters of rain in a short time. So the worst can be in front of us and we're at the beginning of the rainy season. The infrastructure of Corfu is currently being sewed and needs immediate intervention. Let me just say to you: only the same phenomenon will happen with the bouquets, i.e. the closure of the rivers, closed from the moment, the flood will be shocking. Her effects on property will be shocking. The damage to the networks will be shocking. I would ask you very warmly to intervene immediately. What we have been seeing so far is a communication management. I'm sorry to say that. In fact, the fact that the rivers are still closed is something that is unspeakable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Here, Mr. Pecha, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I have two points in my dentistry. You have asked for a commitment, that the damage will be restored and that those who deserve money will receive it from the government and, of course, you have this commitment. I told you that we made first allocations of money based on the first assessment, and when we have the technical bulletins, we will proceed to whatever it takes. It's a matter of days, not months. Secondly, you spoke about the extreme phenomena and the preparation that we must have. I do not want anyone to forget, especially in this Chamber and all our fellow citizens, that we have spent a long-term period of great crisis, which has brought back too many projects, almost self-evidently, at regional and local level, as the consequences that we experienced since 2010, the signing of the memoranda and the shrinking of intervention through public finances for the sake of obvious reasons relating to the country's almost bankruptcy. What do we have to do now? Let's speed up. How do we speed up? Firstly, because we give priority to this. I would just refer you to the creation of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Climate Crisis, which is very important in order to allow many procedures made by many ministries to be coordinated. I would refer you to the fact that we had a bill on state aid, which moves much faster in compensation procedures for natural persons and businesses, including farms and the primary sector, such as fishermen. I do not know the specific example you said, but through ELGA, the ways in which they are compensated have changed and these cases have already been taken by 'January' and we have followed this model and all the other natural phenomena that we have experienced, from the floods in Evros to the earthquake in Thessaly or Samos. We also have another political conclusion, that this field of natural disasters and the response of the climate crisis to micropolitical conflicts is not appropriate. I fully understand that you know, Mr Arseni, very well, you are concerned yourself. It is another matter of moderation, mitigation for climate change, where we are doing all we can through efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, and it is another matter to adapt to what is going to happen, and the adaptation entails investments of many millions of euros. These investments need a plan and time is needed for the project. We are in a phase where such studies are carried out too many across the territory. You referred to the issues related to the water catchment areas. Fortunately, there are such studies on several points from the services of various ministries and on these maps we are prioritising our interventions, because the money - as you know - is not endless. If it were endless then there would never be a problem. But there must be prioritisations so that we can do the work that the citizens expect of us. It is not a matter of populism, it is a matter of cooperation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Minister. The best twin you've ever been. We continue with the eleventh question under number 134/1-11-2021 of a topical question by MP B3's South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Immediately the need for the construction of anti-military works for the recovery of the waters of Kifissos and Ilissos river". Mr. Muzala, good evening, good week. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u106	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you. Minister, I would like to thank you for being here today to respond. As far as I am concerned, you bear a burden which most of it does not belong to you - I will prove that in my dentistry - but I appreciate it very much. Because this question has had a complicated course for about a month and a half now from one ministry to another until you guys were here to accept. So much of what I'm about to say is not about you personally or your own responsibility. The problem raised by the question is this: Under the specific circumstances of climate change and with fires, what is happening under the deforestation of Parnitha in order to avoid flooding in the southern suburbs, where the kifis' estuary at sea is? What about Iliso? What about the rainwater pipelines? How will we not mourn victims and huge losses of property when with a small rain - as Mr Lekkas says, with forty-eight millimetres of water - we have very bad phenomena - you remember them recently in these areas? The same questions have been raised by the five Members of the SYRIZA of the southern suburbs, but it has - I must admit - and Mr Spanakis of New Democracy in the Ministry of Transport a corresponding question, as well as the Mayors of Piraeus, the Mayor of Tavrou, Kalithea, Rendi - Nice. The problem is acid. The problem is coming. The fires are over. With the floods in the South, what exactly is it planned to do and what is it now? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr Muzala. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Mr. Pecha, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Muzala for the question. Minister, thank you also for your understanding and your help to plan this response to parliamentary scrutiny. It is the government's duty - which is acting collectively, of course - to answer citizens through Members asking questions for parliamentary scrutiny. The recent fires in North Attica burned forest and bushes, which are located within the catchment area of the river Kifissos. It is also true that Kifissos is the primary recipient of the rainwater of Lefkanope and the contingents of events that have been pressed for years because of the great urbanisation. It is also true that every year we are faced with ever more intense and unpredictable weather conditions due to climate change and more climate crisis. Unfortunately, this three-fold of factors has led Kifissos to raise time by an additional volume of water and the need to build new modern anti-military works has become more imperative than ever. We all know, however, that the time, procedures and bodies involved between the central state and local government from study to the construction and delivery of such a project are many and cannot be seen from one day to the next. I would point out, however, that subsidiary actions and rapid intervention projects to reduce the flood risk must be carried out directly by the relevant bodies so that the flood-risk areas do not face similar and corresponding disasters. As part of the clearing of the responsibilities between forests and local authorities, the government took the first step immediately. A few days after the fires of August by the Act of Legislation of 13 August, which was ratified by Article 2 of Law 4284/2021, the forestry services of the decentralised administrations of the country were transferred to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy as a whole to personnel of organic and logistical facilities so that the actions of all the forest offices are coordinated and planned under the umbrella of the relevant Ministry. But there is still a lot to be done. And this is part of multi-level governance, something that we are working on at the Ministry of the Interior to clear up responsibilities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like your understanding in my prototype. On the issues of the Ministry of Interior, I would mention that we support the work of the municipalities and regions in institutional and economic terms. Institutionally, we have taken direct action to speed up projects and studies on control and control of flood flows in the four regions affected by this year's fires. In particular, under the provisions of Article 136 of Law 4831/2021, the regions enjoy a central role and conclude programmatic contracts with the relevant directorates of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy which have the relevant know-how. We have also given the opportunity to award public contracts for the flooding projects which will start until 30 November of the current year, in accordance with the negotiation procedure without prior publication or by direct award, depending on the level of the contract. In other words, we have resolved the hands of local government so that the procedures that lasted for more than six months would be completed within a few weeks. Mr. Muzalas as a financial minister knows that. With regard to the financing of flooding projects, it refers to the Antonis Tritsis programme that we are carrying out flooding projects in fifty one municipalities in the country's budget of 150 million euros. I also mention the assistance of the Ministry of Interior for the anti-military projects in the Attica region based on three concrete actions. Firstly, the Attica Region from August 10th to today has been financed by the Ministry of Interior with the sum of EUR 6,450,000 to deal with damage and disasters caused by the August fires. Secondly, the Ministry of Interior’s public investment programme has included a project entitled ‘Ilissos River Settlement Project’ with a body implementing the Region of Attica of EUR 10 million. Thirdly, the project "Antonis Tritsis" has included the project of the Municipality of Moschatos - Tavrou entitled "Urgent work for the integration of flooding infrastructure of the Municipality of Moschos" in total budget of EUR 2,737,120. Especially now, in the case of Kifissos and Ilissos, I am tabling relevant documents from the Attica Region, which is responsible for the design and study of new flooding projects and the co-authorised Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Transport. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For example, I note the following. Firstly, it has begun and is due to be immediately cleared up in the burnt areas of Afidnon, Varybobis and Thracedon by workshops in the Attica region. In addition, the region has prepared a comprehensive plan to address risks and propose projects and accelerate procedures for the overall flooding planning of the areas affected by the summer fires in 2021, which has been sent to the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Transport for their own actions. Secondly, the Ministry of Environment and Energy in the context of its own competences prepares a study of national importance entitled "Kifissos River Delimitation Plans on the Three Bridges - Ananti Red Mile as Attica Road to plan projects to address the flooding problems in this section due to the lack of the existing bed. Thirdly, the financing of anti-corruption and flooding projects in the areas of Varybobes, Kryoneri and Tatoi has been launched by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of EUR 18 285903. I mention this because this whole region is helping to bring the flooding phenomena down to the southern areas asked by Mr Mouszalas. Therefore, actions are taken and the Government is in absolute coordination of forces so that each body can support the necessary flooding projects in accordance with its responsibilities. We are also obliged as a government to try to resolve a matter for decades. It is the issue of anti-military armour, bearing in mind one great element that exists: the frequency and intensity of rainfall. We need to have a satisfactory counter-flood protection and a parallel improvement in the environment in Lefkanodi so that we do not come back to dangerous phenomena at regular intervals. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u109	Be well, Minister. Mr. Muzala, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u110	Reiterating my position that part of the responsibilities does not belong to the Interior Ministry and that I address the Government and not you, I would like to start by telling you that, the Mayor of Piraeus on 6 October - we all know who Mr Maralis is and obviously no one can say to him that he is SYRIZA - he said that the answers he has received - and the answers are about what you have given today, collecting from various other services, with a very peculiar need to say - 'we are not satisfied with them just confirming the division of responsibilities'. "Today, forty days after the first declarations for project start-ups - on 6-10, that is, forty days later - we know that there has not been a single project in the downstream and, moreover, the same is happening upstream." I can assure you that until five days ago in the downstream, i.e. in the Faliikos bay, no work has been started, no work has been stopped since 2019 and on the upside, now they are starting, that is, on the burnt 50 thousand acres that result, the waters are falling into the basin and Kifissos, now they are still starting cowards - they are cowardly. Minister, the region will be affected and the government's responsibilities will not be hidden. If we ask the question, it's not to stand up for you. I wish you could make the moves that are needed not to hurt these neighborhoods that are affected again, but we do not see that. We're saying that the anti-military channel in the Faliian Bay has not been completed, unreasonably by the periphery, with inappropriate excuses for the company's bankruptcy. In Faliro, there is a need to dive the sea, the cranes must dig. There are millions of tons of bass from the plays that have been done for the park and we do not know what state the rainwater pipelines, the surfaces, which are also falling. There must be a reliable plan to tackle overcrowding on the bridges and on the banks of the river, which does not exist. And finally in Parnitha they must go too fast and with very good design the dams, the studs. You know, Minister, those which were streams before the fire that went down to Kifissos, we were still worried about, now there is a river that will go down 4 million to 14 million cubic meters of water more than it was coming down. The system can't stand it. I would like to say to you here and to justify the imperfections, in my view, which you had in your reply, not for my benefit. The water service in the question of mayors responds with studies of 2008, 2012, 2015, 2004, before burning the fifty thousand acres, and the only one that is modern is one of 2021, which is communication campaigns to raise awareness of common local authorities. They say: "The design of new flooding projects and the correct functioning of existing water projects is not the responsibility of the water management' and concludes in another document that "the design, planning, preparation, supervision, control and approval of technical studies are the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport", which referred to our question. He didn't agree to answer our question. He didn't answer the mayors. You, at least, were kind enough to answer. ‘And at local level the combined study, construction and maintenance of flooding projects is the responsibility of the region’. The forestry arrangement also concerns decentralised administrations. Here's the part you're getting in touch. Minister, I'm ending with the last thing I want to say. I don't even intend to argue, to move legs in here and to blame. You have a huge government responsibility. If, with forty-eight millimetres of water, we lived what we lived 20 days ago, in a situation similar to what happened in Mandra, we will have victims, we will have huge disasters. I assure you that the works in the Falific Cove have not even started unless they started the day before yesterday. Until five days ago they hadn't even started. There's no machines to dig, there's no plan, there's nothing. On the burnt cowards now, cowards are starting to get into some studs. There is a government responsibility, Minister, and we will look for it. I hope that all these things will be done, that there will be no government's responsibility and that there will be the government's chance to say that we have done everything extremely well and we have not drowned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr Muzala. Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say something which seems to be not the case, that the millimetres of water were much more, Minister, at least when they fell and created the problem. I would also like to say that the night we held a meeting with Civil Protection and it was decided to close the National Road for the night hours the provision was such that it was necessary to take these measures, because we too are concerned about the possibility of the river going through all this water. If we weren't worried, we wouldn't be talking about these issues today. And I am glad that in your position you were really mild and we are seeing an issue that is unfolding, which is not months old, but years old. I described how we're going to move. I would like to point out that the procedures are very important for the speedy treatment and start-up of projects. I would, however, like to express my personal complaint that none of Parliament's wings have voted for the provision which I described before, which manages to shorten the procedures in the forty-five days and I hope that the programming contracts will have been completed by 30 November - so that after the programming contracts by mid-December we can be relatively prepared to start work. No wing of Parliament, however, other than the government majority did not vote for this provision. Then how do we expect antimilitary works to be done by magic? We are going to have a 5 million-dollar competition - why do you realize that these flooding projects are high, not some thousand euros - we are going to have millions of contests, international competitions, we are going to have two years to have a contractor? I really want to say it's a big deal. We want cooperation, not rivalry, so that people do not drown, that property is not lost. We're in a process of speeding up without a precedent. That is at least what I understand with the experience I have on all these issues, particularly on the budgetary side. Now, about the subject you're talking about at the Falitic bay, it's actually a very difficult subject. The process of completing the projects from the CTB to about Florisvo had been delayed, and this was largely due to the company's inability to proceed on the grounds that we all know about the implementation of the contract. There were long delays. These delays have led us to put pressure on the region as much as possible. The initial timetable was, at some point in the autumn, that the implementation of these projects has reached the highest level. There are still delays and we are pushing in this direction and the region and the contractor to move as fast as possible. But I want you to remember that for over a year or so these construction sites had been left without any work. We will monitor it very closely, because it concerns all the absorption, especially for the municipalities of Kalithea and Moschatos. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Pecha. We continue with the first 114/29-10-2021 current question of the first cycle of SYRIZA's MP Halkidiki - a Progressive Alliance Mr Malamas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Governance of the olive growers of Halkidiki and unjustified obstruction for their integration into the 'Spring 2021' programme. Mrs Malama, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the olive growers of Halkidiki have been waiting for this debate for too long to finally hear some truths if they are told. For the last four months, you, too, share as the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as well as the administration of the ELGA, promises to integrate Halkidiki olive into the program "Spring 2021". I will read to you what you told the farmers in July. On 30 July 2021 Mr Spilios Levanos, Minister of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said: "They may receive compensation against the legislation in force, as well as advance payments of up to 40% of the estimated compensation, which have been damaged in the crops which were pre-anthic stage, which are part of the special programme of state financial aid for Spring 2021, dated 15-2-2021 to 20-4-2021, which - says - is to be approved by the European Commission". I am tabling this document in the Minutes. It was also our report several months ago. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same wavelengths, Mr. Andreas Lykourenzos, President of ELGA, says in a document on September 8, 2021, on behalf of the farmers of Halkidiki, that they will be compensated. I read it to you: 'Their crops which were at a pre-anthic stage in the special programme of state aid for 'Spring 2021', with the date of 15-2-2021 to 20-4-2021 and which will be submitted for approval...' - says - 'to the European Commission'. I am tabling this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But then despite the assurances and the Minister and the President of the ELGA served a spectacular asshole. Mr Stylis said in particular that no dossier has been submitted to the European Union, because the European Commission has cut this request for the countries of the south at the time. In the same pattern, and Mr. Lykourenzos the other day changed his account to a meeting with MPs and confessed that the ELGA has no money to compensate the oil producers and that we are looking for funds. We are asking you directly and we are waiting for an honest answer, because the Halkidiki farmers are also seeing you, who are now disappointed. Have you submitted a dossier or anything else in the European Union for the olive nut, yes or no? If you have testified anything, we have asked you to testify to us in the House for a month and we have not taken anything. Why? If you have lied again to the farmers and you have tabled nothing, then you should now, here, explain to us why you have really fooled them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs Malama. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. George Stylos. Mr. Style, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. To put things in order, since producers from all over the country are also listening to us, growers, olive growers. They certainly hear us from Halkidiki, who are interested in Mrs Malama, since she represents the particular prefecture in Parliament. It's an advice first. We are talking about the olive tree and the compensation to be paid for the olive. What is the way in which these allowances can be paid? There are two ways. That is what the previous ministers and the Minister for Rural Development and Food have said, Mr Lebanese Cave. There is a case where the damages are covered by the ELGA Regulation, which, from there, is "current" the programme and can be compensated for, of course, those who are settled financially in ELGA and have paid their premiums. And there is the other case for producers for which compensation is not provided for in the ELGA Regulation. The first case I think is clear, it is clear and it is not discussed by anyone. In relation to the second case - the one not provided for in the ELGA regulation - said to you, and our Minister told you today, we have said it in the past, that ELGA is recording the damages, making a point, so that a procedure can proceed where we will have a valuation, and we will calculate a sum on the basis of which compensation can be granted to producers and olive growers and to Halkidiki, not only in Halkidiki. These are therefore the two separate cases compared with the producers. And I say it by looking into their eyes. So we have these two cases, these two channels. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In the second case, in order to be able to move forward as a country, we need approval from the European Commission. That's what the ministers have told you. So I say to you this: be very careful of what you say and what you put to your questions. Study them yourself, let your partners study them from your office. I would also say that you do not listen to what your other colleagues have to say, because they may not know that in depth and make a mistake, which you are adopting and repeating. So because there has been a mistake by a Member of our Parliament, who is part of your space, and you have reiterated this today, I say to you: take back the word 'corodia' that you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Malama, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have not actually answered the questions I have asked you, you have not answered the question whether you have made a request to the European Union, you have not submitted us with papers, and you cannot claim that we do not know what is happening to us. The questions were very specific. Undersecretary, the worst thing about the rural world is mockery - I repeat, mockery - and yet you all go to your constituencies and give the olive growers subsidies and compensation. The other day, you did the same thing in Phthytida, where Ministers of your Government, which is from this constituency, again set 11,000 euros for the olive nuisance. This time, EUR 40 per acre, but not full coverage of the cost of production, as you said from the outset. At the same time - for people to listen to it - the 'Spring Painting Spring 2021' programme 'is running'. By September 15, 45,000 euros were given to trees that did not land because of frost. The olive on the outside. I'll also present the official announcement from the Ministry a few days ago. You gave another EUR 14,000 indemnity for the frost of 2021. The mole out again. And I will also present to you the official announcement of the ELGA. We know very well what we are saying, Minister, and we are tabling the relevant documents. And we ask you again: why didn't you include the olive tree in the trees compensated by the 'Spring 2021' programme? Why do you not respond directly to this and make right and left statements and manoeuvres to escape your obligations towards olive producers? Answer this particular one directly, because nothing has yet been done. Why now are you saying that you have no money to pay for the fruitfulness of the olive tree while everyone else will be paid for at the full cost of their production? Give us a sincere answer to this. Why are you throwing the ball in Europe while you are not making any move, as it turns out - why have you not submitted any papers - to ask for money from there? Give us the negative response from the European Commission, if that is the case, give us the request you have made, even what is supposed to be rejected. In answer to that, Mr Minister, and above all - and I am closing with that, Mr President - please tell us why you have been lying to the olive farmers for five months. Why don't you support this product that is the flagship of Greek agriculture? Why are you making them a ball out of a programme, putting in subsidies frames, putting money in aid, once again from an alleged financial source and another financial source? Finally, the truth is one: you have not given a single cent so far and it has been two years since the olive growers are in this problem. You have not given a penny, and even today you are calling on the supposed funding, aid and alleged compensation for the frost and who knows what else. What we want is for you to tell the truth. You must admit that this was a lie in the end and you must apologise for this administrative incompetence towards the rural world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u119	The Minister has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I have asked my fellow Member to withdraw some of the words she has said, but she has come back by giving the government a lie. He forgot that an answer from what he referred to is my own, personal. And I'm here, and I can support it and defend it. So, for the second time, I ask her to take back the mockery because they do not apply and also to take back the lies, which still do not apply. But I stop learning, because it is not within my own obligations to show her what is true and what is actually there. In relation to the European Union and to the dossier - I said this here in the House - I asked the Member of Parliament who belongs to your party to bring us a dossier from another country, if he knows that he has been filed. Nothing's heard yet. So I say this in public too, and I challenge another dossier from another country if there is a deposit in the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u121	...(not heard) We're talking about ours, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u122	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u123	The 'approved' is in second phase of time. I can explain to you this: any aid granted to producers will have the approval of the European Commission, because otherwise it will be an illegal payment. We don't do that. And it will never be done by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis nor by the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food in this day. That's clear. So we will have approval from the European Commission. As far as the file is concerned, look, ask, and bring us in. So we're talking about approval for state financial aid. We told you this: With Article 209 of Law No 4820/2021 with Amendment 'Pagogatos, Spring 2021', our Government legislated here in the Greek Parliament and an amendment was passed by the Greek Parliament which we can give producers money for their losses and provide an advance of 40%. You yourself said that we have so far given 45 million and then another 59 million as advances to the producers in the regions affected by the 'Feed, Spring 2021'. That is in accordance with your own words and I adopt them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u124	For the olive, Mr. Undersecretary!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u125	I'll tell you. And I say that we gave some 60 million of the producers affected by "Pacetos, Spring 2021", which concerns the areas of Larissa Halkidiki, Pella, Imathia and other areas in the country. But since we are talking about olive oil, and we want to answer the olive growers throughout the country, I tell you this and take very good care of me and do not interrupt me, because parliamentary control does not give you that possibility. In the area of table olive variety Kalamata, according to the number number - please write -1338/31/23/51/6.11.2020, FEB B' 4937 joint decision of the Ministers for Economic and Rural Development and Food and an aid amount of EUR 13,163 000 was provided for the aid of a hundred and nine thousand hectares throughout the country corresponding to over fifteen thousand producers in the country. I'm on my way to the olive tree. Secondly - we said the first - in the table olive sector, other categories: according to number one. - Please note this too -51/12608/13-5-2021 (FTEB 2 2021) a joint Ministerial Decision by the Ministers for Economic and Rural Development and Food has been provided for the amount of EUR 9,412.270 for the aid of a hundred and thirty-four thousand four hundred sixty-sixty-three acres of table olives and other, given with a different code corresponding to nine thousand six hundred and twenty-three producers. So I sum up: 15 000 producers in the first phase and nine thousand six hundred in the second phase, more than twenty-five thousand producers in total in the country have been compensated for about EUR 23 000 000 for the olive tree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u126	Finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u127	You're welcome, Mr. President. It's interesting. We don't stop there. A few days ago, a joint ministerial decision was announced and signed on 29 October 2021 by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for EUR 11,125,560, which involves additional aid for the olive sector. So I sum up, and I say: 25 000 000 and another 11 000 000 000 is total - to make a discount of EUR 35 000 000, allocated in 2021 for the olive producers in the country. So I say and address the oil producers and we look them in the eye and say: The Government has shown the roadmap on which it stands alongside the producers and with which it can support and compensate them for the damages and damages that have been done. A total of 35,000 euros have been given for the olive tree. We are, however, here, following all the phenomena and the climate crisis and the extreme phenomena in the country. The producers know that. That is why we are supported by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the political leadership, and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. The third question, with number 127/1-11-2021, will now be discussed in the third round of the first question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Speaking problems from the merger of the Paediatric with the Children's Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. A month and a half ago, after nineteen months of pandemic at the Paediatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion, there have been children's pediatrics, pediatric surgery and a unit of CIVID children, i.e. three in one, which results in a reduction of at least half the available beds and two clinics, which are obviously not enough. This problem, however, has been exacerbated by the increase in hospitals after the recent opening up of schools, which even led to the hospitalization of children in the hallway. At the same time, there are serious risks of transmitting germs from co-complexing children with infections with children who travel the immediate postoperative period in the same clinic by common nursing staff. The lack of space obviously makes it more difficult to separate the immunocompromised and children in need of treatment after hospitalisation in the ITH of Children, while the need for the parent or other escort for childcare increases the conditions of compulsion of children, parents, children, child surgeons, nurses and so on in a very limited space, multiplying the possibility of intra-societal dispersion especially during our pandemic. This risk is also increased by the existence of joint medical staff for the care of COVID and non-COVID children in both the TLP and the clinic. In fact, due to the lack of a separate pediatric TPE COVID, suspected cases of children are examined in the TEP COVID of adults by the pediatrician who is inspecting the pediatric TPE. The problems in the functioning of pediatrics will deteriorate - it already seems - by leaving three specialist doctors within the next eight months. Two ESR Directors are retired and the contract ends an ancillary pediatrician, while a curator is already absent on a pregnancy leave. The difficulties in ensuring safe care for children due to the merger of the two clinics, which the Scientific Council has noted many times, have been notified to the PAGAN Management as early as May 2020, without a solution yet. Once again, the problems arise from overtime incomplete state health funding. Therefore, the health and safety of patients, as well as the free provision of quality health services, is being undermined, Minister, in the face of the attempt to save expenditure. For this reason, we ask you: What urgent actions will the Government take to immediately abolish the merger and separate the Paediatrics from PANGNE's Paediatric Clinic, restore the function of PANGNE's Paediatric and Pediatric Clinic by increasing the hospital beds, as well as an immediate announcement of the positions of permanently qualified and permanent nursing and other personnel, so that the two clinics are adequately served with a similar provision for CIVID incidents. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u130	And we thank Mr. Synergy. The Minister for Health, Mr. Ploris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u131	Mr Papoutsis, first of all there is no merger of clinical trials to which it refers. There is an adjustment, yes, of beds and internal movements, due to the particular circumstances of the pandemic. And as you well know, the pandemic brought adjustments, not only to the ESS, but also worldwide, in order that there can be savings and beds and human resources, to manage the COVID cases, which were not in place before the pandemic and are obviously much more burdened with the system. In this particular case, I would like to refer to the details, because there is no problem, as you are referring to. In 2020 they were thirty beds and had a fullness rate - in the Paediatric Clinic I am referring to -41.4% and 2021 - in the tenth month - the fullness rate was 49.7%. So there is no bed charge, while respectively in the Children's Clinic the percentages were 63% for 2020 and 72% for 2021. There is therefore no problem in beds and they are served. The officials have nineteen organic positions and are serving in them seventeen at the moment. In addition, with reference to the notices you refer to, in the 2019 SAPA Notice, it was a 30-point notice for a number of branches and specialties for the University General Hospital of Heraklion - the process has been completed and the successful ones have been recruited. In the 2020 notice, twenty-two positions were foreseen, the application control process is in progress and once the recruitments are completed, the posts are committed. A request was approved to fill five hundred and twenty more regular staff posts from which the nineteen are planned to cover the posts in PANGNE and the recruitment process of the successful ones is also expected and to recruit the nine hundred ten other staff who are the notice coming out in 2021, as well as the four thousand nursing staff who are also going out in 2021 and, respectively, have made specific forecasts of PANGNE. Therefore, on the basis of your question, we are not talking about a merger, there is really an adjustment of beds, as I described to you because of the pandemic, but as you can see from the full details, neither the Paediatric nor the Paediatric Clinic. I refer to the facts which I have mentioned and which show that those applications that have been made, covered and, at the same time, there is the procedure for the other posts to be covered by the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u133	Minister, when we have a conversation, we are going to have a real conversation, we are not going to play with words. What do you mean, adjustment? No more permanent than the temporary! It's not Yannis, it's Yannakis. So, I'm adjusting something, I've been keeping it all over for months, so what does that mean? Does it not mean a merger or a possible merger with the boulder after a while? Let me tell you. What has been done is three merged into one, because we are talking about Paediatric, Paediatric and CIVID unit. It's three, not one! There is no agreement, first of all, to the Scientific Council. There is no assent from the Director of the Paediatric Clinical. You know that? I suppose you know, because there are decisions on them, there are letters. On the contrary, they both scientifically substantiate the need for immediate performance of the space in the Paediatric Clinic. The 7th RCF was committed to temporary coexistence of Paediatric and Paediatric Surgery and COVID unit of children. But when it's nineteen to twenty months now, is this story not proving what I'm saying to you, nor is it more permanent? Invite both you and Mrs Borbudakis, the commander of the 7th U.S., to justify the two clinics' intensification, that the Paediatric Clinic has a full degree of completeness of about 40%. So, "he picks up", so to say, the transfer of the Paediatric Surgery and the COVID unit. And what does that mean? Does it mean that hospitals should function on hotel terms? What are hospitals, hotels? Is that the criterion? You also say that the Paediatrics will return to the pre-COVID status if staff arrive. But you should have hired a staff already. Here you do not hire, here on the pretext of invaders and inhibitors you have thrown out a number of thousands of sanitaries, doctors and nurses. Whoever doesn't want to ferment, then, months and years is sifting. This is an anti-scientific and dangerous decision of the 7th HR, which you are defending today, because it is obviously a government mandate. Are you serving the direction of mergers of clinics in the name of cost-benefit to serve the new ESS and the so-called European conquered, a time-consuming objective of the European Union with damaged who? The patients, the health workers, the people as a whole. This is the new ESS and the European acquis or establishment, say it as you like: collapsing clinics, deliberately ignoring that the operation of a hospital is in direct connection with the level of its staff, a self-management system that will be accountable to its profits and losses. However, the reduction in units means less available beds, as the government does, and in the field of education. He's engaging in departments and merges schools, so what does that mean? Fewer teachers. It means public units operating as a health business that will sell services to patients - customers and insurance funds to ensure their operation. It means differentiating between health-care facilities in terms of the development of parts and services depending on the level of revenue from the sale of their work. It means more flexible working relationships. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the JRC - and I will close with that, Mr President - health is a social asset and not a commodity. It does not move to cost-benefit logic, it does not move to the logic of the completeness of the hotels and we start from a logic that says that it is the state's duty to ensure free, complete and uninterrupted medical care and hospitality to everyone, with full state funding of all public health systems. Strengthen beds, clinics with massive recruitment of permanent staff. That's what we're asking. In conclusion, I would like to say this: will you proceed to the immediate abolition of the merger and when? Timetable. You should tell us a certain timeframe. And to restore the function of Paediatric and Paediatric Clinic with an increase in hospital beds. They are two - three very specific questions. Answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u134	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u135	Your Honor, I've responded with evidence. And in your dentext you mentioned and there is indeed no operational problem, because the completeness is complete that does not press that function. The redistribution of beds - which is not a game of words, the merger would mean that a process is completed - it is a redistribution precisely because of the pandemic. And as long as the pandemic lasts there will be, and has been, with the agreement of the Committee on Infections and the Hospital Crisis Management Team. So it was a direction that had to be done for the pandemic. Neither the Paediatric nor the Paediatric Clinic have been pressed. I have given you concrete details of the recruitments that have been made and the subsequent recruitments that will take place. Mr President, as I am in the National Representation, and I believe that through this Delegation we should respond to the inaccuracies that are generally mentioned in figures and figures, today the Chief of Staff of the Representation visited Thessaloniki's Hippocrates Hospital. And we really have the unprecedented fact that while visiting the Hippocrates Hospital, he made statements about the Papanikolaou Hospital. The numbers are ruthless, and the Chief of Police has to know them. The Hippocrates, which he visited, had eight IF beds. With the Prime Minister of Alexis Tsipras, the beds of the "Hippokratio" were eight. Today he visited a hospital after an on-call, which, after on-call, each hospital is stricken and the staff themselves are stricken. But he saw thirty ITH beds with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and eight MFF beds. So the eight beds Mr. Tsipras left have made 30 eight beds the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. For "Papanikolaou", which former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras could visit to avoid telling inaccuracies that give him and see the patients in beds who say they don't work at the "Papanikolaou" Hospital, Mr. Tsipras had 20 beds. And today if we go to the "Papanikolaou" Hospital, it's forty-six beds of ITH. And there are no eighteen IF beds lying to Mr. Tsipras that they don't work today and there are pictures. But we're not in the National Representation here to get into this confrontation. Nine of our fellow citizens are hospitalized in these beds they're supposed not working. Let him know, Mr. Tsipras. And I challenge him now to go up on the "Papanikolaou". Either download the post which is false or go see and visit the people who are in these beds. The difference is that these beds are for ‘clean’ events right now on the basis of the design they exist, not for COVID incidents. So they can't have 100% completeness, because you can't put COVID incidents over there where they're "clean" incidents. And people have already risen from Athens too in order to strengthen the staff who are there. But in the 20 beds of "Papanikolaou" we have forty-six and eight "Hippokratio" we have thirty and eight MAFs. And they can't tell Mr. Tsipras and write inaccurate Twitter and make statements. What's he gonna say to those patients who are treated in beds that Mr. Tsipras says are not working? They're working. Nine have been covered, nine have not been covered and there is staff. It is for "clean" design-based incidents. Adjustments can be made, COVID incidents can be entered and 'clean' incidents transferred elsewhere. And while there's a battle of all medical and nursing staff, all that the Chief of Staff is doing is visiting the hospitals after the papers. To say what after the paper? What if there was a fight between doctors and nurses the day before? Obviously. And before the pandemic after the on-call, there's a battle. And what does that mean to these people? And how did he look at them when he had half the ITH beds and the Hippocratic? And why did he refer to a hospital that didn't go to visit? We are therefore referring to our Greek fellow citizen who will need the Clinic ITH, I wish Mr Tsipras had this race with the visits, made him to convince our fellow citizens to be vaccinated to protect themselves and not to be found in a Clin ITH. However, the headship of the Ministry of Health along with doctors and nurses will do what is human possible - and do so - so that at this time, having more than doubled the IF beds than the ones we received from the SYRIZA government, all our Greek fellow citizens will have a IF bed, all have the treatment they receive, even when they have made a choice not to be vaccinated. At some point the former Prime Minister who forty and fifty people without a pandemic must do his self-criticism was waiting for IF beds. This is about ITH beds that Mr. Tsipras has not added. It must make this self-criticism and when visiting hospitals have the courage to say how many beds ICUs we had in 2019 and how many beds ICUs we have today. Because Mr Tsipras' populism has overcome himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u136	We move on to the third with No 128/1-11-2021 topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The pollution from illegal landfill and the need to restore and depollution the position of Magulas in Aspropyrgos". Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question raises two serious and directly related issues. One is the problem of integrated waste management, which should be in the interests of people's needs and which is not there, and the other is the question of the degradation of the region of Triasia and the whole of West Attica, which has been burdening this problem for decades now, and the people of the region have been paying for it, even by burdening their health. The incident described by the question is the result of this timeless policy and this timeless deterioration: An uncontrolled illegal landfill that burns from summer to today, despite repeated complaints from residents and other mass actors in the region and despite the reports from the Environmental Directorate of the Regional Unit of Western Attica, which informed the authorities - police, firefighting, Inspectors, Decentralised Administration and others - for this serious problem with two documents marked "Excellent Emergency" and dated 27 August and 27 September. And not just were they updating on this issue twice, but the competent measuring and hydro-economy control department that carried out the autopsy, pointed out that dangerous gases are emitted that represent a direct environmental risk. Two months after the last document on 27 September, some emblems were made for the eyes of the world, but the problem remains. The landfill is still burning and toxic pollutants are still emitted. It is truly outrageous that the competent authorities remain inactive in relation to such a crime, because it is a crime and it is not the only one. There are other cases of this kind in the area. There are uncontrolled landfills. There are every three and a few recycling factories that ignite. We've lost count lately from such factories. There are plots rented to companies to dispose of waste, and of course there is the Gender CYTA recently passed in the third phase, in the 3rd KITTA, perpetuating this unacceptable environmental and health crime, with the well-known decision taken by the Joint New Democracy and SYRIZA at the Regional Council of Attica. The question, therefore, is what measures the government will take to stop pollution and illegal landfill in the position of Magulas Whitewick, as well as what measures it will take to restore and decontamination this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too. In Mr Gioka's question, as well as in the two following questions, Mr Alexiadis and Mr Kourublis, the Secretary-General for Environment and Energy will answer Mr George Amyras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, Mr Gioka, you have raised serious questions and I would agree entirely with you, especially at the beginning, to introducing your question when you said that for too many years there has been no comprehensive waste management policy in that country - and, secondly, that the right rehabilitation of areas, which, either one way or another, had been burdened by the waste, either with uncontrolled illegal land or with legal rehabilitation, which, however, left a hole in the environmental balance of each region. I fully agree with this and tell you that, of course, there has never been an integrated environmental policy for many years either because of bureaucracy or because of a lack of government, ministers and regional administrations, local government bodies. We, then, first of all, recognise and know that any illegal landfill is a huge wound to the environment and to the public health of the inhabitants. That is why this is not without us. For decades of time they have found land, they have gone to bail, throw away waste with very bad results in protecting and restoring any ecosystem, if it has been affected. Furthermore, the placement of modern waste treatment plants was not progressing. We, however, have other kinds of priorities. Our priorities are for these units to go ahead. Only by speaking of Attica, for example, have the competitions on the Race, the Schisto and the Graphics started. And, of course, they will lock and already lock on any illegal landfill of urban settlements or in areas of the wider nature, are not protected and integrated into the NATURA 2000 network. Some will stop making black money using these illegal activities, putting citizens' health at risk. This illegal landfill has been employed by the Ministry of the Environment and the relevant agencies and sometimes in the recent past and by the decentralised administration and the district and municipality. So this year, in July, there was a fire in this illegal dump, which had waste and a ball. The fire suppression, fortunately, was fast and full of thanks, of course, to the efforts of the Fire Service and with the assistance of the Attica Region. Since then, periodically on this point, yes, smoke and gas from holes have been released in the straddling of the embroidery and I will agree with you that not only must pollution be stopped, but we must also get to restoration before all else. I'm going to give a lot of detail to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you too, Minister. Now Mr. Giokas has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u141	Minister, because people are watching us from the region which is concerned and not to speculate on the issue of waste management policy, we say that the same policy has been pursued to date. No change. But we should go to that particular one. Is there an answer to how this burning dump came about? Is there any response why has it not stopped for three months to burn despite repeated complaints by residents and despite the reports by the competent environmental service? Is there any answer why the area has not yet been restored and decontaminated? And most importantly - and most importantly - you have some response to these ongoing incidents that occur every little and little in the West Attica region, Aspropyrgos, Elefsina, Mandra, Race etc.Huh? Because here we are not talking about some individual incidents. Mr. President knows well. I told you before. The situation is general. Uncontrolled landfills, recycling plants that suddenly shine every three to a bit, land that is rented to companies that deposit waste. And, because you're saying you're going to put order, all this is done if not with the support, at least with the tolerance of the state authorities. Just to tell you this, to understand the scale of the problem. Four years after the flood in Mandra - the next week is to be completed exactly four years after the flood in Mandra - the mud gathered remains still parked in the quarry "TITAN". And of course it's not just mud. In the mud there are various other hazardous materials and waste. So, all that that creates this suffocating situation to the inhabitants of the Egyptian Prime Minister, Elefsina, more than the West Attica, is there any response? We say that the question is rhetorical, because it is your act and your policy and your own and previous governments which are ultimately responsible for the fact that there is so far no integrated waste management plan for the benefit of people's needs rather than the contractors and, of course, for the continuing downgrading of an entire area that has become the backyard of Athens. Because the inhabitants of this region, apart from the situation and the anarchy with industrial units which create the risk of an industrial accident, in addition to the various shortcomings in anti-military and anti-nuclear armour, in addition to the shortcomings in health structures, since we are still in the midst of a pandemic which is even refreshing, in addition to all that they have to deal with the 'carcina' of the legal and illegal landfills. And that's not our appreciation, it's official evidence of an epidemiological study that's seen the light of publicity. That is why we want an answer to these issues so that this situation can be stopped and that the inhabitants of the region can actually live in a human environment with modern rights, with modern infrastructure and not in a dump and literally and transport. You - and I close with it - all you have done as a government was to make a picture of HYTAF, the inactive first HYTAD, supposedly with the energy park and the Prime Minister, supposedly to create the illusion that the world is over with the HYTAD, and already a third HYTAD in the Gender is being created today, in violation of all environmental legislation, even of the fierce environmental legislation that exists today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u142	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with you, Mr Colleague, the last thing you say. First of all, environmental legislation in Greece is one of the strictest international ones. It is outweighed by the Union. If you disagree on that, I don't know, maybe you should make a comparison.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u144	We do not admire Euro-Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u145	What can I tell you? In the European Union we are also having national legislation much more stringent than the Union. But especially for the Municipality of Phyllis, you are mainly wrong with the Municipality of Phyllis. These five hundred acres of the former landfill will not just greenen up, not just become sports, culture, ordinary civil activity, but will also give free electricity to the inhabitants. That's what I imagine you'll think of as positive. I cannot understand and can't believe that you, a man aware of this area - there you are obviously elected -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u147	You don't? Next door, anyway. So I can't believe you're going to say no to getting electricity free for their homes by the residents of the Municipality of Phyllis. And they deserve congratulations to the mayor who has initiated the process. You also asked about the other uncontrolled landfills that existed or still exist in the Triumph. Of course, there have also been administrative fines imposed and the prosecutor has been sent to many and various. Of course the police have done their job and the Ministry of the Environment has also, of course, been mobilised and the region and the decentralised administration. It is not right to take a straight line and say that nothing has ever happened, no, and there is the evidence of what I'm saying to you. There were therefore administrative sanctions, which, of course, I cannot give you the names, but I can in second time submit to you, without showing the names and names, the elements of what I am telling you now, namely the administrative sanctions in 2020 with fines from the Environmental and Climate Change Directorate of the Attica for illegal waste disposal, environmental degradation and a risk of pollution. Usually a ball was made of demolitions and constructions. These fines have not only been imposed on the responsible, but have also been notified to the Athens Primary Prosecutors' Office for examining violations of the Criminal Code, that is to say, to the criminal court. In this particular case, I have to tell you that in Magula, for this uncontrolled dump, which periodically makes smoke out of the smuggling of bags and waste deposits, the Ministry of the Environment also informed the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Deputy Prosecutor of the Environment and notified all the information to the Prosecutors' Prosecutors of Athens. We have also sent a document and we are in constant contact with the police department in the area and with the fire department, so that the fire department will have supervision and mind of any underground refreshment, and the police will not go with patrols to carry out regular checks, so that we do not have a new report. I come to the other elements I wanted to tell you. The police of the Department of Environmental Protection of the Hellenic Police in early September carried out checks, collected evidence, produced the file, the one we sent to both judicial authorities and the public prosecutors, finding that a large amount of waste had been discharged to an extent of eighteen to twenty acres. We have received this information, sent it to the other departments, as I said, region, decentralised administration, fire department, police station, Ice Bay Attorney's office, and asked each of them to do, in the place where they belong, their work and to carry out their responsibility, so that the disposal of any new waste may be stopped, and that it can be restored as soon as possible. Here we also come to the jungle, how it will be restored and from whom it will be done. We have therefore directed directly, in writing, and orally, and our services have held teleconferencing with the relevant services, namely the Directorate for Environmental and Spatial Policy of the Decentralised Administration of Attica and the Regional Committee for the Restoration of Attica, in order to implement the provisions of Presidential Decree 148/2009 on Environmental Responsibility and, at the same time, to discuss the financing of the rehabilitation of the region. So I want to say that we take as the Ministry of the Environment - and this is our role - and the measures, and we mobilise the prosecution authorities, the prosecutors, and the other players at the table and, as I said, there are also the resources that we will draw from the Green Fund, either from the Recovery Fund or from other financial instruments, so that these old sins of uncontrolled landfills can be stopped definitively and move on to restoration. I would like to say to you that, above all, the Environmental Policy Directorate of the Decentralised Administration is responsible, as is the Region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u148	We continue with the fifth under the number 117/29-10-2021 topical question by MPs II Piraeus - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Proclamation as a preserved monument of PPC's factory in Keracini". Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the purpose of this timely question is to highlight the need for the historic, emblematic site of the PPC plant in Keratsini, which has been - fortunately for years now, because it has polluted the region too much - is not working. So it is necessary that this space should be maintained and declared as a preserved monument and I think that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, which is here, today, to answer another timely question, all these actions must be taken for this emblematic complex of industrial buildings, which, together with its equipment, is an ideal place to have in Greece an industrial park in a historic location. I would stress that it is good to honor historical events. The President of history is more special to me and many of us, but I would remind him, because of the area where I grew up, that it is me and my family, that it is a historic place where battles were fought not to destroy the PPC plant with the troops of ELAS against the Nazi German troops and it is one of the areas where the Nazi German troops were defeated and captured. It will therefore be a historic place in which Greek patriots gave their lives in order not to be destroyed, now that it is no longer used properly as a PPC plant, to be destroyed for economic reasons or for any other reason. So you have an historic political opportunity to give the neighbourhoods of Piraeus who have been afflicted with the possibility of highlighting and maintaining this monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Minister, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, my dear Mr Alexiadis, the case of PPC's old plant in Keracini is a wonderful opportunity, as you have already done, to sit civilized and look really in the future to discuss the prospects for this area and these facilities. In my view, it must be a field of consensus of all parties in the future of this region. Let's see how we change its character, how we take a breath in the heavy environmental landscape and also make it a place for Keratsini, especially at a time when PPC enters a new era, which we saw has raised too much money without burdening any taxpayer, which money will all go to liberation and investment in RES, renewable energy sources. Fortunately, PPC is no longer on the verge of bankruptcy, as it arrived until two and a half years ago. Culture, therefore, the emergence of our cultural heritage and history in buildings, monuments, regions are key points of our environmental agenda and not just. Give us two clues. PPC's steam power plant in Keratsini began to generate electricity in 1928 and since it operated with natural gas mainly, as a backup unit, ceased its operation in 2012. The building complex of Agios Georgios is one of the most representative examples of industrial architecture and, indeed, it is distinguished by innovations of its time, which exist in corresponding power plants in Great Britain. I just want to make a first print, we all have the same base. Today the buildings have been largely maintained and to their greatest extent in terms of their morphological elements. There's damage to some, mostly on the roofs. And of course, I agree with you. Of course, it became the Battle of Electricity there, when the Greek patriots pushed off the Nazis, who wanted to destroy the station just before they left and shortly before liberation. Now what do we have here? The Municipality of Keratini, as I imagine you are well aware, proposes the restoration, maintenance and restoring of all the buildings, the creation of technological infrastructures for a training centre, exhibition area, open space and refreshment. According to the information we have in the Ministry of the Environment, on September 22, 2020, the Municipality of Keratsini - Drapetsonas submitted to the Ministry of Culture and Sport a request for designation as a new monument of the Atmospheric Station of Agios Georgios, with a summary issue attached to its historical development. In order to evaluate and assess whether or not this complex is subject to Law 3028/2002 for the protection of the antiquities and cultural heritage, the responsible Office of Modern Monuments and Technical Works is in constant contact with the Municipality of Keratini and Drapetsonas and with PPC, in order to obtain the necessary data. In my dentistry I will also tell you what PPC says, which is of great interest to us, what the municipality is asking for and how the Ministry of Culture will handle the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u152	Mr Alexiadis now has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u153	I am pleased with your first speech, Minister, and I take the lead as a positive acceptance of the request for the declaration as a preserved monument. Because we need to speak clearly, whether we preach it as a preserved monument, or we will demolish it. It can't work like a factory again. So I welcome what you said positively. If there's anything different, make it clear in your second-guess. As far as this issue is concerned, I will submit to the Minutes - probably not in the official files, but it is important to have a protocol for the cooperation of Ministries with the Municipality of Keratini on this matter since July 1996, a decision by the Municipality of Keratini on whether to approve or not to declare a preserved monument, as well as documentation for the proclamation of a preserved monument. I will submit the relevant documents in the Minutes so that there can be a complete picture now. I fully agree with the need for the consensus area. I was a little confused later, of course, because you did on this occasion an analysis of PPC's finances. But to agree on that, too. Since PPC, Minister, is in such a good economic situation, it cannot be expected that an area which has affected the health of the inhabitants of an area that has also been imposed on other activities, such as the area of the ship repair area, such as the Psittalia area, such as the landfill area which has been closed and we will not let it reopen again in one form or another. So PPC cannot now invoke financial problems or say anything else. Because invoking PPC financial problems means that PPC will sell the space. There's no other explanation. So now that PPC's finances are upright, as you have explained to us, PPC must move on to what the cooperation protocols define and the ministries have committed themselves, that is, the Greek State towards the municipality and the inhabitants of the region on this issue. So, Minister, as I do when I am asked "what you remember about what you did to the Ministry of Finance", I am proud to recall my contribution to the concession of the Caesar Sniper to the municipality, the concession of the coastal front to the self-government, my contribution to the Drapetson fertilisers and a number of such acts that remain in history, I ask you to link your name to such an important step that a historic, industrial place can be declared as a preserved monument. To be a place where we will all be proud and celebrate every year the place where the battle was taken and the Greek patriots did not let the factory be destroyed, as their nazis and local partners planned - because we also had such a unfortunately in the Piraeus area - we did not let it be destroyed, saved the factory and gave much to the country. So I call for a clear decision and for us to be sure we will consent to anything that is positive for the region. And be sure that we will react very forcefully, as we know in Piraeus from struggles, to anything negative for the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. The Minister now has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Alexiadis, as I said, the Office of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of the Ministry of Culture received the request of the Municipality of Drapetsonas - Keratini on 22 September 2020 for the designation as a newer monument of the facilities of Agios Georgios Agios Georgios. So what did this service do? He's talking to both sides. Let's call them sides. And with the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas, as well as with PPC, in order to collect the necessary information that will lead this service to draw up the documentation report. Already on June 18, 2021, a few months ago, the Office of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of the Ministry of Culture requested documents and evidence from PPC's archive to document the historical development and importance of the station for the wider region, not only for this point. Two meetings of this service were held with representatives of PPC, with engineers of PPC and a licensed study office so that the Ministry knew what PPC has in mind as the owner of the site. PPC has informed about the intentions of drawing up a broader utilization plan for the installations of Keratsini. From then on in July this year again, the Office of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of the Ministry of Culture requested the assistance of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas. He also asked for evidence from them. And their own perspective. He also asked PPC to be able to access stairways to make autopsies. Big space and a lot of different buildings. We contacted PPC's administration, as the Ministry of the Environment, and we asked to see what their plan is, what they're going to do. What their intentions are. So we have been told that they are preparing and in a short time they will have completed an overall study of their facilities and their future. In particular, this study has informed us that it will take into account the particular importance of the area from a historical and cultural point of view, the real environmental and spatial data and the development prospects of the property and the wider region. What does PPC say in the proposal of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas? It argues that it is fragmentary and that the municipality's proposal does not consistently contain critical factors such as the new sustainable uses and functions of the old industrial establishments, the way in which the actions are launched and exploited, and some other elements that PPC considers important. PPC's administration has announced to us that its premeditated project, its implementation - after completion - is considered and approved for the integrated study - and its own projects are more important than the proposal of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas. It has underlined that it will certainly exploit itself in a sustainable, sustainable, green way and full respect for the history of space, culture and the environment, its assets. We had contacted PPC's administration to come and answer you to know what both sides say. At the beginning of the new year, in a few months' time, it will have completed the premeditation that leads to the study. So all actors, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment, the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas and of course PPC will appreciate the ideas and suggestions of the municipality. I therefore hope that it will be understood, Mr Alexiadis, that in the near future we will have a clear scope for discussion: how does PPC see the use of facilities with a wider view, but what is the proposal of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas, how these two will be bridged, how these two will be exploited, so that we can have the spirit of a new developmental green and sustainable image and use of this property. After this substantial consultation, then, in which, of course, you too are invited to participate, it will only be introduced for consideration at the Central Council of New Monuments to see what designation this place will be taken, not just of Keratini, but of the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, too. I too would like to stress that I consider the presence of the Minister of Culture to be a positive coincidence in this nice dialogue between Alexiadis and the Minister of State, and that is how I treat it as a point of positive development. Well, now we will discuss the thirteenth third with number 141/1-11-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The government of many reasons contributes to an ongoing environmental and social crime." Mr Kurublis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Hellenism during the summer experienced dramatic moments and was born a very long question following the dramatic events that we experienced and the period of history in Matti. After two and a half years the government did not learn or show that it was able to understand what had to be done. This has resulted in fires which are destructive in scope and intensity. The government, too, did not demonstrate either the ability to prevent, but the revival was not able to do anything. So there have been very great disasters. And I come in the case of Evia. Minister, it is a wonder that the Prime Minister has not visited this region. Why? It is an issue that concerns, while it has gone to other regions - we need to recognise it. The second major issue that arises, Minister, is that after three months of these fires, in most regions, no decisively targeted interventions have been made - targeted! I hear complaints, Minister, that the story of the logs has moved to a certain extent, but it is being made at the ends of the roads, so that something is being done and not at critical, difficult and difficult points, which are necessary for them to actually be able to play a retaliatory role. And on this question, I would like you to tell me who is supervising? Do you have a picture? Does the Ministry really have a real picture? Is there any mechanism that supervises us to be sure what exactly is going on? There is also another issue and I will say it briefly, Mr President. These are the studies submitted by the municipalities, which have still not been financed. Third case is what's going on with the weather stations. There were protests that there was a shortage of meteorological stations in the area. I wanted to know about that, too, if there's been anything more. Minister, you were committed - as apart from the cooperatives involved in this, there is another category of cooperatives, the forced ones, who could not take part in this procedure - that the procedure would have been amended so that they too could take part. Now, that is, as far as I am concerned, the cooperatives involved are of Komotini, Xanthi and the Grevenes, if I'm not mistaken. These cooperatives, however, do not recruit residents from the projects, because they entrust contractors who are carrying out these projects and who are complaining that while measure 4,8 EUR to around EUR 5 is being paid, the amount attributed to the employees is substitutable and is convincingly argued that there are over-profits from these circles. I would like to add something which, Minister, I am also shaking to the idea that it may happen, but I am obliged as a Member to tell you - I do not denounce you, I do not denounce the government, I want you to investigate it, because it concerns us all - it is the question of fires and floods. It is a matter that concerns us all, the whole political system. They therefore contain information that some of these famous contractors - almost every year they themselves take over these works with all governments - may also be involved in the fires. And it's really amazing. I heard. I don't know if it's true, but justice should look into it, because we're not an angel society. That is not all we are, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Only the Minister did not hear and ask for clarification, because you referred to some studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u159	What studies are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u160	For municipal studies. I have information that the municipalities have submitted some studies and I was asking if these studies...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u161	It's understood. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u162	Dear Mr Kurubli, I would agree with you that it is all about the issue of the armouring of the Evia region from weather phenomena and especially extremes. I just got back from northern Evia. I came right back. The Minister, Costas Screkas, is still in Evia. We went to seven o'clock in the morning. I'm back now to answer your questions. The Minister, Mr. Screkas, remains there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u163	I didn't question you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u164	Not to God! So I will tell you what we have seen in practice. We have seen two things that are really shocking. The first is that nature returns rapidly. We have gone to too many slopes, where the studs have already been made, the anti-corrosions have become - and I will give you specific information - and we have seen infinite little pine trees, cloaks, brass sprouts. We've seen black soils. We've been with Mr. Screka too many times. We go over and over and over and over, we meet not only, of course, with the mayors, with the local authorities, with the forest cooperatives, we go and walk along the slopes with the masters to see the quality of the works. That's our job, our obligation is to do it, and that's what we're doing. The first, then, is that nature returns too quickly and fills us with joy. The second is that the forest cooperatives, with the help of other forest cooperatives from the rest of Greece, did not reach the local forest cooperatives to cover all anti-corrosion works for all regions, did an excellent job, did an amazing job. I'm giving you some clues. So, how have the anti-corrosion works proceeded in northern Evia? In the region of Lakes and Mandudi, over 53% have been completed, and in Satisa they come in second year, but also there at a rapid pace, it is enough that weather conditions allow the foresters to continue working, primarily the workers and the members of the forest cooperatives in Evia. By the end of December, 15 December we set the final date, the anti-corrosion works for the Lake area and the Lake basins are completed in very few weeks later in Istia. The specific figures, today we are talking about, are as follows: up to five hundred kilometres of logs have already been built. Crowds have already been built, over ten thousand square meters. Weaving is a very special way of restoring soils, however, in specific gradients. We've got over thirteen miles of branch cloth. We've got like walls over fifteen miles [15 km]. And the sandy people, in an area in the lake basin, were placed rather after a fire in 2016 and there is where you are unfortunately going - if you are going, you will see that we, I mean the Greek state has financed and built the sandy forests - you will see that the mountain is naked. There, unfortunately, is no physical regeneration. It did not work because it was burned twice in the last five, six years. The seed couldn't be kept. The pine cones only for three years give seed. And so that's where we're going to enter with artificial reafforestation. But I want to continue and answer what you have said. No contractor, Mr Kurubli, or subcontractor is currently not in Evia working on anti-corrosions. I'm emphatic about that. They work exclusively for forest cooperatives. In total, we have thirty three forest cooperatives from all over Greece and six hundred people, members of forest cooperatives, who do an excellent, amazing job. You said we brought forest cooperatives from the rest of Greece. Yes, in agreement with the forest cooperatives of Evia, because they did not have time. There are few forest cooperatives in Evia. We wanted too many hands instantly. And here, of course, it regrets me that, Mr Kurubli - not for you personally, but for your party - you have not voted for the provision that we have brought here and made it possible - and we have done so - to direct commissions from the Greek state to the forest cooperatives in the affected areas, to take the jobs directly, because they are the ones who know better than anyone else and because we wanted to financially strengthen these people, who have lost a huge resource for their lives, the forest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u165	You can continue in your dentistry, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u166	Good, Mr President, because I still have a lot to say. If I may just do that, Mr President. In order not to think that we ourselves say "what a fine and great job the forest cooperatives of Evia and the rest of Greece in Evia" have done, I must inform you about this. We welcomed a few days ago in Evia - and not only in Evia, but also in other areas of Greece that had burned their forest ecosystems - the Hot Land Intervention Team of the United States Humanitarian Aid Office. They came with their own experts, Mr President, they went through too many areas, photographed, counted, discussed with the scientists who are there. You asked me whose supervision the works were being conducted in northern Evia. It is done by supervising both forests and scientists, with these serious people, who have really overcome themselves and their powers to be there. In fact, I'll tell you one omission. The ruler of the Lake, an excellent man, while he was in retirement now, because exactly the locals love him and trust him, "needed" - I would say he was willing - to extend his working time and not to retire, which he was very happy to expect. The Americans of the United States of America Cadmium Intervention Group congratulated both the forest services and the forest workers of northern Euboea. And you know what gave them a special impression? That we don't use hard, heavy machines nor in wheels. Nothing gets into the burnt-out area as a machine. Only people come in. Teachers with horses and with great care, with their mobile tools all the work is done. I'm going to go on with my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u167	And you, Minister, but also Mr Kurublis, have more than doubled your prototypes. If you can, reduce the time of the seconds. It is important, of course, that this should be the case. Mr Kurublis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u168	I will try to help, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully, and I really didn't come in any way to report. I have come to raise issues, to make some commitments, because - I mean it and again - it is an issue that I think we all care about in this place. But there are questions, such as this: The scientific group has indicated - among them Mr Lekkas, who has written - concrete targets. Did this whole effort move in a direction like this, so we don't mourn victims and start then we all cry together? Because, we now know that weather phenomena are unpredictable, they are intense. Do you really have that picture? Are you satisfied? I see you as a man sensitive to these issues, and you and the Minister. However, as a Member, I would like to have the assurances that, in fact, the interventions are targeted. Because how many mistreats, Minister, have had public works in Greece for the past thirty years, you know that better than me. I don't cut a glauka in Athens. I also sincerely want to say, Minister, that there are two municipalities in western Athens - the Municipality of Agia Anargyra and the Municipality of Petroupolis - which have negative effects from the dump. The Prime Minister promised on a visit that there would be some compensatory. I would like to see that if you have anything to say to us, so that we do not bring you to the House again with a question. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: the new measures are affecting the focus, they are affecting categories such as hairdressing. In addition, as far as the hundred working cleaners that are permanently outside the Ministry of Development are concerned, my request would be, Mr President, for those ladies who have been working for eighteen years and are at risk of losing their jobs now, to have an understanding on the part of the government. I hope that the Prime Minister's meeting today with the representatives of the focus will find a way - as for hairdressing - because it has not been shown that they are being framed in the transmission of the virus, such as transport and other cases that we have lived in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u169	And we thank Mr. Kurubli. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Kurubli, I'll start with the last one. Measures to combat pandemic do not affect or target any professional group. On the contrary, they shield society against pandemic and coronary. In addition, I must remind the House that the Greek Government has left no one behind in this struggle and the shielding of public health, as well as financial support and professional groups and social groups and all those who had remained unprotected, weak under the mercy of pandemic. We didn't leave anyone at the mercy of pandemic. On the contrary. We're hitting the pandemic. I too, however, take this opportunity to say that, at last, I would like the Police Vice-Population Party to enter much more forcefully into the undertaking of persuasive people who are either on ideological grounds or on other grounds - such as phobia - removed from the vaccine. Only vaccination will save and only vaccination is the one that will shield both the economy and society and above all everyone's lives. Now, my dear Mr Kurubli, you have asked me whether the interventions in northern Evia are targeted or not. Of course they do. They do. First of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u171	Based on scientists' suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u172	Of course, on the basis of the scientists' proposals. Everything that is happening in Northern Evia right now - and not just in the other areas affected by fires - is done after scientific studies, which are approved by the forest service and the directorates of our Ministry. And here we are talking about hard geologists - to say it like that - hard scientists in forest science. I will report to you the six thematic areas of these studies. Overall the studies for northern Evia are eighteen and all eighteen have been completed. It's ten for the Lake area, eight for the Istia region. Inside them is the first one that started and completed in record time on September 2. We had in our hands the identification study for the burnt land in northern Evia. So this recognition study has led us to draw up, of course, a visa and approval for the remaining eighteen studies that I have told you, for which areas? For forests and forest land in accordance with the forest map, for the species of forest vegetation. We know very well - as I said, Mr Kurubli - about the one slope over the Evia Lake with boards and boards where, unfortunately, the forest will not come back. We know very well which forests have been put at risk, which are the most mountainous, such as Elati that has not been able to sprout. So we know very well. As we also know the types, they are recorded by scientists - and the characteristics of the territories, the general gradients, making a digital model of absolute accuracy. And we have recorded the hydrographic network and also, Mr Kurubli, the very important one - which undeniably unites us - that is, the potential risk of flooding. That's what's important. We have recorded them and therefore the anti-corrosion projects have flowed at such speed to contain soils, limit water flow and have done them so far. Of course I - as I imagine - and the President-in-Office and all those who are involved in the commons, can never be quiet for anything. We have to be at the raids, and that's what we're doing. We're on top all the time. Both in their works and in their quality, construction and control. And now, Mr Kurubli, so that I do not take any more time and the President is in the awkward position to interrupt me, to answer about meteorological issues. So, let me tell you what is going on with the weather stations in Evia. The EMI network comprises three automatic meteorological stations. One is in the mountains, very close to the Iastia, that is, the second is in central Evia in Kymi and the third is in Karystos. However, there are also meteorological radars and the network of electric discharge detectors, which, together with the three weather stations I have told you, can also cover with meteorological observations and information, i.e. rainfall, number of electric discharges and other, extensive geographical areas, particularly in cases of extreme weather phenomena. These are the elements that led the Civil Protection - if you remember during "Ballou" to make various bans for moving, such as here in Athens, to Kifissos, which closed the avenue. And there were recommendations in Evia and roads closed there too. They've been very helpful to these networks that I told you especially about meteorological radar. And it may seem strange to you, but the meteorological radar in Larissa covers the wider area of northern Euboea. It also combines with the elements of the meteorological radar of Hymittos and thus covers the entire area of interest. Well, that's all. And, dear, Mr Kurubli, I am always at their disposal to answer any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u173	And along with these kinds of things you said, Minister, about Evia, don't forget both Villa and Aleppochori.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u174	Shall I say it? I have the evidence for them, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u175	No, don't say. We'll talk privately. It is simply that the topicality of the question has brought to my attention and regions of my own constituency which suffered during the summer. We are now moving on to the last for today's topical question. It is the seventh question of the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archeological sites in western Athens and its history, abandoned by the state". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, the western Athens is archaeologically perhaps the second most important constituency of Athens as it is the centre of Athens that hosts the second UNESCO monument of Attica, the Monastery of Dafni. We've talked in this Chamber before. I have raised issues of archaeological interest in the region and I will bring back immediately. And what were we talking about? The emergence of the narrow Daphne, this virgin part, of the untouched section of the Sacred Road. Then you promised that, as regards the Memorial of Pythoniki, the sanctuary of Aphrodite is a series of monumental sites in need of intervention. You said to us: 'We have already planned interventions in these areas and studies are currently being carried out by the relevant departments of the Ministry in order to make it ready in 2021'. I wonder what has happened and how much you have to show us some progress on this matter. The same question was asked about the northern part of the branch of the ancient Sacred Road, which is located the Poikilo Mount and is from the top of the hill of Echos to the lake of Koumoundouros. It is about 30 meters [30 m] and while there is a sign of archaeological site, there has been no archaeological site or at least I could not find the preaching decision anywhere. This section was excavated by John Trail in 1937 and there is a multitude of scientific and other publications. It is at stake at the moment, because it has been abandoned and covered by vegetation. Previously, the Antiquities editor had issued the decision to approve an environmental upgrade study of Lake Koumoundourou on 25-1-2005 with the formation of a earthly educational path around the ancient lighthouse on the hill of Gika and north of the lake. What's happened to this? It's a question. Secondly, we have the theme of the Greek "Siniko Wall", these five kilometers, the wall of the Dome, which unites Poikilo with Parnitha. There's a stunning abandonment over there. It's a fourth-century wall. It has to do with the experience since the Spartans invaded in Athens from there. There is no real access to the space. The site is not registered on the Internet lists of declared archaeological sites and monuments and so on. In fact, it is a unique monument that connects the central history of ancient Athens at a distance of breath from the center of Athens today. And finally, at the height of Kalistima, in Chasia, in the wider region of the neighborhood of western Athens, where HYTA Flora - not in the same area, but in the same height - we have the ancient municipality of Ois, which have already been excavated, has been documented. Excavations are very small, in 1910 and 1996. It is abandoned today, it is not accessible and monuments like the ancient road and the ancient bridge have been started and lost. In fact, we're talking about monuments that are very important at a distance of breath from the center of Athens. They could put West Athens in the archaeological map and yet they have been abandoned. In fact, we do not understand how you can justify this abandonment. We would like, please, your answers before we move on to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u177	The Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Mendoni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President, for your question, because that is how you give me the opportunity to say what has been done and what we have just heard. With regard to the first question of your question about the location of Caves - Callisti in Fili, where the ancient Municipality of Oia is located, I would point out that the site has been protected since 1996 with the relevant declaration. Following recent investigations by the Western Attica Antiquities EG, the antiquities described already since the beginning of the last century by Cooper and Shadow have been rediscovered and their topographical imaging is under way. The excavations referred to in 1994 and 1995 were also carried out in the context of the construction of the Attica Road. The area is crossed by Attiki Street and the Athens - Peloponnese railway line on the east-west axis. Therefore, its northern part is accessible from the northern highway of Attica, while the south from the safeway through the NATO Avenue. It's not isolated, that is. The preached archaeological site has an area of about eleven acres. However, despite the great burden of work due to many monuments, the staff of the Antiquities Department of Attica carry out regular autopsies, while cleansing from vegetation has resulted in the detection and imprinting of the monuments that are under way, as I told you. The ancient Dema wall is located in the west of Ano Liosia, between the foothills of Parnitha and Mount Aigaleo, in Poikilo mountain, that is. It is visible within four miles of three hundred and sixty meters, most of which is maintained in the east of KYTAA Ano Liosia and Ghosia. In order to protect the wall and its wider area, within which other antiquities have been identified, an archaeological site has been declared since 2013. I note that the archaeological site is registered on the site of the archaeological archive. You can find it, you can find it. In addition, the Western Attica Antiquities Agency for the promotion of the wall has posted information and photographs of the monument on its website, as well as a map showing the possibilities of road access to it from three points. So this isn't cut off. Point one. From the White-Front NATO Avenue, from the upstream to Ano Liosia, to the height of the limemaking "DUkeri and SIA". Point two. From the Aspropyrgos Avenue NATO, from the downstream current to Aspropyrgos to the height of the new cemetery under the air bridge of the Stavros - Eleusina Street. Point 3. From the Aspropyrgos Avenue NATO, from the downhill current to Aspropyrgos, at the height of the camp Mac, to the road leading to the "Tower" of the Dimas on the hill of Piggath and the entrance of the HYTA of the Ghost. Responsibility for planning to put signs of signalling and direction and information to the public. In 2021, a study of immediate restoration measures was carried out for the fixing and promotion of the ancient Dema wall, in collaboration with the Municipality of Floris and the Western Attica Antiquities Branch. The study has been approved for 2022. Moreover, in the area of the wall there are regular autopsies made by officials of the tax collector of antiquities to check the condition of the monument, precisely because of its specific nature, namely the proximity with the HYTA, as well as common self-consciousness with the Forest of Parnitha, the Municipality of Flora and other bodies, in order to comply exactly with environmental legislation. The Lake Koumoundourou, with an eighty - eight - acres surface, is identified with the southern and larger of the two lakes formed by the stream of the Reites, i.e. the waters of the springs flowing from the west edges of Mount Aegaleo. During the performance of the great liberation mysteries from the region of Lake Koumoundouros the participants in the procession of transferring the sacred objects from Elefsina to Athens and vice versa. South of Lake Koumoundouros, on the northern slope of the hill of Echos, the excavation research has brought to light part of the assumption of the secondary mountain branch of the Holy Road. For the protection of the assumption, the Western Attica Antiquities editor shared to build tunnels in the technical work of the regional road in the part that meets the assumption of the ancient road, just to protect it. Your note is not correct that the lake has no protection, as it has not been declared archaeological site. Already since 1974, Lake Koumoundourou has been known as a historic site with a protection zone of fifty meters around it. In addition, the area of the mountain tumor of Aegaleo, where the lake is located, is protected as a landscape of special natural beauty with two sermons in 1968 and 1969. In addition, it is located in Zone G1 of Mount Agaleo. According to Law 2742/1999 Zone G1 is defined as an area of a perimeter park, with recreational functions, without permanent facilities, where only the building of recreational historical and environmental information can be permitted. So the area is completely protected. According to Law 4277/2014, the new Regulatory Plan of Athens and Attica provides for the region as part of the cultural curriculum of the route starting from Keramikos, which connects Athens with Elefsina via the Holy Street. Works to highlight the part of the Holy Road in this post are included in the work "Projects for the promotion and promotion of the ancient Holy Road and the monuments that mark its course", which has been under way since September 2020 and is implemented by the Archaeological Service with resources of the Ministry of Culture. They go on to twelve points, from which the Holy Street passes, between them and the lake of the Reites. Mr. MEP, the Western Attica Antiquities editor has 13 municipalities with important archaeological sites and monuments of all periods. It does not abandon the archaeological sites and monuments of its competence, as you claim, performs a large number of excavations in private and public works, implements works for the restoration, promotion and formation of archaeological sites and monuments and in any case protects the monumental stock in every way and every means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u179	And we thank the Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let's go see them one by one. For the municipality of Oia, you say that topographical imprints will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u181	They're done, they're executed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u182	They're running. When will they be completed? We'd like a timeline. I imagine the timetable will be at your disposal from the moment they move on. Also, there are no signs. How can it be preached...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u183	It's in the planning of the tax office to put plates on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u184	Very good. So far, however, they don't exist. I'm glad there'll be signs in the future and we'll wait to see them. I would also like the timetable for when the signs will be entered in this preached space. For the wall of the Dimas you tell us that it is in the Archaeological Register, but in the continuous catalogue of monuments, declared sites and archaeological sites there is nothing, there is no reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u185	What can we do now? It's been migrated to the Archaeological Register. What are we talking about? That was decades ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u186	It goes on and it's available...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u187	It's been migrated to the Archaeological Register. That's what the whole world uses today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u188	It continues and is available online and is used by the world. There's nothing there over there. If there was a migration, you'd have removed him. But he exists. So whoever goes to Google will find this. For the northern vegetation of the Sacred Road, do you agree that it has been covered by vegetation? Is that a abandonment? Why has it not been declared? You told me that it was protected because it is protected by environmental legislation in the region. Is that possible? We're talking about the ancient Holy Way, about a documented excavation from the Tropic and not being preached? There's a sign here. It is an area that is archaeological site, has signs as archaeological site and has not been declared. Is that possible? Nor did you answer me for the part - I know that it is not in the question, but you know the answers - of the study approved for the northern part of the Holy Road and what has happened since, precisely, for the creation of paths and for a visit. In addition, you have not told me from your commitment to the monument of Pythioniki, for the sanctuary of Aphrodite and, more generally, for what should be done sometime, the Great Archaeological Walk of Athens in this part of the narrow Daphne, which may pass the road, but otherwise it is intact in the most part of it. We have no such part of the Holy Road as near the natural environment of antiquity. This could immediately become the Great Archaeological Walk that will pass every visitor of Athens. So what are you gonna do? You made a commitment that by 2021 you would have completed the promotional processes. What's happened? Do you change your commitment, you commit to something else, or does this matter end and move on to the next? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u189	And we thank Mr Arseni. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u190	First of all, we have to sort this out. The archaeological register is one of the largest infrastructures created for the management of archaeological sites and monuments. In this, then, there is everything. Everything else is now complete, it's done, it's done. What is the modern tool with which one moves, seeks archaeological sites and all the commitments resulting from the preachings are the Archaeological Register. This is well known and is used by everyone. So there it is clear and clear. As long as you come in and see it. As regards the Holy Way, of course, I remember very well that in 2019 from this Step of the House I answered you about linking the monuments on either side of the Holy Way and I already mentioned it, but you obviously did not retain it that since September 2020 the West Attica Ego is doing this work, which I said in reply to you in 2019. I told you before that the work of the Antiquities Branch includes the emergence of twelve points. These twelve points, therefore, are the ones to which the Holy Way is rescued and they are the ones that manifest themselves. It is the work that I mentioned and is in progress. It was not completed in December of '21, that is to say it is not completed in the two months because there was the huge problem of the pandemic that has brought back the works, at least some works. But this work is being carried out, executed and attributed. It is clear that for the Ministry of Culture and Sport priority is the archaeological site of Elefsina ahead of the Capital of Culture in 2023 as well as the Monastery of Dafni, a monument on the list of UNESCO World Cultural Heritage. This does not mean that the Ego of Antiquities and the central services of the Ministry of Culture do not ensure the antiquities that connect Athens with Elefsina. That's obvious. That is why we have created a project, which is why the project is being financed, which is why there are European funds going to the specific projects that I mentioned. The best rescued section - so for information - of the National Road is on course, it is in the archaeological site of Elefsina and this has been included together with the other eleven points in the promotion. As for the Dafni Monastery and the environment, it is clear that we are fully respecting and implementing our country's obligations towards UNESCO, either through the integrated management of archaeological sites and monuments that are now being developed by the management projects, either through the project that is in progress at the Dafni Monastery and the environment, which are part of the current NSRP 2014-2020, as well as the two projects that have since matured for the Dafni Monastery and the environment. Your Honor, look. The work of the taxes is multidimensional. First of all, there is an obligation to document and record the archaeological wealth of each region and then to take steps to protect, promote monuments and render them in society, because they are better protected. So I would like to tell you once again that the scientific staff of the competent Western Attica Antiquities Unit and of all the taxes are distinguished from the high level of scientific knowledge and a staff of conscientiousness. Be sure, then, that these people do not abandon the monuments in the picture that you want to describe as being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-08-S1-commons.u192	With the agreement of the House at 17.54 the sitting is closed next Wednesday 10 November 2021 at 9 a.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
