ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 154-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its PRII meeting, on Thursday 15 April 2021, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities by the Ministries of Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks and other provisions for strengthening development’]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of this issue on Monday 19 April 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Member of SYRIZA, Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: "The Agency for Payment and Control of Community Aid for Guidance and Guarantee (OPEKEPE): Earlier situations for the Agency and for farmers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 675/11-4-2021 of the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious questions about procurement procedures, reliability and self-diagnostic tests." 3. The Question No 662/5-2021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The unacceptable decision of the Government to turn the Trinity Hospital into a hospital of a disease". 4. The Question No 661/5-2021 by Congressman of East Attica of Mera25 Mr Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Performance and dispersion of the coronary', over-markets of food. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 673/9-4-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Mrs Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, entitled "Anti-Pyrical Period 2021". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Notable damage to Elijah's crops from the recent glacier." 3. The question asked by F' Vice-President Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Direct restoration of injustice and compensation to farmers - peach producers in Larissa for the damage they suffered since the 2020 frost." 4. The question by No. 683/12-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Dues from frost crops in the fruits of the Regional Unit (PT) Pellas, Regional Unit (PT) Imathia and the Amyntai region". 5. The 684/12-24-2021 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastassis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Many problems in the School of Advanced Neo-Checket Education (SPEN) in the camp of Kolokotronis in Tripoli". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kastoria of SYRIZA under No 4563/25-2-2021 - Progressive Alliance Mr. Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled "Hellenic and Delugeous Greek Melie". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 902/16-12-2020 report by the Greek MP for the Change Movement Mr. Charalambou Kastanides to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The renewal of the area of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions to be discussed. Sixteen questions will be discussed, and four will not be discussed. We are not going to discuss the number. 669/8-4-2021 topical question by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Development and Investment, due to lack of responsibility. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that we should not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. 677/12-4-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. It will also not be debated because of the blockade of the Member or the number of Members. 685/12-4-2021 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Also, the 4551/25-2-2021 question by MP B1' North Athens section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Mariliza Xinoyannakopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is not discussed in consultation. First we will discuss the tenth question under number 679-12-24-2021 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: “Suspension waiver, envisaged by No. 98 of Law 4623/2019 (A 134) concerning public work.' The question will be answered by the President-in-Office present, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, we are again on the same subject here. I'll start with some things that are self-evident and obvious for all of us. The committing of a crime is well-known to disturb the sense of security for citizens and lead to the break-up of social peace. This, as has been pointed out, automatically leads the community to try to restore peace within it in various ways, one of which is opportunities for reintegration. The perpetrator must symbolically correct the evil he caused either to the individual or to the whole, in order to restore the relations that have been broken down. In that regard, as has been widely supported by the three objectives of the penalty, punishment, reintegration, correction, the last goal of the correction offers many advantages, as the most human and socially effective. In this sense, the remedial process is also public-private work. However, in our country we still have a major climate of punishing justice, with problems in spending, over-inflation, especially in the CIVID era, to slow down the performance of justice. We're coming to see what happened before. Prior to SYRIZA, Article 82 of the Criminal Code applied, where the public service job was not a main penalty, but a conversion of the financial penalty of the fine. Thus, it served only the financially sound ones. In July 2019, the government of SYRIZA, in order to avoid impact, for both prisoners and the country, chose to establish socially beneficial work as a primary penalty, as well as as as a form of conversion of the custodial sentence or replacement of money. It was defined as taking into account factors such as age, state of health, occupational and family obligations. It has therefore become possible to impose the penalty for public works, both to the economically weak and to the financially stable on the one hand. On the other hand, the possibility of limiting the phenomenon of the deterioration of the criminal procedure to purely collectivity was envisaged. However, your Government in August 2019 suspended power, with the abbreviation of better preparation. And to your credit, in the same debate we have had, you have confirmed the correctness of these legislative options of the SYRIZA, for the possibility of a convicted for some time to serve his sentence in an alternative way. You described the prediction to be a major sentence as a step of modernisation. It's been a long time since. You have committed yourself that, at least by the end of the year, you will have completed the procedures so that public work can be implemented on terms, conditions and control and that Greek citizens too can see if what one says becomes reality. Unfortunately, however, Minister, so far we have not seen anything happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to remind you of what I said by closing my denial in the exact previous question, which you have asked. I told you then that my wish is in reasonable time to be ready to propose the abolition of Article 98 of Law 4623 of 2019 and, of course, to have the institution of social work restored. That is because I, too, imagine that what I am saying to you responds to common sense - I had shared your reasonable concern about the possibility of an indefinite suspension of the application of the institution, so that this suspension would become permanent, since this provision of the suspension did not provide for a specific time horizon. I am telling you, I think your question today is an example of a parliamentary procedure. What exactly must be done through parliamentary control? To highlight the issues of society and to check the way in which the executive and management of course meet these challenges. Of course, through a logic which is not just an opposition to the parliamentary procedure, but is to monitor the consistency of what has been said, awaiting concrete results. So you are doing very well and coming back with this question. But I'm actually coming. I am presenting to you, starting with my decision of 4 February to set up a working group, on the draft of a joint ministerial decision on the application of the mutually beneficial labour measure as an alternative to imprisonment. But an alternative to imprisonment. The working party is eleven years old or twelve years old, if I remember correctly, and it participates, apart from the service actors responsible for implementing and controlling, representatives of local government, who have so far been the key - and it is the key - to increasing the available positions in the OTAs, which, as you can see, are one of the bets of the institution. Of course, we must insist on that. In addition, lawyers are involved in this working party with experience in applying the institution to date. Although my specific decision provides a horizon for the conclusion to be delivered at the end of this month, it is useful for objective reasons to give a slight extension. This is because it is necessary to conclude a consultation cycle with other ministries, whose participation is deemed necessary. Who are these ministries? The Ministry of the Interior, for the participation of the wider public sector in the making available of jobs. The Department of Digital Governance, to create a digital platform in which the positions of socially beneficial work will be seen. The Ministry of Finance, in order to find resources to support the institution and, where appropriate, others, which the progress of the work seems to indicate. Mr President, public work is, of course, an alternative to the creation of the penalty for minor violations, in which imprisonment in prison would best serve the penal character of the criminal conviction. And I think at least we agree that this should be done by specific rules and conditions. In particular, after the extension of the measure with the new Criminal Code, which would result - we all know this - in the rapid increase in the cases in which public-private work is to be provided, whether as a primary penalty or as an alternative to the creation of restrictions on freedom of movement. If we give practical solutions to all these organisational issues around the community's social benefits, I believe that we will best serve the penitentiary core of the institution, which also combines the community's offer, but without losing the character of the penalty. I will come back with perhaps more specific information topics in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your first and good talk. Nevertheless, I have a feeling, with all the appreciation and respect on your face, that you are already late. But, as our people say, 'good slower than ever'. I am pleased with the start of this process. I must say that the extension you have given makes some sense of insecurity in terms of the regular time of closure. But here we'll be, we'll both be fine. Because, firstly, you know that for some time now this process has begun and as you said on Mr Patulis, the CEDEFOP has changed, it has been organised. The debates with the CEDEFOP cannot be left behind. The monitoring mechanism, not perfection, Minister, but a basis, which has been the subject of some proper, real application of the institution. As far as the institutions are concerned, it is well known who they should be. You and I have said that. Forestry services, lawyers, hospitals, are for granted who they are. They don't come up now. Of course, we must also comply with the recommendation of the Council of Europe that the service provided should be socially useful and essential and proportionate to the seriousness and gravity of the offence, taking into account the individual's specific parameters. It also has a third issue, very serious, Minister, and you should have had a hurry. It's the decongestion of prisons. Socio-social work would contribute to this. I'm sure the prison decongestion must be on your priorities. The Legislative Council of State has said that the compensation we pay for 2020 is EUR 2.131 000 in the Minutes - it is too many and it concerns prisoners who are complaining about detention conditions. The main causes of this are aggregation. The report by the European Union Agency for Human Rights provides an insulting picture of the situation in Greece. It is therefore an undeniable need to disintegrate for the small and medium-sized invasion and, above all, in the era of the coronary being stacked by the prisoners on each other. And there have been repeated political initiatives by SYRIZA, but even monthly reports of prosecutors. The cost of the prisoners is too high for our country. And that's hard to calculate because many ministries, like the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Justice. They increase dramatically through the number. I will not repeat the example of all civilised countries, such as Canada, Britain. That's self-evident. I'm hanging up. How will this model and the notorious monitoring mechanism be organised today? Will there be more jobs for juvenile and social assistance caregivers? Will there be any other predictions? Could it be by finishing the attacker's way out of the damage he caused? Of course not. But it can make a correction. And you know what the compensation for the victim means in the criminal proceedings, that's about society redress. Don't overlook it. I'm taking this opportunity, where you're here, to say something. Lawyers yesterday had mobilizations and you know it. And lawyers are thousands of professional scientists who aren't the ones who show up on the windows with the hundreds of millions of pay. You haven't taken care of this class, Minister. You need to take measures, even now, at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, the truth is that during your speech you raised issues very differently in relation to the actual substance of the timely question. I will avoid remarks of the press "when did you discover the needs and problems of lawyers" since the well-known, "late" and possibly remedial effort and mood, which your prolongation shows in relation to negative issues in the previous period, is obviously known throughout the Greek society. Nor, of course, will I go into a sense of responding to you today, because you will see in the very short term the initiatives of the Ministry of Justice and in relation to the companies for the protection of minors and children's caretakers and in relation to various other issues which have a strong social footprint. I will try to explain to you in the answer I will give you the essence of your question, to see why not only this whole project was not or is not easy until today, but unfortunately, it arises because your own government with an unjustified background one day before the House closed down a new Criminal Code, without having organized absolutely anything in relation to the consequences that would be caused. I do not want to remind you of what the previous Minister for Justice of your own government said. We will leave that for another debate. But what we have to say and to which we must stand is that the purpose of prison is better human beings and their release from future illegal behaviours, obviously in order to serve both the interests of the state and society itself. Why do we have the public works? Because there are convicted, who are not systematic infringements of the established rules but infringements because of the circumstances, without continuing illegal behaviour, so that there is a real danger to society. And these people make sense that they should not be in detention penitentiary. Obviously, they need to be penalised because of violations of laws. However, their punishment must respect the principle of proportionality and be a balance between the public interest and the legitimate goods of the convicted. In Greece, the provision of social benefits to date was in the nature of the alternative way of establishing the sentence, since it is shown that the sentenced person is unable to pay the amount of the conversion due to his financial insufficiency - you said so earlier in your speech - and therefore he was at risk of carrying out the sentence. With the new Criminal Code, public work is not only an alternative to the creation of the sentence, but now it is a form of punishment that can be imposed from the outset. It's a primary sentence in other words. It was therefore - and I too want to be honest - an important new, new, new initiative for reforming criminal justice, which was wronged by the way you legislated. And, as you can see, it is not enough simply to predict something in a text of law. If you are seeking to introduce a significant and comprehensive reform, you should have organised all the administrative support structures that act on this legislative initiative earlier. You did not do that, and today we are actually forced to try to see how we really will increase the number of jobs in society, which is the major issue. You realise that it may not only be the LAGs, or the only local government that can support such a large number of positions. We are therefore looking for where elsewhere in the wider public sector we can really have official public workstations and, of course, how to organise a new electronic platform that is available to everyone so that we can identify through the courts and through the judges where such a penalty can actually be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u10	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u11	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll be right back. But we must understand that we must serve many needs. The punishment and penalisation of small offenders is, of course, given that it can be served through public work, that public work helps us to decongested detention stores and their orderly operation, that we can, of course, meet the needs of public bodies and, finally, we can also improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens themselves. We are convinced that it is an effort which has started with many problems of confession. I repeat: you have challenged a great effort to change the Criminal Code in the way the SYRIZA government has attempted to vote for it. We're here, though. We're all making a very big effort...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u12	I can't leave you any more. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u13	...in order to respond to an issue and an issue we know it is concerned with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u14	We have sixteen questions. I would ask that the time be respected, with a little tolerance. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister for Justice has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Government's Criminal Responsibility", as is the case, on 13-04-2021: Criminal case law concerning the late Minister of Education Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos and the Deputy Minister of Finance Christos Stagiras and the criminal case law concerning the current Foreign Ministers Petros Molyviatis, Theodora Bakoyannis and George Papandreou and the Directors of Education Marietta Giannakou and Euripidis Stylianidis Stylianidis. Let's go to the next two topical questions, which my colleague Mrs. Pipilis is asking. The first question under number 664/6-4-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Application of the penalty for social work as an alternative sentence, with responsibility for self-government". The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Petsas. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have just seen here from the House with the current question of SYRIZA's MP Achaias, Mr Markos, to which the Minister of Justice Mr Tsiaras replied, that the question of the application of the penalty for socially beneficial labour as an alternative or normal penalty is a major one and concerns the greater part of society, because there are few times when thousands of Greeks are indignant, for example, with the vandalism of a building, with the destruction of a public space. We are talking about this kind of petty crime, with one difference, that petty crime must also be dealt with so that it does not happen after hooey and habit, as is the case. We are talking about the Minister of the Interior, because throughout Europe and America, in the civilised countries, the alternative penalty is mainly the responsibility of local authorities. The CEDEFOP, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, since February 6, 2020 had unanimously agreed to enter this process. I, on 15 June 2020, asked the Secretary-General of State at the time, Mr Livanio, and he told me that at the time, at the time, the Ministry, yours, the Interior, was still waiting for the concrete proposals from the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, so that at last the social work on vandalism, the disaster of public spaces or private property would be implemented in Greece as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u16	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I am very grateful to Mrs Pipilis for the question she is building on a very interesting subject which, as you said, Mrs Pipilis, and all parties across the board, of course, also the Greek society. As Mr Lebanese said in a reply to your previous question, the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior continues to be in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and with the local government to implement this framework. Joint work can become an important component of the administration of justice. After all, the aim of penalisation is to improve people and to remove them from future illegal behaviour, in the interests of themselves, of course, and of society itself. With compulsory social work, we can achieve many objectives, such as the penalisation, as you have said, small offenders. Vandalism is a classic example, which is the object of socially beneficial work. With regard to the reasons why Article 81 of the Criminal Code has not been applied, in which public-private work in public services and local authorities is now provided for as the main penalty by the court, I mention two factors, supplementing or building on the arguments put forward by the Minister of Justice Mr. Tsiaras just before: First, the provisions of Law No 4623/2019, according to which the temporary suspension of that article was introduced, in order to improve the preparation of the relevant procedures and to consult the bodies responsible for implementing the measure more effectively. Secondly, the fact that the working party, as you have heard before, set up by the Minister of Justice for the purpose of drawing up a draft joint ministerial decision on the implementation of the mutually beneficial labour measure as an alternative to imprisonment, has not yet completed its work. This is absolutely respected, considering that the first time is being attempted in a coordinated way to extend the bodies to which public works can be offered to include more small offenders for whom the court considered that it is not worth the time of imprisonment for their criminal behaviour. We understand that, in order to implement and make possible the measure of public work towards the LAGs, it is not only the support of the measures, but we must prioritise the preparation of specific and certain public-private work programmes and provide for positions in these programmes to be implemented in the LAGs. In my dentistry, I'm going to come back to this. This is precisely the work of the working party. The working party is already working on the data collected by the institutions and looks at all aspects of the issue and we all know, as the Minister said, that the next time will complete its work. We are in direct cooperation with the CEDEFOP. We are able to know that most of the municipalities have embraced the programme and we are in a position to identify these operational programmes in the next few years, to which I should like to refer, Mr President, and Mrs Pipilis, and in my second language. I am sure that, with these actions which are unfolding in the near future, this framework will take flesh and bone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u18	Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u19	So this urgent need is to see that it is on its way. I hope it happens soon. I mean that the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the co-legislative ministries, in particular with your Ministry, should, through the committee, immediately complete this implementation and implementation of the normal penalty with social work. Only bring in your mind the houlgars that destroy the trains and terrorize the world, writing slogans everywhere, only the ones who destroy private and public property. Let me give you the most recent example. Thessaloniki has been seized - not now explain the reasons and why - and they destroyed half the building of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. The damage has been estimated and it is EUR 64 000 - EUR 64 000 - I repeat - which we taxpayers pay for. They also left for those who were arrested - if possible - university teachers - I say this and I am outraged - and for the managers of the destroyed Aristotle University, for which we taxpayers will pay again EUR 64 000 for their damages, have dared to create a fund-raising fundraiser so that the vandals who have been arrested can go to justice have a lawyer, which is their legitimate right. In other words, unreasonable things are still happening that force the citizen to become pressurised in this direction, because there is also a penitentiary. To accept that many of these children are at an age with various problems. But when the court tells him, my boy, you're not going to jail because it's not what we want. Let's get this straight. But you will go to the Archdiocese who has the "Solidarity" and standardize the food that is then given to weak citizens or go to the nursing home and you will maintain and care for elderly or despised people, I think it is the best penitentiary for children who have displayed a - maybe once - infractionality to get the message of life, the message of healthy society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u21	Everything Mrs Pipili said is in line with my general direction. What I want to focus on is that we need to implement an institutional framework properly, so that we can develop it, because it is very important that we have the result that we all want, that we want to have justice and not punishment, that of reinstatement when it comes to more than one violation of human rights, but in particular, when it comes to the need to incorporate it, which is a breacher in a proper way and not to have a repetition of such phenomena. We must make good provision for the work plans. What do I mean by that? That, as you have said, the examples of what can be done in the community labour supply must be reflected and also what will be his action, who supervises him, whether he should be in the municipality of his home or in another municipality, and all of this should be reflected in the local authority and supervision framework, so that the framework is properly implemented. That was not self-evident. That is why all these discussions were needed within the working party, but also in the constant communication that we as the Ministry of the Interior with the CEDEFOP, President Papastergiou and Director-General Karayannis, in order to have from all the municipalities what can be offered, in what way can be organised, as I said before, what will be offered and possibly supervised, so that we can be sure that the framework is implemented properly. I am very optimistic, following these discussions that we have had, that we are close to having the framework that is needed for the municipalities to accept many of these kinds of jobs for public service. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. The sixth question will then be discussed under number 670/8-4-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘Legal framework for the clearance of plots and uncovered areas by the local government (OTA)’. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. In February 2021, the bill for my countryside in the eastern Attica, where I saw a letter printed from the community, from the Municipality of Saronicos, where the Vice Mayor of Civil Protection Mr. Galanis signed, and which addressed the citizens, who have plots, houses, houses, anything in the area, to point out to us the obvious, that we need to clean up our gardens and land from the dryer, in view of the start of the anti-nuclear period. I immediately called the Vice Mayor of Civil Protection Mr Galani, and I said to him: 'Do you know what the problem is? I, like other communists and owners, of course, make sure our land is clear, because it is common sense. If our land gets a fire, it's gonna burn the house. But years I've been fighting, because in the area, next to my property, it's a plot, which has three meters of dry grass. We can't find the owner. You municipalities don't have rights to shut up, as society asks, to get a bulldozer to clean them up. Man explained to me that there is a great difficulty in consulting with the State Building Agency, so that they know in a timely manner who belongs the particular dangerous to the entire plot. Also, there is a big problem with the forests, where it was proved by the new law, which finally comes, that 85% of Greece is a forest, because there are some porks there. So it does not clean the small local woods. The question, then, is: What will you do to legally serve self-government so that it can sooner make self-evident, clean up the plots so as not to burn property and public property?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would like your tolerance to respond to this issue, because I would like to say something broader. Mrs Pipilis, you raise a matter which is very serious and which falls within the overall management of fire protection. I assure you that we are in constant cooperation with all those responsible for the fire season and its preparation within the framework of the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. In the next few days, however, we will also be alert to a very serious issue. We have an extraordinary funding for the municipalities in the north-east of Attica affected by the bad weather of 'Medea'. This is very important in view of the anti-missile period, because there is too much material, which is fuel, which should be collected. It's not a simple process. It is a very complex process of several million euros. We're in agreement with all the municipalities from Kifisia and Dionysus to Oropus, Agia Paraskevi. It is a great deal of work that needs to be done over the next few years. Municipalities have started out with our first disbursements of money, but they need much more. We are also in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and with the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, and with the Secretary-General of Economic Policy, Mr Triantopoulos, who is also in the framework of the Governmental Committee on State Aid, so that we have immediately the next period of disbursement of this money in order to proceed more quickly with the collection of trees that have fallen, branches that may not yet have been collected within our perimeter forests. This is very important in the face of anti-nuclear protection. I would therefore like you to know that we are also moving in this direction, not only on the issues of dried grass, but more generally on how to deal with these wounds left behind by the 'Medea'. With regard to the other issues you raise, the municipalities - in accordance with the relevant provisions of the 'KALIKARATIS' - are responsible for complying with the cleaning obligations of the land owners and other uncovered areas located in towns, towns and settlements, as well as for the obligation of self-destruction in the event of failure to comply with the obligations. Such care shall be taken, but in accordance with applicable fire-fighting provisions and shall apply as a fire-fighting device. It is the number 4/2012, entitled ‘Definition of fire protection measures for pedestrians and other uncovered countries located in many cities, towns and settlements’. Recently, representatives of the Ministry of Interior have also been appointed, as requested by the Headquarters of the Fire Corps, for direct cooperation on the need to revise these fire-fighting provisions in order to make the current framework more effective. The revision of the current legislation is under way by the relevant Services of the Ministry of Civil Protection, by redefining the measures to prevent and deal with fires. We assist as a Ministry of the Interior the Fire Corps headquarters, where the municipalities are involved. Secondly, I would like to mention that in the next few years a specific electronic application will be put into operation for the direct access to the real estate data, designed by the "Greek Register" under the auspices of the Ministry of Digital Governance in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. Through the platform, the lawyers and engineers of the ATTs will have direct access to the real estate data. In this way, municipalities will be served more quickly in the case of the search for land owners who do not comply with the requests of the municipalities to clean their land. The revision of the regulatory framework and the immediate access of OTAs to stockfarming data will therefore help combined to resolve the issues you are addressing. However, I would also like to stress that the improvement and simplification of the relevant procedures we are called upon to establish does not alter the individual responsibility of the citizens and, in particular, the landowners, who must clean their plots of dry grass and flammable materials to prevent the risk of fire. As regards the subject of the consequences, as you said, it is not only a matter of common sense but also of sanctions for those who do not comply with the existing cleaning provisions of their lands. I say that the offenders apply administrative and criminal sanctions. These penalties are described in both the provisions of the ‘Kallikraj’ and the applicable firearms provision. The fine amounts to 50 minutes per square metre of the relevant area, which is an income of the relevant municipality. Also to the detriment of the offender, an equivalent cost to the municipality is to be borne by the land. In addition to this, criminal penalties shall be applied by the fire authority. So, together with the regulatory framework, the quickest access of the municipalities to the Stock Exchange and individual responsibility will go better in the next few years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Pipilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u27	Minister, I hope that this anti-nuclear period will not be searched again by the mayors and their services and civil protection via the register to ask 'this dangerous plot to whom it belongs'. And the Stock Office answering in October, so if it's a disaster, we've been destroyed. But you raised a point here. It would be very interesting, Minister, because I cannot do it - to ask the municipalities a question. All these years where the laws in Greece also apply in this case, really, how many fines have the municipalities imposed? It'll be very interesting. There are laws in Greece. You know, they don't. Fines are cut, but they're not paid. So I think that, on the one hand, social, individual responsibility is also a direct sanction. I sincerely ask you to ask this kind of question, to see if the penalty system to be imposed is in operation. Let me remind you - you know - that the biggest problem is that I denounce that a plot next to me, of which I do not know the owner and everything, is dangerous for the whole area to burn. But when the Land register does not respond quickly, I see that you solve this, i.e. there will be direct cooperation in Pierrakakis style directly with the computer. So he asks whose municipality is the plot, he immediately replies the Register "is him" and then the following. This will be very essential, because so far the municipalities have not been able to enter - rightly to some extent - foreign property - without the prosecutor's orders. So here, the problem is really immediate. You see it with the obsessions of 'Media', which I now believe will be thousands of plunged woods and logs in all of these areas that have been affected. I therefore hope that at least during the current anti-nuclear period we will catch up with it. I insist the Forestry doesn't clean the local forest land. In East Attica there are forests where they are legal - I am not saying illegally - built houses, and while we send them documents, we call them, they do not come to clean the little wood in the neighborhood and then we are asked for the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u28	That's not all they do, Mrs. Pipili. If an esteemed mayor goes to clean it up, they're sending the police to arrest him. This happened in the Municipality of Athens some years ago and elsewhere, not only here. Here, Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u29	I think, Mr President, that you are speaking precisely with your great experience in this matter, and it is indeed a serious issue that I hope - I am almost sure of the first discussions that we have had - that in the context of clearing out competences between the various levels of governance we will finally be able to find one side in this climate that has been afflicting us for a long time. With regard to the issues you raised, Mrs Pipilis, I would like to focus on the issue of 'Media' and the consequences she left behind. I would like to say that it seems now - even with a distance from this very long weather, especially for the north-eastern Attica - that it was not just a question of trimming trees, but we are talking about a very great disaster, a drop of thousands of trees, which, even now with very great efforts, are now being made by the municipalities in need of additional help to collect them before we enter the summer. That's why we're gonna help them so we can clean up our forests. What is also very important is that we will not wait in June or July to implement the electronic platform that I told you before, but it is a matter of days and in any case before the end of the month that is running, i.e. before the end of April. Therefore, as regards the electronic platform for cross-checking the property data by the lawyers and the relevant OTA employees, it is a matter of a few days in order to be able to locate such land that may be flammable due to the grass that they have inside them. So what is needed next is to put the electronic platform in place - and the second is in the context of clarifying the responsibilities of penalties, such as those which should be imposed and possibly not imposed, in order to be acceptable to its citizens, to become much more automated and faster in order to have the desired result for everyone, which is the protection of our forests, of course, but of human life and the property of our citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u30	Good. We are now moving on to the next question, in the second question under number 665/7-24-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasias (Syria) Readingpoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Convention on the donation of the State to the Onassis Foundation for the Works on the Acropolis". Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Mendoni, on the initiative of the SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Vetta, since last June, last June 2020, you have been asked - and with the signature of many SYRIZA Members - to sign documents concerning the Donation Convention between the Ministry of Culture and the Onassis Foundation for the projects in the Acropolis. You have done almost a year to submit these documents to Parliament, which are incomplete, with silence, without any modifications made in the meantime, etc. I ask you, Minister,: First, do you know or do you not know that a donation contract is ratified by the House and that that is how it becomes law? Why didn't you? At the same time, we had in Parliament a number of sanctions for contracts by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Onassis Foundation and the company "ARIONA HELLAS". You didn't. Of course, when we saw the initial February 2020 contract, we understood why. Besides, in the most flagship monument in the country no Minister would have thought of registering his name in the Acropolis with Article 9. Once learned, as soon as "AGEY" and journalist Polly Kremniotis revealed what was provided for in Article 9 of the Convention, which provides for listing your name, you have rushed, as always, to take two signs ready, supposedly, to enter the Acropolis, without having a decision of the CSCE, without having an opinion of the CSCE, without anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam Secretary, who are you kidding? I understand very well, you are not a Member, you do not know the functioning of the House. Is there anyone here to talk to you about what's going on in this House? Can you cheat on her like that? Can you do works in the Acropolis without ratification of a contract? Can you enter your name in the Acropolis? Is that arrogance and arrogance, Minister? Where did you get that? Do you know what names are there in the Acropolis? There are two inscriptions inside the Acropolis without names and the two names on the flag are Glezos and Santa. What did you guys do so you might want to have an inscription?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u32	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u34	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, let's get things started. The obligation to build a modern elevator in the Acropolis was dictated by the need to ensure access to the monuments of the Rock to the Acropolis and generally to the persons involved. This need has been pressurised as early as autumn 2018, when on substance the construction lift was stopped due to continuous damage. The Ministry of Culture of the Government SYRIZA - ANEL did absolutely nothing. By July 2019, nothing had happened. We have dealt with this with great success. And I say "particular success", as we did not just replace the old rider, but a modern elevator of variable slopes with innovative construction solutions and resources that we secured from donation to the Onassis Foundation was built. Despite the adversities of the pandemic, the elevator was completed on 3 December 2020. The project has been implemented rapidly and has already been attributed to the public, thanks to the excellent cooperation of the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the external partners of the Onassis Foundation, with the appropriate application of the provisions of the existing legislation, of the entire legislation. On 28 February 2020, the donation contract was signed between the Greek State, the Onassis Foundation as a donor and the public limited company "ARIONA ELAS" as an implementing body. It was prior to the adoption of a decision by the relevant directors - you had chosen them - which approved the project specifications, after a unanimous decision of the Central Archaeological Board. It is stated explicitly that the object of the contract is to build and operate a slope elevator for raising people with motor difficulties in the Acropolis and to restore the lighting of the Acropolis Rock and its monuments. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. The subject matter of the donation reached the total amount of 1,700,000 euros and was fully covered by the donation of the Foundation. We are here today to answer your question - I read exactly - if the donation contract is finally valid. As I said before, and as all of Greece knows - and you, of course, have of course, recently gone to the Acropolis - the subject of the contract, i.e. the lift and the lighting, have been completed and delivered in September and December respectively. So how does the contract not apply? Therefore, in addition to micro-political feasibility, what is the point of the question whether the agreement on the donation of lifts and lighting applies, after the works have been completed, attributed and operated? I'm afraid this time, at the micropolitical and communication distortion, Mrs. Ignorestopoulou, the Civic Opposition went beyond itself. We are now coming to Article 9 of the Convention, which has caused SYRIZA's interest in the Acropolis and its image with a delay of several years. [[At this point the doorbell closes the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You probably didn't read the contract carefully. If you had read it, you would have found that the original contract is not about the work you like to call "cement coatings", but about the construction of the lift and the renewal of the lighting. If you had read the contract carefully, you would have found that the sign referred to in Article 9 and much more its content is not included in the contract project nor in the contract project, nor in that defined as the subject of the contract, nor in the terms of the contract. The reality, however much you still distort it, is that Article 9 speaks of a sign which is clearly foreseen as not being final. The content you refer to is not the final. The position shall be indicated and it shall not be final. The specifications of the plate are not even indicated. In contrast, I remind you of the contract that your government adopted in 2018 between the Niarchor Foundation and the National Gallery, an integral part of which was a special labelling study, which defines in detail everything, content, their precise location, specific specifications, and even the size of letters. Don't forget it. Let's go back to Article 9. It is stated that the State is committed to the donor to refer to its donation in line with the practice of public works in which the source of funding is used. The reference to me is nothing other than a polite proposal on the part of the donor that he accepts in the sign which mentions his offer that there should be a reference to the relevant representative of the State, even as a way of reminding us of the time when the project is being carried out. In any case, Mrs Ignastopoulou, the reality shows that the proposal has not been adopted and you know it. But you keep using it. I repeat from this step of the House that no sign has been posted or will be posted on the Acropolis Rock. The recognition of the Foundation's donation will be as follows: "The lighting of the Acropolis, the elevator and the routes of HEME have been implemented with the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Onassis Foundation. The financing of the projects is a donation of the Foundation to the Greek state." The registrant shall be accompanied by the logos of the two entities. The photographs of the signs, marble and metallic, have already been made public and I submit them to the minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sports, Mrs Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, your obsession with my face does not surprise me. On the contrary, I can say that I am pleased, because when we are working systematically to increase resources for cultural projects through donations and sponsorship contracts, you choose to deal with supposedly signs. However, as long as you systematically seek to degrade the quality of the political speech, it is incomprehensible that you beat and work for your micropolitical purposes monuments. I would like to conclude by pointing out that in our works on the Acropolis, in the elevator, in lighting, in the flooding and plumbing works, in the total anti-ceramic protection, in the paths, in the preparation of the vulnerability study, your Government has opposed the insulting images of AMEA on the permanently damaged rider, the dozens of fractures per year in the old roads and injuries of workers and visitors in the spring of 2019 from the fall of lightning in the Acropolis, which you had abandoned, without even having been interested in its elementary construction shield.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u36	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u37	I shall conclude, Mr President. These works were called upon by your president, SYRIZA’s president, as Chief of Police Response, since as Prime Minister his programme did not allow him to go up to the Acropolis and see for itself its abandonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u38	Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, please have the same time. For what SYRIZA did about the Acropolis, there are documents here, testify to the Minutes of the House and never come back in this way again, to see who is misleading and who is doing and what he is doing in relation to the Acropolis. I read to the House before the Greek citizens - the President of Parliament here - Article 9 of the Donation Convention: "The public agrees that at the beginning and end of the platform of the slope elevator and at the entrance of the Acropolis Propylanes next to the relevant inscription concerning the sponsorship of the EU and the Thorvantes Institute will enter a special marble inscription equal to the two above (or at least seventy centimeters) that states: “The slope lift and the lighting of Acropolis have been conducted with the exclusive sponsorship of the Onassis Foundation on Minister of Culture Lindoni (June 2020).” The precise position and specific specifications of this reference shall be finalised by an indication of the donor after prior consent of the Foundation.’ Article 9 of the Convention. In none of the following documents - Mr President, you can see that - which has been tabled in the House, there is no amendment to this Rule. Some signs appeared - the Minister showed them - since there was the post. There is no CAS opinion, because it says what the donor, that is, the Ministry of Culture, is doing, but we all know that for archaeological sites, especially for the Acropolis, we need an opinion from the CAS and a decision from the services. Where are these, Minister? Is that a make-up and a make-up? Secondly, Mr President of Parliament, because you have made us the honour of being here, is there a donation contract not ratified by the Greek Parliament? And the Minister will not invoke 3 a.m. The Court ruled as follows: 4182/2013 for projects implementing the donation. You know that, Mr President, better than I do. There must be a framework for donation so that this can be done. We're talking about the Acropolis, the country's most flagship monument. No game, no deception fits here. Mr President, on your own responsibility I ask, first of all, that opinions be delivered by approved lawyers if this is a donation contract and it is true, since it has not been passed by the House. I tell you that the same contract, identically, made the Onassis Foundation and the company "ARIONA" with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the same time. It certainly went through the House. The Minister cannot hide behind the fact that she has never been elected and does not know how this House works, because she should know that the Acropolis is a monument that is diverse and that requires us, clarity and transparency. So it cannot come here by a contract that is irresponsible. There's been contours. This is not against SYRIZA - New Democracy. Did Mrs. Mendoni, Mrs. Vassilopoulos, Mrs. Romopoulos, Mrs. Maragakou and other six hundred scientists so far who are signing against the stratifications, have they been SYRIZA? It would have been protected by the respectful Professor Corres, whom we all honour, if a contract had come, that we would have discussed what kind of stratifications are and that an international conference was held. The latter was with the unspoiled Bourra in 2013. So here we are dealing with an issue that concerns no one but the Greek Parliament and the Greek citizens. This is where you mislead the Onassis Foundation itself! You said you were going to make trips to AME, and Mr. Corres himself said he wasn't making trips to AME. They've been closed over...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u40	Good. Pick up your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u41	I therefore ask that the work be stopped immediately, that the House undertake to check whether this Convention is valid and then to discuss the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u42	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First of all, for reasons of calm, I shall avoid responding to everything that Mrs Anagnastopoulou is accusing me of about ignorance of procedures. You're making a very big mistake, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, but, anyway, I'm contradicting it. Once again you like to read excerpts and not see things in their entirety. Ignore the whole and stay in what you think serves your own policies. What I have to tell you is that you ignore basic things. Why, when in 2018 you adopted the Niarchos Foundation Donation Convention for the National Gallery, did you bother passing the then Ministry of Culture from the Central Council of Modern Monuments? No, of course, because that is what you thought they were coming. The opinion of the Central Archaeological Council, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, on these signs, obviously, will be available at the time that has to be found. We have already said that it will happen once there has to be. You've never been through it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u44	They're about to get the plates in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u45	Listen, Mrs. Readstopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u46	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u47	Don't interrupt! That's not how it works! He listened with absolute care.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u48	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u49	Who's cheating or not, judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u50	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, anyway, nothing is recorded. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u51	From the time this government was taken up, it was intended to develop public policies on culture as a whole. Our priorities are the protection and promotion of archaeological sites and monuments, using national and European resources, together with private resources through sponsorship programs and donations, investing in the know-how and scientific training of the officials of the Ministry of Culture. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, since 1975 the works in the Acropolis have been carried out in a certain way, under the responsibility of the Scientific Committee for the Conservation of Acropolis Monuments, by the relevant departments, through the opinions of the CSCE. We trusted in these people, whether they were the late Bouras and his associates or Manolis Corress - today - and his associates, the restoration of the Parthenon, the Near Victory, the Aniversary and were not questioned by anyone and we do not trust them with a route dissipation? For Christ's sake! Our priority is to upgrade the image of the Acropolis and to improve the services provided to its visitors, through the performance of the new lighting, which caused positive comments worldwide, the installation of the modern elevator, the configuration of the roads on the Rock, in order to facilitate the access of all visitors without exception. The change in the appearance of the Acropolis within eighteen months would be impossible without the assistance of the Onassis Foundation. For this reason, the Convention was signed in February 2020 in accordance with the provisions of Article 3A of L.4182/2013, as applicable. As I said in my reply, in the context of parliamentary control, donation contracts concluded under this law are excluded from the obligation to post the "DENMARK" and deposited in the archive, which is held by the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs. In addition, the signature by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance is subject to approval of the latter and exemption from the obligation to pay VAT, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2859/2000. The point is, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, that the Ministry of Culture and Sport is also at the forefront of cooperation with the private initiative and that is what is bothering you. In a short time we managed to make use of private donations in order to proceed to important projects of supranational scope: Acropolis, Tatoi, National Archaeological, Archaeological Museum of Sparta, Associations of Faliros, Museum of Modern Antiquities, National Museum of Contemporary Art. The truth is that you, too, ensured the National Gallery the important sponsorship of the Niarchus Foundation. However, despite the private resources given to you by generosity, you have managed - because it was a success - to put this project that we completed. A member of our government...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u52	Close, Minister. We're not asking a topical question today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u53	For this reason, the electronic donation platform was established under Article 51 of Law 4758/2020, which operates in the General Coordinating Secretariat of the Government Presidency. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, to finish, it is a pity that your micropolitics will not let you enjoy a work that enjoys a lot of other people. It is a pity that the Civic Opposition is turning into a parapolitical column. To close, not to say again that I did not inform you, I tell you that in the Acropolis on the northern convoy a sign will be posted by the listing of the two names, Glezos and Santa at the point where they managed to reach the Acropolis. Because the long history, the long time of this place must be recognized and honored.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u54	The third question under number 667/8-4-2021 will be discussed in the third cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Change Movement Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "It is not possible to complete Diplomatic Works, Laboratory Studies and Practical Exercises of Higher Students". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Syrigos, will answer. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, all colleagues. Good morning, Minister. It is a question that is really topical and even retarded, I would say as far as the initiatives we have to take are concerned. It is well known to everyone that, because of a pandemic, universities are still closed for student life. We're already in the third semester. The courses are held remotely for students and students. It is also a fact that the digital age has given us a valuable training tool. This is e-teaching using the Internet that enabled us to have some solutions so that children can continue their studies. However, you know that there are some specialties that either have laboratory exercises or diplomatic work or even practical exercises. So far, no alternative has been given for their handling. I would remind you that the practical exercise and preparation of these research and diplomatic work also has a piece of presentation and a successful examination in front of a committee of professors, which is a basic requirement, so that children can obtain their diploma or diploma. The degree formed by the examination of this diplomatic system plays a very important role in the final degree of 20% - 30%. It is also known that these work is carried out in group. There is a superintendent who has two - three students underneath who have to cooperate, investigate, do either laboratory or on-the-spot research. Many times they have to make visits and research into public services. So the practice of students is necessary in order to obtain their degree and has as a minimum mobility requirement for them to go on the ground, for example architects who have to take measurements in buildings. So the seniors have been addressing your ministry for too long. But there is complete inactivity for more than a year. As a result, these children are in danger of losing a second academic year without completing their studies. And now we have a category of children locked up because of the prolonged lockdown and they can't even proceed to applications for postgraduate programs for the next academic year 2021-2022. You know much better than me that applications are now. They do not know practically when they will complete their work, when and how they will be examined and whether they will eventually have a degree next September 2021. There is another category of children and they are the ones that, because of the frugality of the Ministry, lack the ability to obtain a degree and thus go out into the labour market. This means, in practice, that these children will be able to complete their studies in February 2022. Until then they will continue to wait when your Ministry will be activated, families will be charged without undue costs and they will lose any opportunity to continue their academic education, completing a postgraduate course. You know that there is information to your Ministry and you have been asked to have a special travel permit for students to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u56	Come on, Mrs. Kefalidou. We will not analyse the whole question of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u57	Also, children in the province are asked for a special leave to return to the cities where they are studying, to continue their work. Why am I saying that? I say this simply because it seems that while there are solutions and there can be some alternative proposals, there is no interest in the Ministry. The whole Antipolitics and I personally have tabled around the four questions: 15 January, 3 February, 23 February and 13 March.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Kefalidou, I can't give you any more time. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u59	So I ask you what action you will take and when, so that these students can complete their loose ends. I expect you to give alternatives. When are they going to complete them? Or are these gonna get into the mushroom and wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u60	Mrs. Kefalidou, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u61	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u62	But you're finished! You've been talking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u63	Don't exhaust your rigour on me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u64	Excuse me, you're an old congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u65	The previous seven minutes spoke, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u66	Five minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, it is a matter that concerns all Greek families.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u68	We don't have a dialogue. I said from the outset that we have sixteen questions today. I said there's going to be tolerance, but not to go to three times a year. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. The subject to which the honourable Member referred is an extremely serious matter. Unfortunately, the crisis caused by the coronary epidemic has also affected higher education, and I can tell you the three main points in which we see how it affects it. Point 1 is clinical exercises, i.e. health students, medical, dental, maternity, nursing, physiotherapies, etc., which cannot proceed. The second case is the practical exercises to which you are referring now, which unfortunately cannot be completed. The problem is greater, as you rightly say, for senior students who have to complete their training this year to get their degree, as it is prerequisite for them to do so, especially in multitechnical departments. Another case is the students who have to go to pharmacies, special schools, business, to complete their studies. There is another category: those who have to make educational trips, for example, geology students, in mines so that they can complete their studies. Finally, we also have a major practical problem with students of physical education departments. In fact, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that physics students, as well as doing tele-education, cannot replace the track or practice. In this context we have been, since the beginning of January, in constant contact with the expert committee, asking for solutions to these problems. The expert committee was negative in the first place. For what? Because students have a characteristic: While it is the group that has the smallest problem in terms of mortality, fortunately, for the coronary, it is at the same time the group, which transmits the coronary to a greater extent, if one is a symptomatic patient. That is why they did not want mobility in universities, transport from one place to another. I shall, however, continue in my dentistry, so that the President does not yell at me, to say specifically what measures we have taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u71	Minister, it honors you that you recognize the great problem that exists. I am disappointed, however, by the answer you have given, in that for so long, while you know that this is a major issue, that smart solutions cannot be found in order not to smack all these people and not to leave them behind in their evolution. I heard a record that no one can disagree with in Greece too, you know, in the records we are all stars. But I was expecting at least of you, who know your sensitivities, to hear an apology because it is absurd for the Ministry itself not to try to find alternatives, even for one accusation from these children. Because they must continue their lives, whether going out on the labour market or seeking for themselves something better by doing a postgraduate. I didn't hear apologies for the seniors. Why do you know what's going on? We say so, but in the eyes of children it is something they cannot understand, that is to say, how it is possible that there should not be 2021 by specialists in the year, the possibility of very much personal responsibility and that they should be able to be included in all those who in some special way and the Committee of Experts and some ministries are giving solutions. You know what's going on? These seniors, after all, when you come to announce the ponds and the chronic students, you will have them in the same category, and it is not their responsibility. I shall also refer to the Greek families. We ask for common sense solutions, Minister. We cannot have asked you questions from the day you started, from January, to have the universities themselves deposited letters trying to facilitate the Ministry, giving a prospect, with their own responsibility, of having children and doing workshops and doing nothing. It's already too late, Minister, and you know better than me that academic time is running and doesn't allow anyone to wait. It's gone six months in the spring, ends Junis whatever extensions you give. What do you have to say to these seniors? Let me say one last thing. I listened to you in an interview to say that university regularity has been returning since September. I'll tell you, as your students would have told you, "hail our plateau"! So it is, because this time is time lost by postgraduate, time lost by seeking a better perspective on the labour market and they feel trapped and trapped. After the apology that has not been heard, I expect you to tell me some thoughts, so that we can give an answer to the agony primarily of the children, but also of the Greek family, because in these times we all feel trapped. Smart proposals we want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, thank you very much and thank you for the apologies note. You're absolutely right. We owe all these children an apology, not only the children of the university, but the children of the primary school, the high school, who stay in the house to protect their elders. It is extremely important what is being done. I have little kids, and I see what's going on. They're heroes when at the age of fifteen, sixteen, seventeen have been left for two or three months, just because they have a grandparent, some grandma to protect and don't go out to play. All of us owe an apology to these children, and of course we owe them an apology to what's in college. From there on, you referred to the four questions that have been raised by the Opposition. I can show you the dozens of messages I've received. You know the media and social media allow you to contact a lot of people who send out countless messages. Dozens or hundreds of messages I have received, expressing this despair of children. I am reading you from a last message, in which someone very strongly asked me what is going on and I said to him - I reacted spontaneously - "Do you think I wish to cut your practical exercise? Why would I do that? I have some kind of evil to do that”? I have to accept the experts' proposals. I would also like the universities to be open and not to be called either you or anyone else. Every day, however, we count seventy, eighty, hundred dead. That is something we need to take into account. Unfortunately, I think we are working in war situations. What measures have we taken? When we saw - because this counts - that, for objective reasons, the proposals for the universities to be able to operate, on 31 March, which stipulates what is going on in the practice of students and in the first and second cycles of HEIs, if they were a short period of time, 25% of the total time, so that the department can decide whether their studies have been completed. We have also given them the opportunity to decide in such cases what will happen. We have asked the Committee of Experts and are discussing today, for once, the question of the practical exercise of senior officials. Their situation is really tragic, but, I repeat, it is war conditions in which we live. We have also made some decisions relating to students in the health sector. Their vaccination has gone ahead. While first it was only for the sixth year, now we have passed both in fifth and fourth years and look to see how they can integrate, help and learn from these conditions. I hope that very soon, we will be able to open these schools, with the help of self-diagnostic tests too. The intention of the Ministry is to give an extension of the time it takes, so as not to be lost in half of these children for practice and clinical exercises. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u74	Next is the second question with number 4570/25-2-2021 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "In the air hundreds of thousands of TEI graduates without work, professional rights and no procedures for matching their diplomas with the diplomas of corresponding or related parts of the Universities". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in Greece for many years post-training technological education has worked in various forms, levels and levels. With Law 1404/1983, which was recommended by Apostle Kaklamanis as Minister of Education, the technological educational institutions of TEI are founded as higher education institutions. Law 2916/2001 makes it quite clear that the technological education provided through TEIs is now at the highest level. LEIs are part of higher education institutions. In particular, it is a case of this. (Officials — Action for annulment — Action for damages — Action for damages) (Full Court) 2916/2001 expressly provides: Higher education in Greece consists of two parallel areas. First, the university sector, which includes universities, polytechnics and the High School of Fine Arts, and secondly, the technology sector, which includes the technological educational establishments. The legal status of the TEIs, after being highered by the law mentioned above, is characterised by a constant path of simulation with the other higher education institutions. Both Law 3549/2007 and Law 4009/2011, laws of different governments, and other legislative interventions from time to time have never given rise to the maximum nature of the TEI. The SYRIZA government came in between the arrangements it introduced into education, absorbed the TEIs. He practically disappeared higher technology education, without providing for a procedure of parity or other matters, which left them in the air. One of these negative consequences is that in the air tens of thousands of graduates were found, without occupational rights, without academic correspondence. According to ELSTAT's figures, between 2001 and 2006 the graduates of the country's higher education institutions amount to two hundred and seventy thousand, while according to ELSTAT, the total number from their establishment in 1983 is about four hundred thousand. As you can see, this is a very serious matter. What we are asking you to do, Minister, because in the recent law that took number 4363 you did not provide for any arrangements to resolve the major problem, even though we have also raised it, but also as an opposition when SYRIZA introduced these laws, it is immediately for you to establish, after dialogue with institutions and scientific associations of graduates, the procedures for matching university departments with the respective departments and diplomas of TEIs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u76	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, you must apply for students the principle of equal treatment, without obstacles to access to the new university departments and without conditions of the N+2 after completing the study programme of the former TEIs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. Looking at the history of these legislation, it is a fact that the PASOK governments are linked to most of them. Although I do not belong to the PASOK area - as I know - I never belonged to you, I must admit that you were careful in your speech whenever moves were made. I will give two examples. When the pedagogical departments were founded in 1982 as university departments and therefore joined the highest level of education and the pedagogical academies were abolished, you have arranged a teaching that would cover the void for those who had finished the Pedagogical Academies by then. When the High School of Agriculture, the High School of Industry, Panteion, as was then called or the ASAEE, as we have often called it, ceased to be schools and became universities, this did not create a problem because it did not change their character, direction and mission, as they were already university institutions. What do we got here? We have a series of laws on SYRIZA that completely dismantle the higher technical education, one night they carry people to universities or they say "stay where you are, at the TEI", without any provision for their rights. The situation is not tragic in some cases. They are those TEI students who chose to stay at the TEIs and complete their studies, while the part in which they belonged was converted into something quite different. These people now have no opportunity to complete their studies, because they have no teachers to teach these lessons. I'm going to give a parentheses at this point. There will be legislation in the next few days, so that we can deal with the issue of the coronary in relation to the graduates of the TEIs. They had to complete their studies by the end of this semester. Because of a coronary, this cannot be done, because there are problems with practical exercises etc. There will be a regulation that will deal with this problem immediately. In my dentistry, I shall return to the issue of these rights, Mr President, so that we can keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. The issue I raised concerns a total of four hundred thousand people. Of course it is more timely or more fresh - to say it better - for the two hundred and sixty-nine, as I mentioned, according to ELSTAT's figures and even more time-consuming and immediate for those who were studying during the period of these violent changes, which took place during the previous government. But, Minister, you should bear in mind, along with the recognition of the establishment of higher technical education, that in 1983 any question of the grade at which the TEIs were set up at the time by Law 1404/1983 has ended. In 2001, also under the law of Petros Efthymios, the issue was resolved definitively in relation to the level - higher technical education institutions - belonging to the higher education technology sector. This in itself had to be taken into account by the previous government when absorbing TEIs or abolishing and moving on to matching. Because, as you said, many sections are with a different name or character. What is the matching of departments, but also of men and graduates? We have graduates who need to touch somewhere. I would say, for the time being - I see my colleague now - that there was the School of Electrical Engineering in the Polytechnics. It happened after mechanics, other than electricians. People didn't stay in the air. They match their degrees. I say this with a simple example. So that's not happening. So we must now, as long as there is a pan-Hellenic coordination - there are the engineer associations, the ETUC, the geopolitics, the other professions, medical, social studies - come into dialogue to see this serious issue. I will present the proposal to you - it is a very serious job - to match diplomas with the diplomas of the university departments which are the coordinating body. I will present the proposal from the Athens and Piraeus TEI, which is now at the University of Western Attica, so that you can enter into dialogue with them. We will insist, we will not leave it. This is a very serious matter. We are also interested in the political prehistory, which you have mentioned, and because of the fact that the life of technological education in Greece has been violently ended by the previous government, to see how we are going to resolve and remove this outstandingity, which is there and makes hostages four hundred thousand people. I will also present them to you together with a decision of the University of West Attica to set up a committee to study the matter. I believe that we have a good follow-up along the way for a dialogue aimed at addressing the problem. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u82	The spokesman for the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. It is stated in recital 4610/2019 that the provisions of Article 257 introduce a new procedure for the award of professional rights to graduates of technical engineering in proportion to the procedure laid down in Article 29 of Law 4439/2016, which resulted in a Presidential Decree regulating the profession of diplomat engineer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u84	Don't tell me about the engineers. I have a question for the engineers next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u85	So I stop saying and sitting. I'm kidding. Well, the procedure provided for in Article 257 has begun. The relevant Ministry, which runs it, is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and in this context the professional rights will be discussed. Let me clarify here: You referred to the Law of Peter Happiness of 2001. It was a brave law, which definitively ended the subject of technological higher education. Unfortunately, a so-called charitable government, the SYRIZA government, completely abolished technological higher education in the country. It is our duty to reinstate this sector, which is lacking in higher education, with four years of university study, with the aim of applied sciences and arts. In this way and we will offer the Greek society, because the children who are going to study in these departments will not face the range of unemployment to the same extent as the other children, who are currently studying in these departments, who do not know what rights they give, and at the same time, we will be able in a body that has only a head to give them hands. This will be done through the sections of applied sciences and arts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u86	Mr Tsakloglu, Mr Besiropoulos has made a request, because he must be in the committee before you. It's incidentally the same congressman, so it's the same for the congressman. So let's go to the eleventh, under number 689-12-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To be attributed to the municipalities of Heraklion and Maleviziou, the parts of the land-based port area corresponding to them". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I have today raised the question of the current question, Minister, on a very serious issue of concern to the citizens and the Municipality of Heraklion and the Municipality of Malevizi and also to Crete, because it is also about the Venetian Port, as we have heard before, but also about the land-based port area corresponding to the two municipalities, Malevizios and Heraklion. During the debate we had on 19 March, you made a commitment that the Venetian Port would be excluded from the forthcoming concession and I consider your commitment to be in force. Mr Placiotakis reiterated this on 1 April. It doesn't make any difference to the April Day. His statement shall be considered to be sincere. However, the non-existence in the declaration of a clear commitment to the exclusion of the port - which rather allows a private person to resolve the issue during the negotiations in order to sign the contract - has again created a concern. However, we have the main issue of the terrestrial port areas. The terrestrial port now for the port of Heraklion in Linoperama, in an area that is far from where the port is, has no sense of belonging to the port. It must be part of the municipality responsible for the development perspective of the place. We should finally see that the problems of underdevelopment in certain regions are due to the fact that a public body has until now, private from tomorrow, responsibility for an area under the responsibility of a municipality. It's not meant to continue to be the zone. So the request is also by decision of the Mélevizé Mélévizée City Council - I will present the entire decision, which is unanimous - to grant the use of the port area to the municipality, to integrate it into the development perspective and, of course, any revenue from contributions and fees to be collected from the municipality now. The same decision has been made by the Municipality of Heraklion for its own area, as far as Venetian Port is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u88	Good, understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u89	We are one of the most consistent, Mr President, thank you. Answers I'm waiting, Minister. Mr. President, as long as people do at the front, I'm doing both of them, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u90	Yeah, you know that. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, a month ago I answered almost the same questions you have raised in your question. It is assumed that the area of Venetian Port is not included in the use. This must be made clear. I repeat it once again. There is also the relevant proposal of the technical advisers of the HICP. From there on, there is a specific institutional and regulatory framework for the issues of the terrestrial and maritime port. I shall therefore refer to how the situation has been established for the port of Heraklion. In 2001, the government, that is, the PASOK government, converted the Port Fund Heraklion to a public utility company called the Port Authority Heraklion S.A. In the case of Law 2932/2001, provision was made for a contract between the Greek State and the public limited company Organisation of Port Authority of Heraklion to grant the right to use and exploit buildings, land, port projects and other facilities located in the port area. The use and operation of the premises and the generally land included in the port zone shall be owned by the port administration and operation organisation. It followed on January 31, 2003 - again in the PASOK government - the signing of a concession between the Greek State and the Organisation of Ports of Heraklion S.A., which was ratified by the Government of SYRIZA with Law 4597/2019. We therefore have a specific framework that has been created and evolved since 2001. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] From there on, in the Venetian Port area, which is a single monumental complex and is included in the land zone of the port, including the port and its bottom, the prosperous and obedient mortar, the Venetian Fortress Kules and the complexes of the Eastern and Western Neorians, tanks and warehouses with the ancient dock. In fact, the Venetian Fortress is organized and visited archaeological site. It is therefore clear that it is protected by Law 3028/2002 of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u92	Minister, thank you. Good morning. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are making it easier for me to do so, because you have referred to the institutional framework of the Port Authority of Heraklion and to the possibility of granting or co-existing with the private sector for the provision of services inside the port. This is very important and is different from selling 51% of the company’s shares. It's a completely different thing, another perception. One is partnership with the private sector, but in the public interest and under the umbrella of the public sector, while the other is a public concession to the private sector. It is precisely because, in fact, the second is the promotion of the concession, the question of the Venetian Port in Heraklion and the proposal and decision of the City Council of Heraklion, which will come to you officially in the next few days - I hope - is the Venetian Port and its surrounding area regarding the adjacent facilities, whether of the marina or of other facilities, except the archaeological sites, which are, anyway, at the Ministry of Culture, assigned to the Municipality of Heraklion in order to establish a Municipal Port Fund for the Venetian Port. That's the one thing. The second issue is the large area of land, which is outside Heraklion Port. It has a property, that is the port that is too many kilometres away. It's like a colony. The port of Heraklion has a colony in Linoperama. And what's he doing? He's collecting a capital tax. I am saying this with this expression because it has nothing to do with collecting fees from the City of Maleviziou, which do not correspond to it and - most importantly - this area is not part of the development planning of the municipality, because it is not the municipality that can do anything about it, because they belong to the port of Heraklion. So we are clearly calling, apart from the Venetian Port and the surrounding area, for the possibility of setting up a Municipal Port Fund or a land port area, as happened here in Attica. Excuse me, weren't it here in Attica attributed to municipalities in land areas? They've been rendered. What is the Municipality of Heraklion and the Municipality of Malevizio? Disgusting? We therefore want you to study the matter. We don't want you to make a decision without studying. Obviously. Study it, consider the demands of the two municipalities and if a cost-benefit study for the public and local society shows you that it is better to stay in the underdeveloped situation, because just because the port has no interest in the Linoprams or elsewhere except to get some fees or if the interest of the local society from this study shows that it can have a benefit for citizens, for the place and for the public in general, if it joins the municipal development plan, make the right decision. This is what we ask you to do, discuss and decide on the basis of both the public interest and the demand of the two municipalities, to give their region a new development perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, I think I was very clear about what has to do with the Venetian Port. I must also mention that the port area of Heraklion, where antiquities have been identified and excavation work has been carried out and that is what it means. Therefore, it is clear that any concession of the real estate of the Port Authority of Heraklion S.A. it may not include the ancient port, monuments or areas covered by the protection of the archaeological law. Of course, this is legally binding on the HICP. Any utilization will proceed on the basis of the existing legislation and its limitations. The TIADED since April 2, with an invitation to show interest, launched the competitive process to sell a major package of the Heraklion Port Authority. The invitation clearly provides that the exact perimeter of the concession area will be determined in the second phase of the competitive process in close cooperation with the Greek State. The possibility of a programme contract between the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Agency for the Port of Heraklion S.A. is also being considered. and the Municipality of Heraklion for the development and promotion of, among other things, the Venetian Port. With regard to the return of percentage from the receipts of the Port Authority of Heraklion S.A. It should be noted that, in accordance with the provisions in force, the revenues of the port administration and operation bodies such as the Port Authority of Heraklion S.A. are in return for the construction, maintenance and improvement of port facilities and port services, with a view to the smooth operation of the port. Thank you and thank the colleague who gave me the order because I have a committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Veyropoulos. Be well! Let's go to the next eighth, under number 688/124/2021, the second time question from the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "These are still reductions in supplementary pensions, which are not provided for in the legislative framework." Mr. Kegeroglu, let's get started. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question in a few words, Minister, concerns sixty thousand supplementary pensions issued following requests made from 1-1-2015 and then very reduced in relation to what was required, because some reductions have been illegally incorporated. To make this simpler, in the process of issuing these supplementary pensions, the reductions provided for by the Katrugalos Act, Law No.4387, and by the 2006 Petrala Act, if I remember, Law No.3655, have been applied. But there's an illegal karabinat. The law that imposed reductions said that these reductions, because they are large, will not include the previous ones, will not add the previous ones. This is why Article 96 of Law No4387 has been definitively repealed and they could not be applied here. In other words, the practice followed is that we are making the reductions of Petrala, we are also doing Katrugalos. This possibility for the law of Petelia has been abolished. We have sixty thousand pensions with illegal reductions. I would like to see whether there has been any determination on the part of the services, if you accept that there is a question, to see how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u99	However, the only time that has been observed today is me, Mr President. Mr Kaklamanis said so before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u100	Congratulations. I'll pass it on to the President of Parliament. Mr Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u101	However, to be honest, I too have noticed, because very often Mr Kegeroglu asks me questions, he does keeps the time. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, in reply, I would like, first of all, to set the institutional framework and the spirit of supplementary insurance and, consequently, the definition of supplementary pensions. The supplementary pension is complementary to the main pension, with a view to enhancing the income of insured persons when the insurance risk of old age, disability or death occurs. Given this complementarity, supplementary pensions are and remain the second part of compulsory social security under Article 22(5) of the Constitution. Admittedly, I would mention that supplementary pensions are an almost exclusively Greek originality. When they saw the consequences of demographic risk and the possible weakness of the main pensions in the distribution system to provide a satisfactory standard of living for pensioners, the other countries, and developed and developed, proceeded to the creation or strengthening of additional capitalisation insurance. We have opted for the creation of an ancillary supply insurance, increasing demographic risk even further. This, moreover, is one of the main reasons for the reform of subsidiary insurance, which is seeking a bill which will soon be submitted to the House. In order to return to the previous, in the spirit of paragraph 5 of Article 22 of the Constitution, the conditions for retirement for supplementary pension are in line with those of the main insurance, i.e. members of the subsidiary insurance sector are entitled to an supplementary pension if they establish an equivalent pension entitlement to their main insurance institution and have met the conditions laid down in the legislation. Moreover, both the main and subsidiary insurance are of a distribution nature, i.e. workers' contributions finance the pensions of the current pensioners, as I have said before. The last decade's interventions aimed both to ensure the sustainability of the insurance system and to reduce transfers from the budget. I would like, here, to remind you that nearly EUR 300 billion has been transferred over the past 20 years from the budget to support the insurance system, which in practice demonstrates the solidarity of society with its older members. However, let us be honest, this lacked resources from other sectors of the economy, whether we are talking about areas of social policy or investment that would accelerate the pace of economic growth. That philosophy I mentioned earlier continues to govern our pension system and the same principles, and the same logic applies to both main and subsidiary insurance. In particular, for subsidiary insurance, I would like to point out that pursuant to Article 96 of L.4387/2016, the supplementary pension is calculated on the basis of demographic data, the rate of substitution and the contributions paid. In addition, for subsidiary insurance, the automatic balancing mechanism has been introduced according to which the income of the fund, i.e. employee contributions, should be equal to its costs, i.e. all supplementary pensions paid. In the event that the income is higher, the assets of the ancillary insurance sector shall be liquidated. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President. It follows from the above that the uniform and indivisible nature of the redistributive system, which requires interventions in the main pension to have similar characteristics to interventions in the subsidiary. In conclusion, I would like to point out that an insurance system should also be governed by the principle of equality, both of horizontal equality, namely equal treatment of similar cases and vertical equality, that is to say different treatment of anonymous cases. In accordance with the principle of vertical equality, it would be unfair to receive the same pension for two citizens with similar historical contributions, when the former retired at a relatively young age, and the second at a high age and therefore expected to receive a pension for much less than the first. In other words, it would not be fair to grant the same pension amount to pensioners with different pension conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, apart from the words 'associated pension' and the fact that my question was on supplementary pensions, the rest do not seem to have anything to do with the question. It is possible that the report on the new bill you will bring us on supplementary pensions, but we will discuss it at the time. I do not want to go into the debate on the new supplementary pension system now. Well, at least I didn't have such a conversation. I ask you a specific question and a complaint. The complaint is very serious. There are illegal reductions in the period of the previous government, or I should like to say it better, supplementary pensions, which incorporate reductions that are not provided for by law in cases where the main pension is issued with reduced years or which are disabled. These two cases relate to sixty thousand. I'm making this serious complaint to you. The other part will discuss it when the law on supplementary pension comes. To some people you are right, to others it is a matter of political choice and we will react, but I certainly hope - at least - there will be a serious debate. But here we have a specific problem. The Petroleum Act regulating the issue of reductions in supplementary pensions was replaced and repealed with regard to the relevant provisions of Law No.4387 proposed by Mr Katrugalos and even by Article 96. So the practice followed by those who issue the pensions is, after making the reductions according to the Petrol Act, to make the reductions, according to the Katrugalos law, which is different in form and perception. The reductions in the Katrugalo law are different, which is why the previous ones have been abolished. Otherwise, he would say the simple thing: I increase the reductions made by the law of Stone and I make them a little more. He didn't have that idea. He did them on a different basis. So this illegality must be stopped. This illegality, unfortunately, has begun to lead again to the legal thousands of pensioners. I will also tell you the following as regards the abolition of the Petroleum Act, which is not taken into account for the extradition of an assistant: if there is a question that has been abolished and in force, in the view of your services or even yours, I must tell you that these provisions of the Petroleum Act do not concern those who have received a disability pension. It's not about them. It is therefore clear that a practice - badly - is followed that, if the main pension were to be reduced, the subsidiary was also proportionally reduced. However, this reduction in the subsidiary had, as I have said, been legislated by the 145 of Law No3655/2008, which has been abolished and should therefore not be implemented. So what I want you to do is to have a meeting with the Ministry, call on the Insurance Directorate, invite the relevant managers of the addresses involved in supplementary pensions and put them down, because sixty thousand people cannot be led, because of the wrong interpretation of the laws by the agency, to the lawyers to find their point. You can be sure that I won't let that go, I will go ahead because it's a lot of people and it's even unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Here, Mr Tsakloglu, you have the floor for three minutes for your denunciation of Mr Kegeroglu's serious complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u105	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, the current pension rules are based more widely on two areas, firstly, in the field of fundamental provisions and, secondly, on the method of calculating pensions. These are two distinct fields, which should be taken into account separately in our debate. In fact, the basis for the calculation of pensions is not what you mentioned, the Petroleum Law, is Article 41 of Law 4052/2012. This article speaks clearly about aligning the basic right to the main pension with that of the subsidiary. As regards the second part, that is to say the calculation, this is initially described in Article 42, i.e. the next part of Law 4052/2012. This article provides that for insured persons who apply for retirement from 1-1-2015 onwards, the amount of the supplementary pension consists of the sum of two instalments. The first concerns the period of insurance up to the end of 2014 and is calculated with a specific rate of substitution — 0.45 % per year on pension remuneration — and the second relates to the period of insurance from 1-1-2015 onwards, calculated in accordance with the rules of fair capitalisation. Article 96 of L.4387/2016, to which you referred, replacing the above article, submitted a new uniform method of calculating the subsidiary by maintaining its separation into two parts, before and after 1-1-2015. However, it did not change the conditions for a full pension or a reduced pension. Therefore, early retirement and early retirement imply a different pension, since there are different conditions and conditions for entitlement to a pension. This principle should obviously also apply to the main pension, but also to the subsidiary. We must move to the logic that there must be a balance between benefits and contributions. Apart from all this, however, I would like to raise a final point: the whole misunderstanding about the question of calculating supplementary pensions is not accidental, it is evident from the bad way of legislating and administering the legislation chosen by the previous government, particularly in the field of social security. The Katorugalou law, in my view, rightly provided for the integration of the insurance funds, but something which was not actually promoted during the three years when the SYRIZA government remained in power after the resolution of No.4387. The operational, operational and institutional integration did not go far enough and the result was that different funds would operate under different rules of contributions and benefits under the same umbrella, namely that of the ECA. At the same time, the previous leadership of the Ministry of Labour preferred to legislate in a completely wrong way. Who was that? It was that of the circulars. Trying to respond to the complexity, which she herself created, she considered the solution to be the continuous issue of circulars, trying to interpret the Katorugalos law. If a better and more complete way of legislating was chosen, issues such as what you put to your question would either not be tolerated or to a very limited extent. At this point I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Labour will shortly sign a programme agreement to codify insurance legislation - initially administrative and then legislative - which is very important for the simplification and smooth functioning of our insurance system. With this we intend to deal with the problems that we have inherited from some bad past practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to the next, in the fifth, with number 671/9-4-2021, a top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Finally the constant re-thinking of the abused minors". Mr Arseni, good morning! You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, contrary to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified in 1992, against the optional Protocol on the Rights of the Child, on the marketing of children, child prostitution, pornography and other provisions, against the integrated Directive 29/2012 on the establishment of minimum standards on rights, support and protection of victims of crime, against the 'House of the Child', against the ratification and application of the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and abuse, and against the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor of September 2020, we have an inconceivable situation in Greece, where children - victims of sexual and other abuse are again and again abused. These children are redeemed, as they must repeat the description of their history almost fourteen times - fourteen times! - forensics and police officers, for hearings, interrogation and preliminary interrogation. This "harassment" is repeated fourteen times! What would solve everything we are violating is that the complaint should take place once. The complaint should be recorded once and everyone else should be able to use it. The complaint should therefore be made once in an appropriate place and by appropriate people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Government has not advanced the "Homes of the Child", these suitablely designed spaces, has not proceeded with the establishment of this one and a single testimonial of forty minutes by appropriate staff. On this point, I would like to close, Mr President, by referring to the testimony of Mrs Sophia Bekatore. Mrs. Sofia Bekaterou, a man who has fought and won them, tells us about her recent complaint: "I had to relive this fact from the beginning, so that there would be a chance that the license might be removed and the man who raped me might be out of sports space. Then I was sick, the nightmares came back. And whoever hasn't lived that, can't understand what it means to flirt at any time with depression. Even adults can't handle this either. All victims say that if they knew what they would experience, they would not have made the complaint." Let the victims have dignity in their complaint, let them in practice make their complaint! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The Deputy Minister of Justice will answer Mr. George Kotsiras. Mr. Kotsira, good morning! You have the floor for three minutes for your prototype. I should like to point out here that, as I read, the victims of the instrument are also being followed. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u109	Good morning and thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, Mr Arsenis, with regard to the question you have tabled, and I am sure that, as I understand it, the 'Homes of the Child' and their working procedures, I would like to make it clear first of all that any issue concerning the protection of incompetence is dealt with by the Ministry of Justice with increased responsibility, sensitivity and great attention. And I think this is a timeless common goal that we all have to serve. However, I have to say that our country in 2019 at the European Commission's 'Scoreboard' on the 'Political Justice in Children' issue was in the last positions. So, in this context, we are really trying to strengthen both the substance and the process of the wider issue. The “Homes of the Child” were provided by law of 2017, which was incomplete and therefore provided for a regulatory provision for their operation. This ministerial decision, signed in June 2019, also has essential problems in the field of procedure, is not fully in line with European directives and international models. In response to the Minister of Justice's staff letter to the "Citizens' Counselor" it is stated that the delay in the operation of the "States of the Child" is due to the lengthy procedures for their normal housing and equipment, the major issues of organisational malfunction and, in particular, the non-management of the services in question at a particular address or part of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has already begun the process of institutional change for the wider context in order to actually function in a proper way. Despite the failures, we must also inform you and the House of the problems of the existing legal framework and until it has been rationalised at the points where it is suffering from and in need of improvements and modifications, a great effort has been made to regulate technical details and to deal with practical difficulties already identified and reported by the Secretary-General to the Citizens' Counselor. And abrupt of this effort is that in recent briefings that I had from the SAA. With regard to the "Home of the Child" of Athens, the process has been completed and its renovation and approval of the equipment needed in order to be able to function smoothly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Just a moment, Mr President. Because I referred to the organisational malfunctions which were a key point for the problem, the change in the Agency of the Ministry of Justice, where after January 2021, the "Children's Houses" now belonged to the Department of Support Functions of the Justice Department of the Department of Human Resources and the Organisation of the Directorate-General for Economic and Administrative Services. I therefore believe that the changes that the Prime Minister has also mentioned in the Criminal Code should also be stressed. I have seen that you have referred to a more general framework for dealing with the protection of minority, which should also relate to the substance of criminal provisions that protect minority, and this has been discussed in the Criminal Code that will be in place, where there will be significant changes based on key axes. In addition, we will be able to strengthen with the actions that I have told you a problematic framework that existed, in order to improve it, to solve technical difficulties and organisational malfunctions, so that we can go to the next framework, in fact, the deposit of minors into a status of protection and confidentiality. So these are the so far references to the "Home of the Child" and the actions that have been taken. In my dentistry, I will also analyse further initiatives in the wider topic that you have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm going to go on with the description. First of all, Greece is not just the "Home of the Child". Greece has a huge issue with compliance with international protocols to handle incapacitation. We are out of the international context when it comes to handling minors, let alone abused minors. The Counsel denounces that the absence of a system to ensure the protection of the personal data of minors in judicial proceedings also allows the media to disclose their personal data and details of their abuse, making them identifiable with a further burden on their mentality. I have also heard the Minister's replies to the debates on the 'Home of the Child'. The Minister cannot claim that two years later the law had a problem and that is why it has not been implemented. It's not possible. It really shows an impulse that you're calling on to explain to us why it exists. Why in rented "Home of the Child" have you not moved in? Why don't you go ahead with simplification, compulsory procedure, based on international standards, for one child interview, forty-five minutes? At the moment, we can also tell the citizens who are listening to us what is happening. These kids are going to GAAP to interview. Have you been to the GDR? Is it a suitable environment to go to a abused child, feel security and give his statement? Is it possible to discuss this? We need directly to involve specialist psychologists, social workers, not the Directorate-General for Security at Attica. That's obvious! It's not a question of suppression, the interview of the child who's been abused. We have specific complaints from the Counselor and the prosecutors who have previously dealt with the issues of minors about how the procedure is being done, that they refuse the fact of abuse itself by means of the way in which the procedure is being done. They make them prove their abuse. They must prove that these children are not elephants. We have to come a little bit to 2021. We cannot deal with the issue of violence in children by re-thinking, with methods which I cannot even mention at what time they correspond. In fact, it's not possible for two years to tell us that the law still has gaps. You've brought urgent laws, you've dissolved C.E.T.A., you've dissolved things that were foundations and were working properly and standards. Can't you bring, since it was the law wrong, a law to fix this? Obviously, it's not your priority. We demand that it be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Mr. Kotsira, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr Colleagues, you probably did not hear my answer, because you reiterated the very thing you said in your prototype. I told you that it was not just a matter of legal and organisational framework - which was an essential problem that inherited us the legal framework and we are trying to resolve it for the common objective - but that there were essential procedures for building infrastructure, technical malfunctions and with a great effort from the "Home of the Child" of Athens, within a very short period of time, according to the information we have, completed its work and will be ready to work. With regard to the wider themes you mentioned about the country's international obligations, I foretold that, based on the figures in 2019, we are in the last place of the European Union. That is why there is no need for selective sensitivity if it is not demonstrated by pragmatic policy events on how to protect minority, because that is not a matter of reasons, but of projects. Let's see what changes the 2019 Criminal Code brought. We will correct them and we will be able to achieve the common objective, as I said before, because I do not question the sensitivity of anyone. We, as Ministry of Justice, have recently ensured our participation in the initiative taken by the Council of Europe on 'Consultation with children in the process of building a new Council of Europe - a strategy for the rights of children 2022-2027'. We are ten countries in the Council of Europe that are actively involved in this process, and we show that we are actively confronting the next day's framework and the international fora to protect the rights of the child. It's a constant effort. Our country has already begun to participate in this institution. We are working for the first time and will soon be ready to present a national action plan on the rights of the child, which will have the contributions from too many ministries, because you realise, Mr Arsenis, that it is not a point of view to addressing the protection of minority but requires cross-sectoral and horizontal actions. In this context, with a recent change in the framework, UNICEF spokesman was also added to the national mechanism for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of this action plan. Therefore, you realise that the effort that is being made is multi-level, is a change in the institutional framework that we inherited which was problematic, is dealing with organisational dysfunctions, which were resolved with the Organisation of the Ministry of Justice in 2021, technical and bureaucracy issues, but also building issues which were also incomplete and unresolved previously and resolved with a very great effort. Also, our country is taking such an active part in international fora for the future's policy, because this is an issue that really is here to stay and we are interested in it, and there is an absolute awareness of how we can manage it and leave no gap uncovered in the protection of abused minors. And it is this government that opened this debate, that is the government that gave the space, to have these complaints and to be able to see where there is dystomia and where we can intervene, as I said before, at the level of the substance of the Criminal Code, which is a very important part, and in the deposit procedure, which you referred to, which is also referred to by the 'Homes of the Child', which unfortunately were found in a legal context, which was, in fact, just a name and there was nothing from behind. We shall proceed with that and we shall resolve it. Every day we overcome malfunctions and problems. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that such a serious issue, which is indeed a very sensitive social aspect, is an essential priority for the Ministry of Justice, in contrast - and I say again - with the country's recorded results in previous years. Because I believe that the objective is common, we will all do our utmost to improve the framework and solve the malfunctioning and functioning of the 'Children' Houses', even with this problematic context, so that we will gradually improve it both at the material and procedural level. It is a sensitive issue, no micro-party confrontation, no ministerial decisions a month before the elections and no code changes a month before the elections. The delegated decision was on 10-2019, I remind you, Mr Arseni. I therefore believe that the broader issue will be managed and improved by the situation and the protection of minors at the level of law and the protection of minors at the level of procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u114	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arsenis will remain in his place, because the next question is his. Next is the ninth under number 678-12-24-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in the National Park of Rodopi Mountains and in the Delta of Evros". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes for the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, it was really a matter of time since you moved on to permits for wind parks in national parks and parks or in the virgin forest that you would reach the Evros Delta. It was a given fact that that's where the story was going. Here we now have the Rhodope National Mountain Park, with seven areas of NATURA 2000, two areas that have been classified as preserved monuments of nature, seven wildlife shelters, three areas that have been characterised by the Council of Europe as biogenetic reserves and have been given next to the Levadite waterfall, which is in the park and is, of course, a symbol, the point - if you like - where the world goes and visits and comes in contact with the park, surround it up and down with wind turbines. Also, you go to offshore wind turbines from Alexandroupolis to the delta of Evros, and even within the wider area of Dadia we have wind turbines that have applied for. In particular, they are thirty-four applications, which will not even need to be examined, because under the Hatzidakis Act, the August 2020 ministerial decision, is under 10 MW and will not be passed on to environmental licensing. In practice, it will be with their well-known responsible statement. We are talking about the area where we have the black man, which is not only a species that is threatened - its population is falling and its reproductive population is decreasing - but it is also a species that we have mapped and studied for many decades. We know exactly where he's nesting, exactly where he's moving. The organisations and the WWF and the management bodies have proposed exclusion zones, and you go and fit into the exclusion zones, within SPAs, that is, areas for protection of ornithona. Two hundred and fifty - six wind turbines have already been installed in the area, a hundred sixty - four inside the SPA. Exclusion zones have been included in the European Union guidelines and you ignore them, you do not care. We had five incidents in 2018-2019 with wind turbine predators: two black and white, a sea-eagle, a vortex and an eagle. And these because they had transmitters and we tracked them. Too many more, we haven't spotted them and we'll never find them. The scientific study of 2017 states that conflict mortality will increase eight to ten times in the future by obtaining permissions to install wind turbines in both Greece and Bulgaria. With the'salamation' you are going on, you are even authorizing them without permission. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You don't control the cumulative effects. We were condemned by the European Court of Justice for NATURA. We are in a reasoned opinion at the precursor of the European Court of Justice on winds at NATURA. And you go ahead, unscathed. You are turning our country into a clear anti-European country, into a scapegoat with the total destruction of the species and habitats that are protected throughout Europe. So what else are you gonna do? Please stop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u116	The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Tagara, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I am aware of your sensitivity, because we have referred several times to the issues you have raised today. A horizontal reference to the big picture I want to make and I will then come in detail on the issues that you specifically raised. We want, because of the European directive and our own sensitivity and will - I am referring to politically - to increase the share of participation from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption. In fact, with the last national energy and climate plan, this figure is up to 35%. That's the target for 2030. Not uncontrollably. The way you mentioned it seemed like everything was allowed everywhere. It's not like that. There may be a lot of applications, but the permits are limited and the conditions laid down for the adequacy areas for the development of wind parks are specific. With regard to the sensitive areas you mentioned, I would like to say that there are prohibitions on wind parks in specific areas such as those mentioned for example. It is not permitted in areas of absolute nature protection. It is not permitted for nuclei of national parks of preached monuments, aesthetic forests. Priority habitats shall not be allowed. In the NATURA 2000 areas, there is no control over what everyone wants. This procedure shall be submitted for the installation to be duly assessed in accordance with Article 10 of Law 4014/2011. It shall be authorised only if it does not cause adverse effects on the species and habitats of integrity of the protected area. With regard to the orphan species mentioned, I would like to tell you that especially for the special protection zones beyond all else, apart from the specific ecological study that is prerequisite together with the environmental impact study, to obtain approval, a specific ornithological study is drafted in accordance with the conditions laid down and with the direction of the nature and biodiversity of the Ministry of the Environment. So, not everything is done uncontrolled and without a crisis. As far as the specific point you refer to is concerned, no production permit or producer certificate is in force in the wider area of the Rhodope national mountain park. As far as the area you referred to, in the Levadite waterfall, I would like to tell you that it had been granted to a company. I have her evidence, but it doesn't make any sense to report. You'll understand why. However, this licence for a producer granted today does not exist because it has ceased as a result of the non-payment of the maintenance fee. So there is no question in the Levadite waterfall position. As regards the planning issues to which you referred, because I do not want to spend time, I will stop here. I shall return, Mr President, to my dentistry, even more focused and specific on the remarks made by my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, for Levadite, I would like you to make it clear whether he is covered by the last amendment tabled yesterday in the bill on the extension of time that they can use the production permit. What could you do? You say the targets are too high. We invite you to overcome the goals with a program "I save at home" for all households, which will reduce consumption and at the same time install wind on roofs. The European Commission in 2019, with a detailed study of free spaces in Greece through satellite imaging, tells us that we can install - without impact on the natural ecosystem, without the disappearance of the species that we see in Evros - photovoltaics and, in addition to today, overcome 33% of energy consumption, without taking into account the decrease in consumption from "I save home". Why don't you do it? Why don't you put this on the Recovery Fund? Obviously, that's where the money would go to the small, medium-sized and households, while you want to subsidize the very big companies. You tell us that there are standards and laws and that there are distances. The carrying capacity is not respected in Evia by the spatial planning of the RES. Distances from settlements, distances from traditional settlements, distances from monuments are not respected in Kythira. So, the AIA spatial planning has deleted it. You don't have management studies. Scientists have not defined the zones, because you have not completed the institutional framework for exclusion zones. And continue to be located in areas that will be excluded, then a holiday, of course. The blockade zones of the Management Body in Dadia are part of the 2021 European guidelines. Will you take them into account? What other institution do you want? In other words, we have the exclusion zones after thirty years of study - after transmitters to the endangered species which have shown us exactly where they nest, where they feed, where they move - and you do not take them into account. What else will you have to do? This is a humiliation. If you want to stop the complete destruction of habitats and species - because that is where we are driving, as no protection status is stopped - you need to change radically. You will have to stop the wind license at NATURA, in my opinion and outside of NATURA, to go where there is no impact on the natural ecosystem and we want to protect the climate crisis, to go to the rooftops of people, to have these revenues, to have the small and medium-sized ones involved in the construction of these photovoltaics and to save the houses, and to see the whole wind turbines regime from the beginning, with social participation, planning and, of course, knowing what the protected object is in the Natura areas. We must be fair to the European directive. We are currently the scapegoats of Europe, an anti-European country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Here, Mr Tagaras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you again, Mr President. My dear colleague, it is a great idea to continue with it and I will come back in particular. You are aware of the Special Spatial Plan on Renewable Energy Sources which has been in force since 2008. Today, it is under way to revise it in stricter terms and with priorities to achieve the objective, a goal which, according to 35%, we want to achieve - participation by renewable energy sources in 2030, we are talking about 9 GW energy production from renewable energy sources, 90% of this production will come from wind parks and photovoltaics. We can achieve this, without having to go everywhere, especially in sensitive areas like those mentioned. The framework, which will be shaped by amending the framework, which is under way, will be stricter, I have told you since the last time, because you have asked me before. This will be done in connection with specific environmental studies, which, perhaps in a year or so, will be completed. These specific studies are carried out in the protected areas where they will identify uses, as well as prohibitions on sensitive areas, such as protected areas, and will enter priorities for achieving the target for 2030. I say this as a horizontal reference, saying that the uses envisaged by specific environmental studies are uses that take precedence over all other uses, all other designs that are currently evolving, including local urban plans and special urban plans. That is why it is crucial to refer also to a Presidential Decree at the end for legal certainty, but also to guarantee all the things we are discussing today. Because you have referred to it, let me tell you that there are texts. Soon there will be a matching of the texts. You mentioned distances from settlements, from sensitive areas, from cultural monuments. These are provided for by the 2008 Special Spatial Spatial Framework and I said that they will still be tightened up, they are not random. Because it is recorded in your question something I had told your previous question about Kythiras, today the manufacturer's certificate issued by RAE does not mean that it will automatically take the authorisation. Because I have told you and I repeat that this is ultimately the case in environmental licensing, where, together with the environmental licensing study and the decision to approve environmental conditions, prerequisites are the control of the placement by the relevant directorate of the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, by other agencies such as the Natural Environment and Biodiversity Directorate of the Ministry of the Environment. All this is being evaluated and there it is finally decided whether one will go further on licensing and licensing. Until then, no application is safe. That is why I said in introductory terms that there are many applications, at the end of which, but only a short while, the restrictions, which are more secure and more limited with priorities for achieving the objective, will be even more restrictive in order to protect all the places that you want, but we also want to protect. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u122	We move to the third with number 674/10-4-2021 a topical question for a second question by MP B1' North Athens Section of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Implementation of government planning for the enhancement of the air cables of the Greek Network Manager for Electricity (DEDEE)". Mr. Loverdo, I'm glad to see you. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. The joy is corresponding, be well. Minister, my experience makes me say that after every phenomenon of a natural disaster with a strong journalistic interest and accompanying a strong political interest, measures are announced that are rarely observed and at 100% the timetables are rarely respected. When the devastation took place in Galachi and New Heraklion from that tornado phenomenon, which struck in an angle and in the opposite corner did not strike, I was surprised that the weeks, months and the record of damages had passed, in order to compensate people, had not taken place. I am going to come back to this, because I think it has not yet been done. But the news interest in this, because the disaster was limited, was not intense. With "Medea" it was most intense. Your Minister, Mr. Skrekas, came out and spoke about substituting PPC cables. This has been reintroduced, but we all know that in Greece - and I say again - the timetables are not respected, nor the promises are respected, when the journalistic interest passes and the lens of publicity leaves. I asked Mr Skreka about a month and a half ago, and I told him that I would ask him every month, which I do. Let's go see an account now before I get to the wires. The subject of the cables will be raised by our discussion in my dentistry. The branches that have been cut, the trees that have broken throughout my region, but mainly in Dionysus, but also in Kifisia, Kalis, Nea Eritrea, Maroussi and New Heraklion, are many. Are they together? Oh, no. Absolutely not? I couldn't say it, it would be wrong overreact. What's going on? Here or there, on various plots, accumulate the trees and branches, and I have the impression - I do not think I am mistaken - that if these branches are dried up, the risk of the fire will concern residential areas, to a very large extent. Second, what else is going on? As road cleansing is delayed, various people who fall, take and cut to the torso to use them for any commercial purpose they want and remain the branches broken down in the streets. Finally - I conclude with this - compensation for disasters has not been given to businesses or private individuals, and the reason given is that snowfall is not recorded at the causes of the disaster, and it must be said that an interpretative circular, which has not yet been issued, must be issued. Ask Mayor Dionysus. He'll give you the picture completely if you don't have it exactly as a ministry. So, before we get to the great task of subjugation, I am standing in the day-to-day work of cleaning the municipalities from the consequences of the snowfall and I want you to give us, not only adequate answers related to your moods, but adequate answers and timetables for what is to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Amyras, good morning. You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u125	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Dear Mr Loverdo, we are here on a rare occasion, as you have said, where after a disaster to do what is originally announced, this is the case. I, too, leave the subjugation of the cables to answer my dentistry - once you put it - and I will tell you about the branches and fallen torso of trees, left behind by the naturality of 'Medea'. I'll talk to you as the Ministry of the Environment. We talked to Dionysus City, since you mentioned him. I contacted the Mayor, with the Municipality of Oropo, with northern Evia, with the Municipality of Istia. These three communications, the three appeals we had at the Ministry of the Environment, where the mayors were asked to make some funds to clean up the fallen branches, etc. We have explained to them, of course, that the Ministry of the Environment is not making money to the municipalities. It must be done differently. It is the Ministry of Interior which has the power to finance the municipalities. However, we have indicated how they can seek money and funds for the cleaning of forests or peri-urban areas, salts. We have agreed and contacted these three municipalities, since you mentioned them as well, with the Region of Attica, but also with the Region of Central Greece, and we tell them what the emergency funds from which some funds can be requested. At the same time, if we are to be sure that these municipalities that lifted the heavy burden of disasters from the "Medea" will also be able to enter the forests and clean them up, we have indicated how they can ask for money from us, that is to say, to address a request to the local forests, the forests will then send to us, the Directorate-General for Forests and Natural Environment, each request, and we will immediately entrust studies. Because that can't be done, you know, without studying. One has to get in, see what the forest is, how it will be opened - if it opens - temporary way to pass the machinery. You remember, after "Medea" or the days of "Medea", that destruction, there was an issue of how the machines will get in from which side. We're talking about forest areas. We have therefore indicated and fully identified the municipal authorities, which have addressed us, the Ministry of the Environment, the way in which they draw resources there, but also in what systematic way they will clean up land, forests, or peri-urban algae and algae. So, I talked to you about your branches. I expect you to say that the cables are subjugated and I will give you the answers you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Loverdo, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u127	I want to be very strict, based on what you said, I answer. I want to predict how I see George Amyras, who I appreciate from the time when I met him as a biker, as a municipal councillor, then as a MP of another party, then as a MP in the same party and now as a minister. Minister, I appreciate you unlimitedly and we have found ourselves from the same line, on the same side, on many fronts. I am now reminded of the conscientiousness that it was me and you who have lifted this terrible issue on our back for five years. So I appreciate you and don't get me wrong. But I've been slain about what you're saying. Understood, I have nothing personal. On the contrary, if I have anything personal, it's too positive. But I was darkened to hear the speech of state bureaucracy, studies, this ministry, the other ministry, the diarrhea, the beta, the gamma. And I know you do the same. You do not respect this kind of bureaucracy that is afflicting the world. I know that, I know you. That is why I did not expect you to come here and tell me 'the studies, the other ministries'. A politically responsible person with terrible sensitivity to the environment, like you, may go up to the bridge of Barumbas to see the branches and logs gathered there. Instead, they're home. If a fire works, people will be burnt. That's not all that's going on there. It happens in too many areas and also happens in neighborhoods. Here and there tossed branches and logs broken on small roads. Here or we will deal with a matter in time or if we burn later, forgive me. Apart from the political forgiveness that is indifferent, it is people's lives and property. Something has to be done here and now. Something must be done before Easter. Something has to be done before the weather is warmed up. Take it up, everybody, you're in the ministries that we're facing this problem because you're also the Secretary of State for the Environment and you're related to this. You may not be most competent, but you do. Let's go to the basement now. Mr President, subjugation is a huge and tremendously expensive project. If I remember correctly - because I have not brought the information I had in my previous speech in the House - it is close to 18.5 billion to take place all over the country. What the Ministry is talking about - Mr Skrekas and Mr Amyras - is 1% of the cables that need to be subjugated and for which there is a timetable by the end of 2021. So I'm asking about that 1%. What does 1% mean? If it becomes 1.5% positive, too, it is. Is that why 1% of the study was launched? When does it end? And will the project begin? For the areas at least mentioned above. Secondly, I said to Mr Skreka, and I repeat to you, that this is an opportunity now that such a large project will be done on such a large scale - I will embrace tourist areas in the country gradually, I mean - everything that is to be dug in to get in as a cable, as a fiber, as anything that needs to be done in any case, to be excavated, at the same time for everything. To make such a program, they need synergies. As synergies are difficult, our proposal - through Mr Manos's proposal, which comes from very far behind, and is subjugating everything at the same time - in relation to the body responsible for dealing with it is a proposal for a merger of two existing agencies, of the Agency, which concerns transport and the Agency, which concerns the other issues, urban and other issues, a common organisation of this kind, which will be able to undertake the major task, so that everything can be done together, at the same time, as regards excavations and subordination, if the word'subordination' stands. So I'm generalizing myself to cover all of this, and I'm specialising again in covering my region. When are we going to start and what integration plan is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u128	Mr George Amyras has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Loverdo, I am not mistaken for what you said, because I know you. I realize we're all struggling for the best, but I'm going to reverse the question. You've been Minister to too many governments. So if you were the State Secretary for the Environment and a municipality asked you for money to collect the cables, what would you do? Wouldn't you tell the mayor the right procedure? Wouldn't you order the forest services like we did fast? Would you not say: do studies to clean up the forests, whether or not the mayors have asked you, as we did? What do you say? "I've been killed" for the institutions, "I've been killed" for the legal process, for the institutional process? I don't have you for that. You would try, as we do, to solve the problem by taking out the intermediates, but not by undermining the institutional function. So it's not possible for the Department of the Environment to make money to give a municipality. You can't do that. Would you sign such a decision? They'd take you inside after. Except that there would be no approval of this line. What we did, then, is: We have given orders to all the forests directly, quickly to make local studies, where there is or where there was a problem with "Media", so that we can facilitate local self-government quickly, to finance them to prevent, as you say, summer and yet greedy symptoms. Of course, we have it in our minds. So I'm sure you'd do the same. We have raised the phone to both the Ministry of the Interior and to the regions, and we have told them: speed up the procedures. Municipalities should not stay at home and residents should be vulnerable to any bad situation. So I think we're on the same page on this. Now, in connection with the substituting of the cables. This is a huge task. Greece, unfortunately, and at this point it is too far behind. We've got 180,000 miles of air cables. I'm going straight to the destination, because we're actually talking the same language, we're interested in the essence. Summer and perhaps even before summer, now, this year, grounding processes begin. How? For the speed with which you and me and all of us want to see this work being done, we will continue the contractors who are already doing projects for the TEN. They will also be given this extra procedure and work to proceed immediately with subjugation. I'm just saying. In the summer the bulldozers are digging to subjugate the wires. So we do not "fly the can below". We are dealing with problems, that is what we are doing. That is why we are in line with the work of substituting cables in the Recovery Fund. First of all, let us say: how much is the cost of this subjugation, Mr President? It exceeds EUR 3.5 billion. In a decade's depth, at least, it will have to end with the digitisation of the whole project. They don't do this from one moment to the next. Everything that didn't happen in forty years now, we put it in front of it, to get it done immediately and quickly. Let us see what the three categories of immediate priority are: firstly, like you - I am sure - you agree and the President is fully aware, our first priority is to subjugate cables that pass through the forests. It is very important that we do not have fires, that we do not have what we have been living every year for too many decades. The second is to subjugate the cables and we will do it - I say that in the summer we are starting - in settlements and areas of cities with dense vegetation so that we do not find ourselves in the face of bad weather phenomena of the 'Medea' and the next aftermath of disasters. Third category is traditional settlements, mountain traditional settlements, like islands, for aesthetic reasons. So, in relation to what Minister Skrekas said to you and your previous topical question, we are quite clear and remain exactly what Minister Skrekas had said in reply, that in the summer the work of subordination is beginning. As I told you, the builders of existing projects will also undertake this work. Since 2022, for a five-year period most grounding projects will have been completed, thanks to the financial support of the Recovery Fund. So we see the problems in the face, Mr President. It's 'nearing'. In an introductory word. You go to Germany and you don't see a cable. You go to other European countries and you don't see a cable. You're going to the islands - to see from the Cyclades, Mr. Syrmalene - you're going to the wonderful Cyclades and instead of seeing the sea, you see the cables. We're prioritising all this and we're going to do it. We will do so immediately and quickly, because this also requires our common sense, but also our own sensitivity to the environment and to the safety of the electricity network. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdo, good luck all the time. Let's go to the next, which is the seventh under number 672/9-4-2021 topical question for the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Forest Papers questions in the Cyclades". Mr. Symphony, good morning. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the issue of forest maps and the unfinished problems that have arisen, which are obviously affecting the whole country, but also affecting the Cyclades in a particular way. I'll explain. At this time and after the forest maps were posted, the inhabitants of the Cyclades are in great disruption because of huge problems that emerged with the suspension of forest maps. Here is the main and brief problem: on the one hand, there is the need to speed up the great reform of forest maps, a reform which you violently stirred up and canceled by Article 48 of Mr.4685 of Mr. Hatzidakis last year with the famous environmentalist law, while 45% had been ratified at country level and 55% of the forest maps had been posted. On the other hand, there is a risk of confiscation of private property, since, firstly, the presumption of ownership, which is explicitly provided for in Article 62 of Law 998/1979 for Cyclades and for a number of other areas, islands of the North Aegean, Crete, Kythera, Ionian Islands, etc. is not guaranteed. Secondly, it has not been clarified whether or not the vegetarians are or are not wooded. In order to resolve these issues, on 13-5-2019 last year, there was a decision by Deputy Minister Socrates Famelou, who is currently in the Chamber, on the acceptance of the opinion of the Technical Council for Forestry. It specified that land that is or has up to 15% forest or forest vegetation is characterized by grassland. This decision came out on 13-5-2019. You didn't consider it. You made a decision now. I saw a very same decision the day before yesterday on the basis of the Technical Council for Forestry of the Ministry of the Environment. And I ask you: Firstly, you have shown that a decision of this kind has now been taken, and it has been in place for two years now. Secondly, you did not apply it to the posting of forest maps, which you posted, after the law of Mr Hatzidakis abolished the already posted and ratified maps. We, therefore, because precisely these issues were raised in a very acute manner, tabled two amendments, one in October and one in March. None of these amendments were accepted, and indeed your predecessor, Mr Tagaras, said to us in October that the problem would be solved by the end of 2020. The problem has not been solved and it is now in an acute state. There are too many of our islands in Cyclades where even part of the settlements is characterised as a forest area. Unbelievable things. The world is a resurrection. You gave an oral extension, yet the order hasn't passed, I guess you'll pass it. After your meeting with the Prime Minister, you said: we will give an extension for six months. This extension shows exactly the sloppiness and distortions that have occurred, after you have abolished the previous validated and uploaded forest maps. So you have rushed to post you this year, like maps and you have been in these problems. You are now forced to declare an extension of six months. The question is, because I have spent both minutes, firstly, what are you going to do to solve the problem of the designation of vegetarians and, secondly, what are you going to do to solve the problem, as we proposed by order again the Deputy Minister on 31-5-2019. I'll tell you in my denture what it included. We have proposed that these issues be resolved, to which the relevant associations of the Cyclades, the Association of Engineers and the Association of Architects had agreed. We are therefore waiting for answers to these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras, will answer. Mr. Amyra, you have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, my dear Mr Symphony, in some things I agree with you, on some of the issues I disagree with. Who do I agree with? In what you said, problems have arisen, of course, with the experience of SYRIZA, with the laws of SYRIZA and the procedure for the suspension and ratification of forest maps. You said there were problems with the suspension of forest maps. That's right, you said it. The forest maps are not the cause of the problem. The forest maps are the lifting of the carpet, under which unsolved or unresolved problems have been hidden for decades. Only in southern Evia, in southern Karysia, that is, we identified problems of land designation and property, which occur in 1831. If you have your God! In Crete, many of the issues that have now emerged thanks to the suspension of forest maps go back to 1855. What do I mean? I want to say that while forest maps are a project of national importance - of course, national importance - since it will enable us to see where the forest is at last in this country, so that we can protect it and where there is no forest, so that we can free property rights and rights of use, exploitation, etc. These lands by the citizens, unfortunately, for decades, have been steadfast and plunged. What am I gonna disagree with you? I'll argue you're saying there's been a rough job. It's not a rough job at all. Not a rough job! We are proud that, finally, we have stirred forest maps for 100% of the Greek territory. This is a huge step forward and thanks to this post, Mr Symmoleni, we can identify where the problems exist and solve them. How are we gonna solve them? We will resolve them in this way: you have made a mistake. You said that the decision of my dear colleague - who is present in the Chamber, Mr Famelou, on orchestras, which has accepted, in other words, the opinion of the Technical Council of Forests that we are now repeating the same. Oh, no. There is another decision on towers, another decision I signed this morning, on the white people. Other kinds of vegetation are towers and other kinds of asphalt. I therefore accepted the unanimous opinion of the Technical Council for Forestry, according to which whiteheads and towers cannot, in their presence, characterise an area of forest. The common sense says that, Mr President, this goes without saying. It can't be that the torch or the whitehead can't be characterized as a forest. I don't decide because I'm the expert. Oh, no. We heard the experts. It is the experts who also gave their opinion on SYRIZA to the then Deputy Minister that towers cannot be identified as forests. We have heard the experts now, who unanimously gave their opinion that they are not forested either. With this ministerial decision, which I signed today and has the power of law, they are released by a rocky one by a nightmare of thousands of land owners in Cyclades, Mani, Crete and islands of the Dodecanese. So we're taking a step forward. That is why the extension was needed. Speaking of extensions, Mr. Syrmalene, perhaps you won't remember, I will tell you that five extensions had been made on Syriza, if I'm not mistaken. Therefore, prolongation is not the issue. The important thing is that we change the doctrine, our government changes the doctrine, and the citizen will not run to prove that he is not an elephant. Public administration endogenously and automatically will solve any problems, any errors and any failures there are in the uploaded forest maps and then the citizen will, if any, submit his objection. I still need a minute, Mr President. Also, on the property issues that you have told me, we have set up a working group of brilliant minds in our Ministry in the prefecture, which are prominent lawyers, are top-secret scientists, but also marketmen, namely scholars, topographers, engineers, who are studying all these issues and we have almost all the legislative arrangements to solve the enormous problems that exist, as I have told you, Mr President, go back to 1831 and from now on. The rest I will tell you in my dentext, to tell you what issues we will always talk about, of course, in line with the case law of the Council of State and the Ice Branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. Mr. Symphony, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u135	You are right to say that you have posted the maps right now throughout the country, and you have rightly signed and signed this decision for the white-handed one. The question, however, which comes in is, firstly, after decades, the SYRIZA government, which has started all this serious and great reform - a cut-off for the country along with the register and you have come and dismantled with Article 48 of Law 4685 all this case so far on the grounds that there were a hundred seventy-seven thousand objections. I'm sorry, these hundred seventy-seven thousand concerned only 2% of the posted maps. So there was no reason to stop this process and start over again. Secondly, in the post you made you did not take into account the decision on the vegetation of the Technical Forests Council, which took place in April 2019 and was ratified in May 2019. I shall present this decision to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Felmelou, in the Minutes. You did not take into account and described as "forests" a number of areas of forestry vegetation, which should not be described as "forests at the moment". The third issue, with regard to ownership, is this: First of all, property existed in 998/1979 for the Cyclades region, because of historical reasons of Turkish sovereignty, as the property regime of the Cyclades developed and a number of other regions. However, while we have brought you an amendment which was precisely the provision which I have been telling you and which the scientific bodies of the Cyclades have supported - it is the May 2019 provision, which has not been voted on, because then the elections were held - you are ignoring it, while you say that you want to solve the problem. This provision also deals with the issue of lawnmowers and the question of property. So the question is: Why? Are you afraid to say that you are taking SYRIZA's device and making it yours? That's the problem with this government, that what has happened in the past, he thinks he's in oblivion. All SYRIZA's work, from the first day until the last time we were a government, you demolish it an article to an article and everything you're familiar with, you familiarize yourself by changing his name. That's what you're doing. Be bold and support these very provisions brought by the Ministry of Environment and Energy in May 2019 and did not have time to make a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Mr Amyras has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Symmoleni, I would ask you too to be courageous and also to recognise the great and great effort made by the public administration - let the government if it does not take you to speak of the government, let us talk about the public administration - so that we have this work of national importance at last on his feet. Mr President, it is regrettable that Greece is the last country in Europe with no forest maps, no tariff, no land register. And is it that we've reached 2021, and we still have unsolved problems in 1831, 1855, as I told you, or 1940 then? It's time to solve it. I don't tidy anybody's effort. My Mr. Famelos had asked here in the Chamber a timely question a couple of months ago. We talked about forest maps and I said that I recognize that you made an effort. I am sorry to say, of course, that this attempt has had huge problems, it has been rough and unfortunately - there is no unfortunately or happily in it - your law has actually been brought down by the Council of State. As long as, for the hundreds of seventy-five thousand objections, we do not call them so undeclared. Do you realize that a hundred and seventy-five thousand Greek and Greek women should go to the forests on your day and submit their objections, because they had another view or other evidence as to whether or not their field, land, land or forest legislation? Is that a little thing, a hundred and seventy-five thousand people being at risk in terms of their ownership? You're telling me we're here with environmental law.4685, to put a stop to your own law. We did well because we had to correct the bad texts of this law and, after all, to harmonize ourselves with the decision of the Council of State. We don't legislate in vacant. We follow the Constitution, follow the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the laws. So I say to you: is it a little something that, because of your law of five hundred thousand farmers, half a million farmers, for two years in 2018 and 2019, their subsidies have been frozen? What are you talking about? So thanks to Law 4685-2020, we have come and corrected all these issues, all these bad texts. And I ask you: should the public administration not incorporate the legal evidence in the forest maps, the legal acts of the administration? I would like to mention, for example, approved orbital plans, urban plans, which you have had outside! For example, Mr President, here in West Athens, the square of Aigelo with the walls was wooded! So, shouldn't we do anything? Should we take the bulldozers and tear down Eagleau? Funny things. To conclude, three are the major, the fundamental problems which have arisen at the time of the forest maps being posted. Firstly, it is the outdated former forests, which, through legal acts of the administration, were either provisionally or permanently granted to people to cultivate them, for example in the 1920s in refugees after the Asia Minor disaster. The Greek state - where there was a Greek order - granted lots. Don't we know that? The descendants of these people, one century later, are exposed and repentant as to whether what the state itself granted it as a field, exists or does not exist in their possession, ownership, in their use. One thing, then, is the outdated ones. Secondly, they are the forested fields, my grandfather's field, your own President, his ancestors, who cultivated it in the 1930s, in the '40s, in the 50s, in the '60s, and at some point he abandoned it either because he had to emigrate abroad or because of the police department going to a nearby town in his village, and this field unfortunately or happily - but this is nature - filled with bushes. So, will we let the field be described as a 'forest' when the original, legal, administrative act, was a 'farf'? Aren't we going to return him because of the fryers and the vulture in its original use? Oh, no! The third problem, the huge, the labyrinthian, what no one really dared to touch - but we touch it and look at it in the face and solve it - is the property regime. Depending on the way in which a region of Greece was incorporated into the Greek state, whether by means of a treaty or by means of a convention or by means of integration, satellite or non-Islands, that is to say, those which were incorporated into the Greek state for each of the cases mentioned to you, Mr President, and my dear colleagues, we have different elements and criteria of ownership status. So we are dealing with this, as I have said, with the prominent team of legal, forestry, engineering and human beings by region and from the Cyclades, and we have people who would help in this work of the working group and we will provide legislative solutions. We will bring them here, and I hope you will also, of course, always vote in harmony - I stress it - with the decisions and case law of the Council of State, the Ice Bay. I conclude with that, Mr President, and I am sorry that I have had a long time. There's no luck with the forest arsonists and the trespassers. None! It's over! What we are going to do is to ensure the protection of the forest as a natural resource, as the Constitution demands, and at the same time to fully guarantee the legitimate rights of landowners, farmers, farmers and farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too. Mr. Symphony, good luck all the time. The third question under number 4335/18-2-2021 will now be discussed by Members of Parliament's Questions - Questions by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The New Democracy Government implements policies to the detriment of small and medium-sized projects RES, energy communities and energy democracy, against the European institutional framework". Mr. Famelle, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology. Don't take me to the previous question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u139	It can't be, Mr. President. It was mentioned in my name, unfortunately. Good morning, everyone. Mr Amyras, for your bad luck, I am present because I have a question on a very critical issue about energy communities and because you speak in this House, regardless of the presence of mine, you should not say such tragic and disgusting lies. Mr Amyras, unfortunately for you - but thankfully for the Greek society - no farmer's subsidy was called into question in 2018 and 2019. Now the question of the introduction of the Farm Charter to Law 4685-2020 and to forest maps is in the Council of State and pending. Don't say too much! In Mr Armaleniou's question, why did you not introduce the Ministerial Decision on Tobacco Lands in the uploaded forest maps, you did not answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u140	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u141	In Mr Armarleniou's question about the ownership of vegetarians, which was resolved by a double vote of Members of the SYRIZA, you did not answer. But I, Mr Amyras, because I have a question and I respect both the President and the Greek Parliament, I suggest you come to Parliament. Seventy-two SYRIZA Members have tabled a timely question and you and we will have all the time to discuss it. For, Mr Amyras, what you said, the Prime Minister and Mr Skrekas have been denying you, admitted the mistakes of the New Democracy, stopped the post for six months. We expect to hear how you solve them. And you have admitted your mistakes as Mr. Skrekas admitted them to Rethymnon and Chania and Heraklion and Lassithi. Stop the lies you're emitting! The government has accepted that it made the wrong suspension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u142	Let's go to your question!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u143	We'll use science to solve the problems, but not with such lies, not with such a fall of politics. Mr President, the question we have put forty-four of a SYRIZA MP on 18 February has not been answered and therefore comes to plenary. On the subject of energy communities and energy democracy, Mr Screkas also did not come. Mr Amyras, whoever is a State Secretary, is in charge of answering, but on the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u144	That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Amyras, I'm talking about political ethics. I don't doubt you're here. Please, you will give your opinion. Obviously, Mr. Screkas who has the power portfolio had to be here. Mr Amyras may be institutionally, but he does not have the political responsibility. So we have to discuss a very critical issue and stay on that, Mr Amyras, because we really need to come to the House on forest maps in another time. We have policies, Mr President, at the expense of small renewable energy projects and energy communities systematically from New Democracy for about twenty months. It violates the European institutional framework which commands us to support the energy communities - there is a European directive - and it favours only a small group of very large companies - what we call 'large' - but very large companies in the renewable energy projects - but it fully strengthens the communities and energy democracy, what we call'social entrepreneurship'. Examples: New Democracy, Mr. and Mr. State Secretary, Law 4513/2018, the Energy Communities Act. So when New Democracy takes over the government, it legislates against its vote and leads to a loss of priority for the energy communities from joining the networks. It was the law - it says Europe too - that we should help the energy communities quickly connect to the electricity grid. The new Republic is abolishing it, contrary to its vote and with the European directive. Secondly, while there is a ready-to-date financial instrument in the PAENEC - EUR 25 million, I think - to finance the energy communities - it was already published by the SYRIZA Government - it freezes it for twenty months and comes with L.4759/2020, Mr. Hatzidakis's so-called'spatial' - which, after him, Mr. Hatzidakis left and left problems in both the maps and planning and energy - and obliges the energy communities to participate in competitive procedures, i.e. the co-operatives of the villages, the countryside, the producers and businessmen of Greece. It creates a retroactive obligation to amend its recommendation in energy communities. We made how and how as Greece to create a pioneer law and voted for it in 2018. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, Mr President, I will close to waiting for Mr Amyras' reply - it comes with Law No 4759/20, the same spatial law, with an amendment that lasted for a moment, to give a month's deadlines to close the small RES projects the obligations of their applications for the conditions of association. Of course, it has not been retrospectively, that is, it has put small projects, as if individual projects, into competitions. He hasn't come and said it too many times, and that's why we're asking the question. That is why we wanted a written answer, Mr Amyras. We don't want to embarrass you with all these open issues. I understand it's a lot. However, we have done so in writing, Mr President. It's not our fault the government didn't answer. We ask: When will you set the limits for competitive procedures? First theme. Secondly, when will you make the platform for the small projects that you have announced? Thirdly, with regard to PV roofs, Mr Amyras, is it possible for small photovoltaic roof projects, which a household got on a loan to balance with its current, to put an additional charisma on it in the last few days of 2020, which is about one month's revenue? Now imagine from the one-year loan to cut off from the household a month ago while the other one's a little bit of a little bit of a backbone in the recession in the pandemic and pays the photovoltaic on his roof. So people ask if you will probably give the opportunity to erase this charm, at least in the small photovoltaic roofs, which are too wrongly. Will you give them that possibility? That's why you've spoken a dozen times! We have been filled with promises, such as that of increasing the limit - I think it is now at 6 KW - that will go further and, secondly, that you will enable them with some incentive to consume themselves, to have 'Net Metering', which may have other activities, such as farmers. These are just things, but there are also great injustices, Mr. Amyras. So let us stay in the communities and in the small RES projects and on the other issue, please, whenever you want to talk about it in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u146	The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Georgios Amyras. Mr. Amyuras, you have a minute at your disposal to answer if you wish to answer the previous question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Of course I will. First of all, Mr Famele, I would say that you need to find out what "strength of ways" and "institutional function". I am not referring to the delicateness of ways towards me, but to your colleague, Mr Armalene. You have spent half the time of your position on another question to discuss the issues of forest maps. So, what do you want to tell us that Mr. Symblene was not sufficient in his place?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u148	I couldn't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Symphony, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u150	So, Mr Famele, coming as a parliamentary tail of your previous colleague from the same party does not honor you. You are not honored by Mr. Armachenius, i.e.!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u151	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Symphony, please! In violation of the Rules of Procedure, I gave the floor to both colleagues. Don't go too far. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u153	As far as I'm concerned, I don't care at all. Well, I answer you this: Mr. Famele, not only are you discerned into lying, but you are a fast-fashioned liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u154	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Symphony, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u156	You told us we'd stopped posting the forest maps. But you don't even know that? The reports of the forest maps were completed up to the last region of Greece, and what we did was to extend the deadline for submitting objections to citizens. Because we have pandemics and because we want the public administration to fall behind the issues that have arisen and correct them while you - remember me! - Why did you, not one, not two, not three, not four, but five extensions, when you had posted half, 50% of forest maps? So I'd tell you to get serious, because I'll remind you of the other one. Falsely and with crotos your law on forest maps has fallen! There's been a void, your law. And let your supposed study make forest maps that your law, Law No.4389/2016, was amended once by Law.4478/2017, second time by another law, Law No.4462/2017, third time by n. 4467/2017, fourth time with Law 4478/2017. Hey, on the fifth, you were burned, the Council of State came and framed the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Amyras, let's go to Mr. Famelou's question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u158	So, please, if you want to work together on a national issue, such as forest maps, we are willing, which we have proved, where we can, quite clearly, come to an agreement. But not populism in this Chamber! So I now come to the issues of renewable energy. In the bet of "energy democracy" the Mitsotakis government has set the cubit very high. So we in the Ministry of Environment and Energy are working to ensure that the energy transition is done in terms of social justice and transparency, because we are fully aware of the development dimension of the energy transformation of our society and already our Government has done a great deal. So let's go give you the specific answers. For a year and a half we have been implementing the National Plan on Energy and Climate, which is the main tool on which the country will step forward for the next decade. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In your first question, therefore, you say: 'It is well known, but also clear that the imposition of 6% of a one-off contribution...'. It is not a permanent reduction. It's for once. It will only apply for the year 2021 and will cover the 2020 turnover. We are working and will find and we are already planning and having almost ready the incentives we will give so that all green actions can be promoted, for the benefit, quite clearly, of the domestic economy and of social justice as well as of social justice. Already, roof photovoltaics are planned to develop a new installation programme for domestic use. We are working on the draft joint Ministerial Decision on photovoltaics, which will belong to natural persons and not professionals, with three basic principles, which will concern, firstly, photovoltaic systems for the production of energy injected into the network, which will be installed in properties throughout the whole territory. It will be allowed throughout the territory. Secondly, for the maximum power of photovoltaic systems per installation you asked me, we do not remain at the limit you mentioned a moment ago, i.e. 6 kW maximum power. We'll go up to 10 KW with maximum power. So, I imagine you're satisfied with this and you're going to support it. I would like at this point, because you made a gesture now, Mr Famele, and I didn't like that gesture...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u159	That's all I said, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u160	Now, don't count...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u161	In any case, the people who will put photovoltaics on their roof of 10 kW of growing power, as I have told you, will benefit 750 euros per year, with depreciation being achieved in about eight years. Make that gesture to these people. Let's go down. A prerequisite for the integration of a photovoltaic system into the programme will be an active household connection, i.e. provision of electricity for household use, in the name of the owner of the photovoltaic in the building where the system is installed. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. I will tell you about applications and reductions in compensation prices and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Here you go, Mr. Famele, you've got three minutes, and I hope we can catch the plane. We're flying at 16: 20, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u163	I'll call you, Mr. President, if you don't go on the plane. Mr. Amyras, we're coming back. Two are the issues that concern us today, and at least for the energy communities, I have not heard anything so far. So I repeat, Mr President, in order to be well-known to everyone, that, with various excuses for twenty months, the Government of New Democracy has been amending legislation to the detriment of the energy communities, in breach of the European directive. All parties and non-governmental organisations have pointed this out. So that we do not have any trouble here as to who is telling the truth and who is lying because Mr Amyras makes many such changes and films, Mr President, I am presenting the document 'Greenpeace', WWF, ELECTRA ENERGY' and RES cooperation for renewable energy sources. It is said by the 'Greenpeace', WWF. I don't think they're lying, Mr. Amyras. So what does it say? It says that the law of the Ministry of the Environment obliges all energy communities since 2022 to compete with private investors in tenders and this evolution abolishes the separation between communities and investors, abolishes any incentive to set up European communities by citizens and municipalities since the new year and is contrary to the European institutional framework. I read from within, Mr President, what the representative of GREENPEACE, Mr Takis Gregorios, says: 'If the Ministry believes even a word of what it says positively about energy communities, its energy and climate plan for the New Democracy, it should immediately withdraw this provision'. I put it to the Minutes, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] So some of you are indicted for hypocrisy and told that you don't even believe your own texts. It is quite simple, Mr President, that the Commission - and I shall put this to the vote on the Minutes - says in Article 22 of Directive 2018/2001 that there must be no barriers to communities and that there must be tools to facilitate access. There must be support for these social cooperative forms of energy production which create pluralism in the market. We have more businesses, therefore, and more green energy. The New Democracy comes and takes exactly the opposite measures. It's not just that you're stalling. Suspension, remove the priority association of funding and put them in competitions. Now are you saying you're going to make us an institutional framework? After 20 months, are you going backwards? This is reform but New Democracy. It's like we're going back to the Middle Ages, while there were communities and you voted for them in 2018. You're told by the big organizations, all the parties tell you. We therefore want a statement from you that there will be a priority association and that communities will be financed. It's simple. Now let's go talk about small projects. In small projects and in photovoltaics, Mr Amyras, we have tabled a first request to suspend the 6% sculpture for 2020. Yeah, it's for a year. But be careful. With the choices of the Government of New Democracy, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have bankrupt the RES account and you have put people who have photovoltaic roofs to pay your own deficit, your own damage! Doesn't it make sense to say, at least this household that has a photovoltaic on its roof not to pay Mr. Hatzidakis's mistake? Didn't that have a social character, Mr. President? So we are saying to suspend 6% of the 2020 engraving on PV roofs and we have asked you two specific questions, which are simply. We have asked, Mr Amyras, for an extension of 6 KW, which is why I made you the gesture - at 20 KW. You're telling me you're taking this to 10 KW. But the motion for a photovoltaic roofing is for 20 KW. Do you know what I asked you? I didn't tell you to stay at 6 KW. Mr President, see my first question from the Minutes. That's why I'm saying you didn't even hear what I told you. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The demand for home photovoltaics, individual and householders is to be upgraded by 20 KW - on their roof people will put them, they are not businessmen - and they are able to sell the surplus on the network so that they can get through because you have put them down and they have been carved. Just stuff, Mr. Amyras. Don't paraphrase what I'm saying. So please, again, because you did not respond to the first phase, can you answer these two? To strengthen the communities as the Commission and all the organisations say and not to engrave people with photovoltaic roofs so that we can make them homes at least sustainable? That's enough. You are destroying all other sectors of the economy. Let's help the roof photovoltaics at least. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Famele. Mr Amyras has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I am going directly to the energy communities and then I will give you an answer to the questions you have asked me and to applications for the installation of photovoltaic systems for how many property owners. The Ministry of Environment and Energy, therefore, taking into account the legal framework for the establishment and operation of energy communities, looks at all possible improvements which will enable their role to be strengthened, as well as the financing of projects implemented by them within the framework of their competences by the new NSRP, by the NSRP 2021-2027 programmes. With regard to the reductions in the prices of PVCs, I should like to say to you: the introduction of the measures, i.e. Law 4254/2014, was considered necessary because it brought about a two-tier fair balance: the previous over-performance regime was streamlined; on the other hand, the special account was balanced so that it would not be derailed - although it was derailed - its deficit. That is how it was allowed to continue. In summary, around EUR 3 billion was saved between 2014 and 2018, that is, annual savings amount to approximately EUR 500 million, a profit that is a permanent profit of the account. The main criterion for setting new prices was to ensure the viability and profitability of RES investments and the power and heat cogeneration system. Therefore, with the new prices - and this is the heart of my answer to what you asked me - they were guaranteed for PV stations on the average economic performance of the order of 13.5%. In the Ministry we are considering a draft law to fully reform the regulatory framework for energy communities. Two will be our criteria: firstly, the compatibility, of course, of the national framework with the European framework and the incorporation of directives and, secondly, the removal of the obstacles to solving the problems that arose in the application of your own law, Law 4513/2018. I now come to the subsidies for the installation of photovoltaics and the energy storage system through the 'Security' programme. There were thirty-seven thousand five hundred applications and a photovoltaic system was approved to be installed in three thousand five hundred real estate owners, about 10% of stakeholders. In addition, three hundred forty-eight applications for PV are included in a warehouse system. So, according to the evidence, no one would say that there is no interest in private. So that's what I had to answer and whenever you want to be here, we're here to give you the answers you need. I hope at some point that you too will recognize the mistakes of your own governance, because it was not a little - to say it elegantly - and to move forward in dealing with energy poverty. I would ask you, Mr President, to make a point to Mr Famello. This is the second time that it has made a disgraceful gesture, not to me - I do not care about'me', as a person, nor Mr Famelos, nor about what he himself has given up - but about the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u166	I don't know. I didn't look good. But all I see, Mr. Famele, is that before the Minister finishes, you get up and go. That's not right. When...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u167	He didn't even hear the answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u168	It's not right at all, and I'm leaving it to the judgement of what they see. Nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u169	He got out of the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u170	When you ask something, the Minister answers, you ask again, you must answer and - so at least we have all learned - to wait for the answer to be completed, to go to the next question and then, with your comfort, to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u172	I don't want to give anymore...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u173	I'm in the Chamber and I'm up to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u174	Inside the room, leaving? All right! As to another gesture, I didn't see anything, but to tell the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u175	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u176	Well, it's now over. I don't think it happened intentionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u177	I want it to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Famelle, don't give up. I saw you left. Now what do we do? Shall we do SADs? Oh, no. It's not right. You should have sat in your place...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u179	Aren't you allowed to stand up? I stood up. Is it forbidden to stand in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u180	...as the Minister and the Bureau have respected you, to complete his answer and nothing else. Well, we're moving on now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u181	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u182	You don't? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u183	I do not accept that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u184	What are you not accepting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u185	I respect you. I was standing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u186	He's up, but he's walking. So, I don't see?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u187	What's walking, Mr. President? I said something to Mr. Symblene, who was leaving. Is it forbidden?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u188	In any case, you have given your answer. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u190	Minister, this is now an end. Please don't go on with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u191	May I? I'll be refreshing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u192	I'll take the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I asked for the floor first. Why do you give him to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I want a minute. I'll be refreshing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u197	Follow the parliamentary procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u198	I don't understand, Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Femmelle, first of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u200	No, now I'll take the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I asked for a minute's speech. You're wrong, Mr. Femmel. I was talking. You've risen up, you've made a disgraceful move with your papers. You were talking to my dear colleague, Mr. Symmalene, and you were about to leave. So I told you that this behaviour is not a parliamentary one, how much more so when the Bureau showed enormous tolerance and gave you up to seven minutes to be seated while you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u202	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, it is not twice for me to take the floor. You took him away one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u204	So, if you respect the parliamentary procedure, you must be, Mr Famele, parliamentaryly decent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u206	That's what the Minister said, that's what he found out. You don't have to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u207	Please, I need the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u208	What do you want? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u209	Mr Amyras, Mr President, you are entitled within Parliament to speak your opinion. We do not, however, have to agree with you. Mr President, I would like to say that, without speaking in any way, without shouting, I have risen up from my position and made a move which deceives not offensive, not offensive gesture, the fact that you have objected to the opposition is my right, Mr Amyras. As I hear you, so will you listen to me. Mr President, I have not violated any parliamentary ethics, and I want this to be an end, because otherwise we are entering paths, such as that of the Member who is not able to make a move of indignation, such as this or arise from his position. Mr President, please. I have not offended Parliament. Let's end this. But I politically repudiated what you said, Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u210	Minister, I'd say don't go on. You're a minister now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u211	For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Famelos used to be Minister. I will most believe in good cooperation between you and the Greek people, who have chosen us to represent them. The opinions have been heard. I don't know what you want to fill in. I don't think he needs anything. I would recommend that you also come out of the Chamber to provide mutual explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Amyras, it's a disgrace to open my hands, isn't it? Can't I make such a move?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u214	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u215	So it's over. Well, good weekend to you guys you're leaving. We move on to the next three questions addressed to the Minister of Education. To these questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Makri. The first question will be discussed under number 666/8-4-2021 in the second cycle of Parliamentary Carditsa, New Democracy Mrs.Aminina Skondra, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Privatisation of High School Carditsa in Pan-Hellenic Examinations due to Janus' consequences". Mrs. Scottra has a problem. From your position, Mrs. Skondra, without a mask you can't speak. Get up to Stepma in order to take off the mask. But be about in the time you have to. Mrs. Scottra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Deputy Minister of Education and Religion, Mrs Zetta Makri, who is here today, to consider and discuss a subject that I have raised for a long time at our private meeting and concerns the possibility of quotating to the pan-Hellenic exams of the Third High School of Carditsa, due to the consequences of "Janu" as reflected in my timely question. Honorable Minister, it is well known that Carditsas Prefecture was almost completely affected by the floods of "Janu" on 18 and 19 September 2020. The consequences of this disaster, which hit our region just a week after the start of the school year, have led to the failure to carry out the training project smoothly. I am referring to factors such as the week 21-27 September which, by decision of the municipal authorities, because of the inappropriateness of the premises and the safety of pupils and teachers, did not work in the county. Too many school units have not worked for a long time, i.e. until material damage has been restored, and further delaying the return of pupils and teachers to the classes. Respectively, they remained closed for a long time and the prefecture schools, which help to train and prepare candidates. Hundreds of households suffered serious housing damage. Many days have remained without electricity, without water, while there have been serious problems with fixed and mobile telephony networks, which still exist over time. As a result, gaps are also created in subsequent online courses. The suspension of lifelong education in November followed, with any psychological burden and difficulties this entails for many students, who until the damage to their homes had to be housed in hotels or in relatives, i.e. away from their homes. Also, in February 2021 hours of teaching were again lost after the earthquake, which strongly affected many communities in Carditsa with repercussions on the student preparation program. The huge disasters have put our county in emergency for one year, until September 2021. The government's sensitivity to all my fellow citizens, who were invited to cope with this unprecedented difficult situation, has been recorded from the very beginning by the direct actions and the unprecedented financial support that has been provided for Cardinals and Cardinals. The support and measures which have relieved my fellow citizens are recognised by everyone and I express our gratitude for the speed and effectiveness that is clearly due to the determination of Prime Minister Kyriakou Mitsotakis. But, Minister, in addition to the financial support, we must turn our gaze and attention to the group of our young people, the students of the Third High School, who have for many months been giving their own special struggle with them and their families. The circumstances, which experienced, prevented them from attending equal opportunities with students in the rest of Greece the educational process and from focusing without hindrance on the preparation for the high requirements of the pan-Hellenic examinations and their introduction to the HEIs. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether measures are being taken to ensure that students in the third grade of Carditsa in the coming pan-ellad examinations receive a premium, that is to say, their exceptional admission to higher education, beyond the planned number of importers or bases, so that they can claim a place in the EITs of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, I tell you first of all that my support, the support of both the Minister and our ministry to the cardits of Carditsa is incomplete. They were affected by the theory of ‘Janu’ in September 2020, ‘Medea’ and the recent earthquake of 3 March 2021. You know very well that I have also had an on-the-spot perception of the damage that has been done. As far as your question is concerned, I would point out that according to the provisions of Article 42(4) of Law 4521/2018 and Article 68 of Law 4653/2020 the following apply: Students and students of the latter class and graduates and graduates of the general uniform high school and professional high school districts affected during the school year, due to natural disasters, such as catastrophic earthquakes and flooding, are introduced in excess of the number of importers in schools, departments and introductory directions of the HEI and the Highest Church Academy. This arrangement shall apply also to pupils and apprentices and graduates of GLPs and PSAs who are permanently resident in the areas referred to in the preceding subparagraph, even if they apply for membership in a high school in another region or in another secondary education address. This right applies only to those who apply for a declaration and participate in the first after the event pan-Hellenic examinations of the period of regular examination or to the pan-Hellenic examinations during which the incident occurred and is concerned with the introduction in the academic year concerned. The area must have been declared in an emergency of civil protection, as defined in Law 3013/2002. In this case, a decision of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs is required each time. This decision determines the specific rate, assigned on the basis of the number of persons affected, in relation to participants in the pan-Hellenic examinations by category of high school, GEL, PAEL, daily, citrus, not more than 2% per category. It shall also be regulated to the specific rate, any specific conditions for the selection, the relevant supporting documents, the selection procedure, and any other relevant matters. In any case, a condition for this choice is that candidates should have achieved a total number of molecules equal to at least 70% of the number of molecules achieved by their last class successes at that school or part of the same academic year. According to this, it is easily concluded that the current institutional framework adequately regulates the cases of the students of the latter class and the graduates of the general uniform high school and professional high school districts affected during the school year by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods. In fact, the specific issues are regulated by a ministerial decision issued after the pan-Hellenic examinations in September or October of the same year. I would remind you that such a ministerial decision was adopted on 5 October 2020 for the municipal district of Fanari - Parga and areas of the Municipality of Preveza affected by the earthquake of 21 March 2020. In particular, it was adopted under a number number F253.2/128348/A5 Ministerial Decision entitled ‘Definition of beneficiaries of a special rate for admission to higher education the academic year 2020-2021 of pupils and graduates of general and professional high school, regions affected by natural disasters and who applied for a declaration and participated in the first post-Greek examinations carried out in June 2020’. I would also like to conclude by pointing out, for your fullest information, that in Carditsa self-contained after the earthquake, the "Creative Infrastructures S.A." and the municipality's technical services and as many schools as stagnation problems have been detected or damaged arrays have carried out autopsies in order to deal with them quickly. In short, my colleague, the institutional framework exists. When the time comes and if it is decided that all the conditions of the law are met, then the decision will be adopted. I stress this, if there are any conditions, on time, then a decision will be taken. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u219	And we thank the Minister. Mrs Skondra has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you intend to help the children of Carditsa, so that they do not fall short of the entire Greek examinations and their claim to a place at TEIs and TEIs of the country and at higher schools, and at least compete with the other children of Greece. It is also known to everyone that the entire government stood next to the Karditsa affected in my prefecture and not only, hence the committees that came for the school buildings, as you mentioned above. It was quite clear to everyone that the disaster that we experienced there was biblical tension. We all know that, of course, much more than that, which, as a member of the Magnesia Parliament, has a very strong activity and information, you have an overall view of the problems - and I am glad that you are here today - and not just your prefecture, but the whole region of Thessaly. The consequences and difficulties created by this complex flooding situation, earthquakes, outbreaks without power, water and without the Internet, made almost impossible for our students to attend education and the process of attending their program, as they had predicted. The Carditsa children have actually experienced very bad conditions, in addition to the same difficult circumstances that the COVID pandemic has caused everywhere. In the meantime, Madam Secretary, since I tabled the question to date, we have been discussing it and sent a memorandum from all the mayors of my region to the Minister for Education, which assists the issue I put to you today. The same is apparent from the suggestion made by the Director of Secondary Education, which also mentions the need for a specific import provision. I see that there is the intention and the mood of our Ministry, as I see that we have foreseen as a government and have ensured that there is an institutional framework so that students can make a timely statement of their participation in the group for which they will be cared for in the higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Makri, has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. I repeat, Madam President, that when the conditions of the law are met and when it is time that the law stipulates, the Ministry always - not only in this case - takes the relevant decisions, but I will stress 'if' and 'when', to be clear in my answer. I would also like to inform you that, in addition to the documents you said, they have been sent, which assist your request today by way of parliamentary procedure, at my meeting yesterday with Mr Agorastos, I was reiterated his desire to regulate the request in the way you were proposing. I shall repeat, however, that 'if and when', the Ministry is concerned, it also has sensitivity. Since, however, you referred to the difficulties faced by the students and students of the Third High School in your area, I will also inform you of the actions the Ministry has taken throughout this period. In other words, it has been taken care of after the impact of the regions of Thessaly, so the county in which you are being dealt with and elected, to maintain distance education for students and students, so that they are not absent from the educational process. Furthermore, the "Creative Infrastructures S.A." in collaboration with the technical services of the municipalities carried out autopsies in order to determine the suitability of the school buildings, to record the damage and to start their immediate restoration. According to the document No 2960-24-32021 of the autonomous Management, Economic and Pedagogical Support of the Regional Department of Primary and Secondary Directorate of Thessaly, which was sent to the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the unsuitable buildings, which were unsuitable for immediate use in the Municipality of Karditsas, were recorded immediately and there were no school buildings to be demolished. The same investigations and the same checks were carried out in the other regional units in Thessaly, and the Secondary Education Department of Thessaly, with its protocol number 2604-18-32021 document, confirms that in the Municipality of Palama, Sofada and Mousakio, the schools housed in general single schools and vocational schools are suitable to house students and students. In addition, for the school year 2020-2021, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, an emergency plan was drawn up in the event of seismic risk for all school units in the Larissa Regional Unit. Larissa Primary Education Department has done training activities for the educational community for the seismic phenomenon. This has also been done in all staff, as well as in your county. There is also - I say this for you - and the 'Philodimos' programme, in which the municipalities and your own area can be integrated, in order to intervene in school buildings, by submitting an application for membership of the AT11 call, entitled 'Actions for infrastructures in need of earthquake protection (institutional control)'. Thank you for your interest. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Before we go to the next question, I should like to say - at the end of this question - that I too am very pleased today, because I am well aware of everything that the Minister said, as I was the reason for this regulation and the subsequent arrangements. If you have heard or noticed, he has mentioned two dates of legislation, one mentioned in 2018 and one mentioned in 2020, as well as interim ministerial decisions and all the legal framework. How useful the topical questions are! It was one of these that came up with a solution and a constant response, because that is what the Minister said. These issues are legalised and will be dealt with, in the procedures he has said, with secondary education, with associations, with the determination of the data. It started with the two murderous floods, which we had in my own constituency, in Mandra, Magula and Nea Peramo in 2017 and 2018. That is why the regulation - for 2017 that has been flooded - took place in 2018, so that these procedures can be predicted, which are necessary, because there is a great deal of trouble for children. You understand what it's like to be undone. You understand how injurious the psychological problem is. I also speak in my capacity as an older teacher in higher education. I said that for Mrs Skondra, but also for the Minister. I would also like to thank her for giving detailed clarification on the transfer of the request from Mrs Skondra. I apologize for saying all this, but I felt the need to say it. We proceed with our fourth question under number 686,12-2021, on the second question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, on the subject: "The construction of a new municipal school in Falani, the Municipality of Larissa". Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. You are well aware, Minister, that following the recent earthquakes in the area of Thessaly and in particular in the Larissa Regional Unit and respectively in Carditsa and Trikala there have been extensive damage and disasters in infrastructure, but mainly in school units and especially in the Municipality of Larissa, which the question is about today. On the basis of the results of the audits, the thirty total complexes which were damaged, namely the municipal school of Falani, were found to be inappropriate for use. I am passing away, this is a stone building built in 1925, while in 1985, following the brick building, an addition was built in order to meet the needs of teaching rooms. Let us note here that today, two hundred fifty students are being trained in this school, while year after year, the number of students is growing, as the Falani region and the wider region is developing in housing, with the corresponding population growth. Therefore, in addition to the necessary direct interventions, repairs and the necessary measures of earthquake shielding, to be launched in all school units and on the basis of recent earthquakes for the schools that have suffered damage to the Municipality of Larissaio, the need to build a new municipal school, which naturally meets the needs of pupils and teachers and, respectively, meets all modern standards of anti-Semitism shielding and protection, emerges in Falani. This demand is claimed by teachers, parents, actors in the region and also by the municipality as a whole. They demand that the necessary steps be initiated so that the building of the new primary school, a modern school that meets the needs of pupils, teachers and education as a whole, begins in the near future. The question, therefore, to the Minister, Mr President, is whether and when all these necessary procedures will be initiated in order to start building the new school building in Falani and, of course, to cover the construction of the school building from the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, after the immediate mobilisation of the control mechanisms for the disasters and damage caused by the earthquake of March 3, 2021 in areas of Thessaly, the school unit of the municipal school of Falani, the Municipality of Larissaio was found inappropriate for use by students and students. In answer to your questions, I will inform you of the following. Care for the construction, management and improvement of logistics, the national system of primary and secondary education, in particular the maintenance, cleaning and storage of school buildings, falls within the competence of the municipalities, in accordance with Article 75(1) (f) of the Code of Municipalities and Communities. Under Article 94(4) of Law 3852/2010, ‘New architecture of the administration and the decentralised administration — Kallikratis Programme’, municipalities have the power to expropriate land for the needs of the school house, the building of school buildings, the rental of real estate for the housing of public school units, their housing and agglomeration, and in case of aggregation, the determination of the exclusive use of certain areas of the teaching from each school unit, as well as the common use of the rest of the premises and operating hours of each of the established school units. In addition, on the basis of the above provision, the municipalities are entrusted with the task of allocating appropriations to the school committees for the repair and maintenance of school buildings. At the same time, under the provisions of Article 132 of Law No 4199/2013 and Protocol No D16C/05/483/C/2013, the company ‘Acquisition Infrastructure S.A.’ as fulfilling the purposes of the merged company S.A. in the field of education structures, it has a role to play in the implementation of school accommodation projects. The role of our Ministry is perfect and defines the specifications of the sites in terms of their type, number and size, which are reflected in their respective building program. According to a letter from the Larissa Primary Education Department on 11 March 2021, a primary anti-Semitism check was carried out at the 1st elementary school in Falani from a mixed mechanics step of the Larissa Town and the S.A. This check, Mr President, showed that the old stone building of the school unit, built in 1925, was also mentioned in the question - it had suffered severe cracks and damage to school rooms and was found inappropriate for immediate use. The other areas in the new building of the school unit were considered appropriate in 1985. On 12 March, a second check was carried out by the CCTIP S.A. and by engineer of the City of Larisaion, who ruled that the stone building is inappropriate for use and needs repairs. In addition, Larissa Primary Education Department informed the Municipality of Larissanes of the exact number of students and educational staff of the 1st grade school of Falani, in order to make a direct decision on the building in which this municipality will be housed and relocated until the damage is recovered. For the time being, students and students are attending distance courses. As I said, the building of the school building does not fall within the competence of our Ministry but within the competence of the municipality, who expressed his willingness and commitment on 13 to 2021 by letter sent, in this case, the Ministry of Interior, in order to build a new school building that will house the municipal school of Falani, in collaboration with the "Creative Infrastructures S.A." and the technical services of the Municipality of Larissai. The funding can be made from the state budget, it can also be financed through European funds through calls from the Special Management and Implementation Agency that the Ministry of Interior has. I'll be more detailed in my denture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, allow me to begin with this: taking advantage of the possibility of parliamentary control - not only for the Members of the Communist Party, I think that all Members are dealing with this - by wanting to raise a matter and, respectively, to get concrete answers from the government and from the ministries, we are in a dilemma. She said that the Minister for Responsibility also mentioned this on the occasion of the question. This question could be submitted to the Ministry of Education, as submitted, to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport. As part of this parliamentary scrutiny, three ministries could be submitted to the same subject. We have chosen the Ministry of Education - precisely for what was said by the Minister - within the framework of the effective role of the Ministry of Education on these issues and the school units - to start the debate if you want to bring the matter to the plenary, of course within the framework of parliamentary control. The Government, which may have powers in three Ministries, in two Ministries, in five Ministries, respectively in municipalities, in regions, and in general the State is responsible for emergency situations, in emergencies, regardless of how the municipalities do, and the regions, respectively, if they have the capabilities and mechanisms and services they do not have, and this appeared to be a matter of urgency in the recent earthquakes. I am talking about subsistence or rather the lack of services that should exist in the municipalities, for example Tyrnavos and Elassonas, in order to assist the citizens, the farmers in the villages, in all the damage suffered. So, where necessary, we think that the Ministry, in this case, should also take action to show and open the way, of course, by making use of all the possibilities available, in order to restore the damage and on the other hand, to build new school groups, in this case in Falani, as has been said. Mr President, give me one, two more minutes. We want to raise the following issues: After the recent earthquake or rather, in general, the earthquakes, what did they show? They once again indicated in the region of Thessaly, as before in other regions around Greece - the sixth country in the world with earthquakes, we are not forgetting this first in Europe - the lack of earthquake shield and protection. Here over the years, the responsibilities of governments, regions and municipalities are enormous. Now look at the municipality of Larissa and according to figures two years ago, from all the school units of primary and secondary education, thirteen schools are housed in buildings, without building permit and have, of course, suffered extensive damage. Eighteen, respectively, schools are housed in buildings, which have no building permit and have been through a process of settlement with the laws on arbitrary law over recent years, but without a study of static adequacy, most of which are buildings before 1955. Similarly, twenty - six schools are housed in buildings, built before 1985, while other schools are housed in buildings in the 1960s and 1970s. Therefore, fifty-seven schools are currently housed in buildings that are aged, since they have been built without or with little, if you like, earthquake specifications. The ninety-one schools are housed in buildings which have been built since 1985, and then the first more structured anti-Semitism regulation is to be applied, but these buildings are at least thirty years old, with what this implies for the strengths of the bearer, as they call it, of the armed concrete. And that is what we say, Mr President, that there are today the possibilities of developing science and technology which enable us to minimize the effects on life, on property by extension of our people, caused by earthquakes and other natural disasters. Life protection is, however, subject to the limitations of civil-state policy over time at all its levels. It is precisely this timely policy that is responsible for not meeting the needs and security of our people, and for the issues of earthquake protection and armoring, and similar flooding projects, etc. There's a reason for that. Because anti-Semitism protection and armour requires an integrated design that promotes balanced structural measures in the long term to prevent seismic effects and protect the structures from them and, on the other hand, immediate measures to better deal with the situation following a catastrophic earthquake. However, these plans, Mr President, are not eligible expenditure on the basis of the European Union's guidelines through aid funds and, of course, they are not implemented either by the local administration or by resources from the state budget, because they are not a sector which will generate profits for the business groups that are active, for example, in construction and not only. So this issue of earthquake protection and armoring is also being raised in the scale of cost-benefit. And here, of course, there are huge responsibilities of all governments, of similar municipalities and of others, with which we say that our people should be opposed, fight, claiming the fulfilment of their modern needs and, of course, if you like, the issues of anti-Semitism shielding and protection of infrastructures and its assets as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Now the State Secretary has the floor for her own dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, Mr Colleague, I will obviously not comment on the ideological remarks, because I am not entitled. But I will tell you, in relation to your introductory position, that you have done well and directed the Ministry of Education, although it does not have competence, as I have explained. We did the same right in doing so, in order to provide you with information that might be useful for your further investigation into this matter. I will also tell you that everyone in the government and obviously in our ministry, parliamentary control, takes it as a genuine concern for the Members of Parliament, and that is why no one has ever thought of thinking that for other reasons it is being done in a pretext. The only thing I have to say is that, in your point of view, we must make interventions and in some way force or pressure. We do not have such competence, nor do we have such a desire to intervene in the work of the municipality or the Ministry of Interior. But we have genuine interest in the conditions in which the educational process is being conducted. I would therefore like to inform you - because I have told you that I do not have the power to finance the building of the new building - that the letter with Protocol No 16491/13-4-2021 of the Municipality of Larissaios to the Ministry of Interior shows the will and commitment of the municipality and the institutions of education and the entire local society to build a new school building. For your full information, I refer to the response number 5769/13-2021 of the Department of Economic and Development Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, which states: ‘In the Municipality of Larissanes, the year 2020 is allocated to cover the costs of carrying out projects and investment activities amounting to EUR 1,535,190 and to repair and maintain their school buildings totalling EUR 520,100, while the same amounts are scheduled to be attributed to the municipality and during this year. Further management of these appropriations shall be by means of decisions taken by the relevant municipal councils under the supervision of the State, which shall consist solely of checks on the legality of their actions and on the disciplinary control of the officials.’ Also, the Ministry of Interior has created the special support programme for municipalities called "PHILDIMOS II", with a view to strengthening the balanced development of the municipalities of the country, improving the infrastructure and strengthening the competitiveness of local society. In this context they shall include: The protocol number 5133/23-2-2018 invites 2, entitled ‘Rehabilitation, maintenance of school buildings and intangible areas and other actions of the Ministry of Interior’, with a total of EUR 50 million in order to improve the infrastructure of primary and secondary education, in which the Municipality of Larissaion was integrated with the financing of the programme of EUR 858.400. The protocol number 3029.2/19-4-2019 a decision to grant the municipality of the country under the ‘Philodimos II’ programme for the implementation of projects and investment activities that are part of the development priorities of the ‘Philodimos II’ programme, as identified by the Ministerial Decision 4748/20-2-2018, as amended and valid, and by the municipality of Larissaios was financed with the amount of EUR 1,531,500. Finally, the Municipality of Larissaios and the Region of Thessaly can apply for funding from the calls issued by the Special Management and Implementation Agency of the Ministry. These are the following: For protocol number 16401/28-8-2020 invitation to A.T. 07 for the development of a municipality's building stock. For protocol number 18213/29-9-2020 invitation to A.T. 10 entitled ‘Conservation of open sports spaces, school units, accessibility of SMEs’, on the financing of projects for the maintenance and repair of school buildings and intangible buildings, as well as any other related action aimed at improving the infrastructure of pre-school, primary and secondary education and improving the quality of the services provided in the field of education. For protocol number 14578/24-7-2020 invitation to A.T. 11 ‘Infrastructures in need of earthquake protection, prosthetic control’. This invitation concerns the financing of the municipalities of the country for projects related to primary and secondary segregation controls of critical infrastructure, such as schools, sports facilities, and protection measures to be taken on a case-by-case basis. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u231	We thank the Minister, too. We are entering the last timely question for today. It is the twelfth under number 680/124/2021 of the Second Cycle, MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "For a year now, teachers have borne the cost of teleworking." Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, what has happened to both teachers and parents is really incomprehensible. I'll give you enough information about the parents next. We have parents and teachers, as well as teachers who are parents, who, in order to participate in telecommunications, have been found to have to go home, upgrade their computer, set up a faster connection. People who at the same time had to do teleworking themselves in children, their children at school, their husband or wife telework. That's all they paid out in their pocket. It could, of course, be someone or someone who would say that "well, they weren't the teachers who had to do it at home, let's do tele-education from school." But, indeed, whoever said that would have no picture, would not have visited a school in Greece recently, where logistical equipment is outdated, there are no cameras and microphones on all devices, many computers cannot even raise demand programs and at a low speed internet of school units, which before telephony was very low. Here I have a complaint from a citizen, from an educator, that he couldn't do televised and finally discovered that the school's connection was at 6 Mbps. Also, how many schools across the country - would he not have known who would ask - have a computer per school or at least a relatively satisfactory proportion? Anyone who was asking why the teacher went and made the teleining from his home should not know how many teachers share the same computer alternately per hour. Of course, it would collapse the telecom system if all teachers and teachers decided to go on the same day to work with teleworking from their school units. Neither modern nor technically problematic computers would have found the school network up all this burden. This is why teachers themselves and their own costs were burdened by purchasing equipment, upgrading their network from home by responsibility, by conscientious conscience, consciousness of their duty toward their duties and to their own students and students. Here comes the opportunity to get a redemption in this process. You announced you'd give through voucher computers. Although you started it and the programme had been announced since 15 December 2020, before you and yourself took over, the applications finally started, and 250 grand had already been allocated for the promotion of the programme. But in the end, we see that in order for a parent, an educational or not, because both categories paid for televising, they have to have an income below EUR 12,000, families with two parents and two children, a family with two parents and a child under EUR 10,500 and a family with a parent and a child under EUR 9,000. Excludes teachers and most parents. So we really ask you to change these criteria, so that at least these people can be compensated in part, so that they have a decent computer for their children. I would ask for a very small tolerance, Mr President, since it is the last question. I'm going to raise two more issues. Apart from the fact that the parents' associations, who, as you know, have been found without being able to hold elections and are headless too many, are those who helped schools get some elementary computers, at this time of teleteaching, but also, as the Association Association Association tells us, they are the ones who have been helping parents many times, while since January the children who have no fixed connection pay teletext themselves. Citizens contacted their telecommunications companies and replied that the Government did not renew the free use of the platform for 2021. This is a shocking complaint, Minister, and I want your answer. I shall then read the written reply of the telecommunications company.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u233	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, we have said before in this Chamber and in reply to your questions that nothing can replace living education, but training for objective reasons, such as those caused by the COVID pandemic -19, has been an important tool for the process of education to continue smoothly. The provision of a universal modern telecommunications platform, covering the whole of the daily programme throughout the country, was the exception in Europe and not, as you say inaccurately, that it collapsed. It is our country's honour to ensure equal access to modern telecommunications. It is an important conquest for Greece in the context of the fight against pandemic. The Ministry of Education has taken care, since the beginning of the crisis and the implementation of telecommunications, to provide students and students with portable electronic devices and, indeed, as evidenced by our data, participation was large and no issues of access to telecommunications were raised either because of network or equipment throughout the country. In cases where there were few obstacles to access to telecommunications these were immediately restored. The Ministry of Education ensured horizontal access from the first days of the universal ban, due to the pandemic in spring 2020, arming and daily upgrading its systems as follows: It upgraded the public networks and platforms of the Pan-Hellenic School Network of "e-class", "e-me" for the whole educational community of the country. It ensured the free use of an international teleconferencing platform that could meet the needs of a million six hundred thousand pupils and teachers and ensured it for every student and teacher at every corner of the country. It strengthened the equipment of schools with over ninety-three thousand portable devices, sixty-seven thousand of them covered by the NSRF and twenty-six thousand and more donations from about four and a half thousand received in July 2019. He completed day-to-day training seminars for the use of the platform in teachers from each school in the country, while setting up a Helpdesk special for forty people within the Ministry since the first day of telecommunications, which was the 16th of March, in order to facilitate the transition to distance learning. It ensured a zero charge on all educational platforms by telecommunications providers, as well as a zero charge for dialing access via fixed or mobile phone. Greece is one of the few countries that have secured zero rating, which has also been reproduced in foreign media. Our Ministry has already joined projects in the national investment section for supplies of equipment in school units, preschool and secondary education, vocational training and the operation has already been completed under protocol number 4845/411-2020, support for the training process by providing electronic equipment for the "Human Resources Development, Education and Lifelong Learning 2014-2020". The project was integrated into the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. The competitive process has been completed and the project is being carried out. It is co-funded by the European Social Fund and the Greek State. According to the accession agreement, its budget is EUR 12.103.250, with the beneficiary of our Ministry, in which forty thousand laptops and tablets are provided in school units. The "Digital Care" Programme is already being implemented to support families with dependent children who attend educational structures through a cheque system. I'll tell about these in my dentistry. The "Turkish teacher training in the implementation of distance learning, a holistic approach", with a budget of EUR 1.534.337 for the training of all teachers, is also under way. In addition, the call for expressions of interest for the Greek school network was published under the 2014-2020 Public Reform Programme with a budget of EUR 3,5 million. Another government initiative, already from the previous year, is that all the links between the school units were upgraded to VDSL 50mbps and wherever possible and at greater speed. In addition, the use of the accesses to be made available under ‘REFERENCE II’ is under way. Our Ministry has already ensured that access to telecommunications services is free of charge from mobile telephone networks. Therefore, tele-instrumental services can be used by students and teachers who do not have wired Internet access. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, what's the reality? Because you presented us with an image we've heard of before, that's the beauty of it. It's not your responsibility, and obviously, it's not your data. I understand that Mrs Kerameau's office promotes this image and calls for it to be repeated in the House. Mrs. Kerameau went to Illion yesterday to a class of kids and asked them about tele-education. Ask her to tell you what the children said. The reality is that the gaps were and are tragic. The parents and guardians' associations came in and, as you know, we are constantly discussing this. They're headless. You don't allow them to hold elections. The necessary framework is not created to make these elections. They're gonna break up in school. So these clubs are who found computers and gave to the families of children who did not have the opportunity, as did teachers. They kept a very large part of the process standing, while this process remained standing. Anyway, they kind of reduced the blockades. Of course there are the teachers who, I repeat, went to their homes, upgraded their line, upgraded their computer or got a computer, and so they went over - to the percentage that came out - this process. If you go to school and see the situation with computers and join the chat forums and talk to parents and teachers, they will tell you themselves. I would like to return to this issue, which is further and crucial, namely the answer to the telecommunications company. I read to you: “Dear sir, thank you for the time you have spent in our written communication. With regard to the issue that has concerned you, we would like to clarify that the weakness you face about the free use of the Webex application is about some more general weakness that has arisen with the use of this platform and not just the use through your mobile phone. As far as we are concerned, we would like to clarify that there is no evidence of an estimated date of restoration, as it concerns actions that need to be carried out both on our part and on other bodies. After the overall settlement of the matter, you will also be informed.’ For example, the company said that the Ministry does not pay for the free use of Webex the telecommunications companies from January 2021. This is a very important matter. I want you to be clear, because it is a matter of your competence, if this complaint is false and the payment is normally made - I tell you again that the citizen has sent us a document - or if the free access to Webex has now been interrupted, and what is happening, because it seems that children and teachers if they have no money and no fixed connection, are now being cut off from this access to telecommunications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, for the last message you have read, I think that in the previous parliamentary control I have answered you with sufficient authority and I have even referred to it, in an extensive parliamentary control that was carried out by the SYRIZA Members, where we informed you that it was free until January and then we used contracts - to say this simply, because I think that this matter has been covered now and I do not understand why you are coming back - a few days before the 2019 elections by SYRIZA and on the basis of these conventions, which are burdening the Greek State with 14 euros for each of the teachers, tele-television is still going on. So, I don't understand why the repetition, because I'm sure, because you were here watching, that you understood and reverted to the Minutes with the Minister's replies, for which you were not informed. I don't understand why the repetition. As far as our primary contact is concerned, the Minister and I as well as the students are concerned, I can assure you that there is, it is stable, at any time and on a daily basis, when obligations allow it, and we always admire the honesty and firmness of the students' questions and remarks, never in the direction you suggested, without saying, of course, what did you mean. I will come back with concrete evidence, which shows that equipment has been made available to students, students and teachers without their own burden, because that is the point of your question and there is no doubt about it. Because I did not mention general estimates, I mentioned specific acts, protocol numbers, which support the Ministry's arguments. We don't present a picture because that's what we want. So we used all possible financial resources to provide portable equipment and free-of-cost, easy and fast access to the Internet, even when there is no wireless connection. In the current period, the following actions are under way under the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning of the NSRP 2014-2020, co-financed by the European Social Fund and the Greek State. Firstly, support for the educational process by providing portable equipment with a budget, in accordance with the accession decision, EUR 12.103.250 and a beneficiary of the Ministry of Education - Technical Services Directorate - where forty thousand laptops and tablets are provided in school units. Secondly, in practice, rapid training of teachers in the implementation of distance learning, a holistic approach, with a budget of EUR 1.534.337, for the training of all teachers. Third, action has been specialised and a call for expressions of interest for the Greek school network has been issued under the Operational Public Sector Reform Programme of the NRP 2014-2020 with a budget of EUR 3,500,000. Furthermore, with the "Digital Care" programme, the Ministry of Education, by building the telecommunications acquis, invests 112 million euros for the purchase of technology equipment for students, students and students through a cheque system, with the aim of further digital transformation of education, strengthening the digital skills of the educational community and strengthening our vulnerable fellow citizens. The programme will make a substantial contribution to achieving an inclusive digital educational model, giving our young people the facilities they need to achieve their goals and become creative and extroverting citizens. It is our absolute priority to ensure that participation in the digital transformation of education is about every new and new, including the weakest finances to which the programme is addressed as a priority. "Digital Care" is a programme of very large scale both in terms of the budget and in terms of the number of beneficiaries, which amount to three hundred and twenty-five thousand families with five hundred and sixty thousand young people. The number of devices available through the programme is particularly large. As long as we consider that the number of tablets, laptops and desktops that usually move on the Greek market amounts to nine hundred thousand pieces annually. Taking into account the size of the programme, the first public notice of the programme has so far been thorough and multi-level preparation, in cooperation with the market, in order to carry out the necessary orders of the eligible appliances and to provide adequate technical equipment in the implementation of the action. A legal provision has also been passed which creates the necessary institutional framework for the implementation of the programme, specialises and integrates the technical document of the programme into the National Public Investment Programme until the country receives resources from the Recovery Fund - it will be the first money that is being used for it - and the detailed planning of the programme by the Information Society has been carried out, in cooperation with our Ministry and with the valuable contribution of other bodies, such as HICP, OPECA, AIAE, the Ministry of Digital Governance Interoperability Centre, the 'ITE Profane' and the EDTE. The response to the 'Digital Care' programme is great. Over three hundred thousand young people, between four and twenty-four years of age, applications for vouches have already been approved for the purchase of technology equipment. Don't worry, no one - but nobody! - the beneficiary will not be deprived of this possibility, because we invest in everyone's digital future and strengthen vulnerable families. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u239	Thank you too, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-16-S1-commons.u240	With the consent of the House at 14.04 p.m., the sitting on Monday, April 19, 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a debate on a topical question, in accordance with the agenda for questions distributed; b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
