ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions'. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, first I wish you many years, have health and strength! Madam Minister, I would say that the attitude of counter-population during the debate on the bill in the committee responsible had three basic features. One is that there is a failure to understand the real situation, and that is to reduce the problem of lawlessness and infraction in universities. The second is that the positions of opposition on the changes do not reflect the positive opinion of most citizens. Society, ladies and gentlemen, appears to be more mature than the parties, and this does not give rise to any impression, if one considers the third element of the anti-politics attitude, than resorts to easily, simplistic and outdated stereotypes, such as police as a state suppression mechanism alone, cameras as a means of using fraudulents for surveillance, confusion of arbitraryness with freedom, tolerance to lawlessness, the state that must finance without assessing, minimum effort and equilibrium downwards, the deterioration of problems at a distance from society with sprinkled ideas of post-population. These three features, ladies and gentlemen, are behind arguments against change. Excesses have been heard, such as the Greek Police Protection Teams are a blow to democracy - as if it is not a blow to democracy, the minorities imposed by violence - that the majority disagree - as if the ETA meeting were not in agreement with the controlled entry or the minimum import base - and that there is no positive reception of changes from society. Heard we'd have police stations at the universities. This is how they painted the control and reception centres of signals and images that have a different purpose and will be managed by AEI officials. There have also been excesses of personal rights and spying capitalism, as if all the observations of the Privacy Authority have not been taken into account. Apart from the excesses, ladies and gentlemen, there have also been some arguments that seem reasonable and solid, but are not, that the uppers are coming down, while only 0.1% of crime is recorded in universities. You must not, however, forget that it is not a question of scope, but of intensity of infraction, that even if it relates to a few, specific universities, something needs to be done about it. You notice that the incidents recorded are much less than the actual ones. It is also said that, with the minimum import base and gravity factors, the clientele of private colleges is growing, as is the case in private colleges, especially students who did not pass and not those who want and can study what they want, or that the poorest students are the worst students, which is not supported by the data. We have also heard, ladies and gentlemen, that incorrectly the money goes to security staff rather than to real needs, as if freedoms of expression, teaching and research are not necessary for the welfare of universities, freedoms which are currently being violated at the will of the few marginal groups active in university spaces. All this criticism, ladies and gentlemen, must not be surprising. It is criticism that in every attempt to deal with time problems corrects denial, stagnation, half-measures. Most of our fellow students, among these most of them, understand why the changes proposed can do better, better for the employees at the IOIs and for the quality of their work, better for the candidates and students as well as for their families, better for our society and economy. They understand, because changes in the import system enable the educational units to raise the level of study and the weight of the diploma, to claim better funding, to manage more efficient staff, students and infrastructure, to claim even better positions in international evaluations. Changes to the import system increase the chances of the student studying an object he wishes, completing his studies and getting a degree with a contrast. In other words, it increases the chances of his own effort and money being made available by his family. The provision of student limits also helps to reduce, but also to have the effect of family spending on education, but also of universities making their design based on real, active students, making more efficient use of their human resources and infrastructures. The predictions of the safety and protection of university spaces in fact give exactly the opposite of what they are criticised for: more freedom. The members of the university community must be and feel free to move, to express themselves, to work, without threatening their physical integrity or dignity, without destroying property against teaching and research and, of course, against taxpayers, because where security spoils freedom is mutilated. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening at our universities is another negative deviation from what is happening abroad. So let's not pretend. The special situations require special treatment. We know that there are no guaranteed solutions. There are, however, solutions worth testing, applying and evaluating them, to see what we will hold on, what we will reject and what we will change. We are aware of the operational challenges of the presence of a security corps at universities. We are aware of the anticipated violent reaction of the extreme groups affected by this presence, as well as the potential exploitation by political forces, who may wish the project to fail in my heart. We want it to work, because that is how we will pay value to those who are in spite of difficulties and restrictions, who are trying to do their job, because so the management of issues, such as student selection and security, will be able to go to universities in the future. We choose to test with weights that keep higher education preyed and leave back fights to those who do not want or cannot understand that their reality has gone beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask that the time be respected. I should like to inform you that it is a hundred more colleagues to speak, and if time is not respected, it is advisable that the latter should be wronged or shortened or that the time should not be at all spoken. I would ask that the time be respected. Four Members will speak for the organisation of the debate and then one parliamentary representative or Minister. Now Mr. Digalakis from New Democracy, then Mr. Kegeroglou from the Change Movement, then Mr. Yiannis Loverdos from New Democracy, Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr. Kostas Scandalidis, will speak. That'll be the turn and we'll see. Mr. Skourletis will also be followed. Mr. Skourletis, you'll tell me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u5	I have asked you to speak earlier, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u6	After Mr Scandalidis, who has asked for the floor yesterday, two colleagues will speak and then you will. Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President, for many years! Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very important because it addresses issues and chronic diseases of our universities in terms of safety, the minimum import base at universities and also at the higher education level. Because of time I will focus on my speech on the first two issues. First of all, I would like to point out that by regulating the reestablishment of academic freedom with Law 4623, in August 2019, public authorities and therefore the Greek Police have the opportunity to exercise their statutory competences within the university. Police must prevent, safeguard security and protect both academic and other staff and students, by applying the above rules. I shall raise two points about safety. Firstly, the issue of self-employed, where we must not confuse two concepts, that of the security and protection of citizens with the protection of universities. Civil security and civil protection is a task, as stated in the Constitution, as has been stated by the Council of State, but also by the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament published last Monday, cannot be entrusted to a private person. It is only the responsibility of the state and the Greek police or in specific cases may be entrusted to civil servants. Therefore, the prevention of infringibility, protection and security within universities and their preservation, which will continue to fall under the control of the Republican authorities, in the context of the exercise of its powers and self-interest. The second point concerns effectiveness. The provision on academic freedom of Law 4009 provided that criminal offences committed within universities were to apply the relevant criminal provisions. These arrangements did not bring about the desired result, although they were in force from 2011 to 2017, when they were abolished by Law No 4485, the Gavroglou Act. It is often expressed in the public debate, especially in recent times, that the administrations of universities have been responsible in particular for these phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete from 2013 to 2017. During my term of office, I have often asked for the assistance of the police and state, the security issues and the treatment of violations at my university. I have never received it, although I have even addressed it at the highest level, to the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection for the most serious of them. A characteristic example is the refusal of the police to cross the polytechnic gate to capture a marked criminal who had attacked an institution student, and was already indicted for thefts inside the Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a distorting concept of asylum for many years has made its state and institutions reluctant to enforce the law. This raised even more violationous behaviors within the university. This inertia of the state made the workers and administrations of the universities suspicious of the state's real intentions, as they unarmed and alone would have to deal with the consequences the next day. Were there administrations of universities that didn't do their job? Yeah, clearly there were. But as there were the competent authorities of the state, who did not respond to the extent to which they should. We shouldn't make the same mistake this time. What is needed is determination by all, by the state, from the administrations of universities to implement the regulations, to restore safety at universities. Only in this way will we free the university from the bad ties it has had for many years and that needs the university, we all need it so that it can still go ahead. I now come to the second point, that of the minimum import base. As has been said several times in the debate, the proportion of high school graduates in Greece who enter higher education amounts to 80%. This is twice as much as international practice as is happening in the rest of Europe. Unfortunately, we have, as a country, cultivated the wrong belief in our families and young people that the only way to professional rehabilitation - and I would venture to say about their social realisation - is to pursue university education. We drive young people who have no real interest and call to academic education, so they never finish their studies. In 2016-2017, with some seventy thousand entrants, 25% of the departments had an import base of less than 10,000 molecules. This year, with eighty thousand invaders, 40% of the departments had an import base of less than 10,000 molecules. What's the result? Our country should be the last in graduation in relation to all students. If a formal curriculum lasts four years, one would expect one in four students to receive a degree every year, which is happening in the rest of Europe. In Greece, one in ten students receive a degree every year. What does that mean? That students enter the university and either because they don't care about a school or because they don't have the necessary skills to meet the requirements set by the school's level of study, they don't manage to go ahead with their studies. The minimum basis for introduction and submission of the computerised form in two phases is to deal with these two problems. Firstly, the student has the skills needed to meet the requirements of a particular school, and that is why we allow schools to determine the basis for introduction themselves and, secondly, by limiting choices in the first phase of submission of the computer, we call on the candidate to take consciously what he likes and not by accident. Ladies and gentlemen, the minimum import base will to some extent limit the number of importers. That's for granted. The basis for the introduction of a section is not only dependent on the quality of studies or the prospects of professional rehabilitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for your tolerance. To a large extent, it depends on the distance from the large urban centers, from Athens and Thessaloniki. I'll bring in a distinctive example. Medicine at the University of Crete is in the first two hundred medical schools in the world this year - according to one of the most valid international rankings - and the first of the respective schools in the Greek universities. However, if we classify the medical schools according to their import bases, then the medical practice of the University of Crete is sixth, that is, the last. The geographical criterion of these candidates will therefore lead to a reduction in importers, particularly in regional universities, by establishing the minimum import base. Many of these sections, not all, are valuable in terms of quality of study and cognitive objects. It is therefore important that, at the same time as the minimum import base, there should also be a redistribution of importers in order to dismantle segments of the central HEIs from large numbers of students and not to disguise sections of regional universities accordingly. In order to do so, Minister, the Ministry should proceed in defining the participants in the programming agreements to be concluded with the universities, taking into account the proposals of the universities, as well as the suggestion made by the National Authority for Higher Education, which should be based on objective criteria such as the school's intellectual potential and their infrastructure. In this way, a better distribution of students in the departments and an increase in the level of study in all departments will be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim must be for universities to have the place they deserve on the international scene. Our aim must be not to have only one university in the first two hundred, but more in the first hundred in the world. And believe me, I'm sure our institutions' inspiring potential can and will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President, for many years and many of you and all of Charalambous and Chariklias! We wish everyone health!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Health, above all!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Digalakis, I personally appreciate you, but you may have just confessed from the Step by lack of duty. You said there was a criminal act at the university, you informed the police, you refused to come, but you didn't tell us if you told the district attorney. You must do so, because the previous law, before August 2019, but also after August 2019, with the difference of alerting and calling, not only allows the police, but obligated it if there are criminal acts to enter the university and be dealt with, especially since you said it was called. So we sincerely want a clearing here, and for who was the police director who refused and who was the prosecutor you informed and did not receive. Because in the communication game to prove that a special campaign force must be put into universities to deal with issues that are the responsibility of the police in the form of crimes or the security and security issues that are the responsibility of the same university, you are resorting to such tricks and tricks and, of course, the falsification of investigations. Research is needed if it is to be safe, safe and calm in universities, so that with full academic freedom the teaching and research work does not show 70% and 80%, as you say. It's 100%. None of the citizens want the mess to continue as far as there is and in any universities there is. Nobody! And that is why we need to see how, through effective consultation, this has to be done. In other words, the democracies should assume their responsibilities - once the former democrat has told us that he has not done so - according to the law and the self-employed, of course, the political forces for what must be dealt with. Yes, to guard, yes, to safety, yes, to the uninterrupted accomplishment of teaching and research work, yes, to academic freedom. All this with the proposal for a law that we have tabled in constitutional terms is being implemented. Refugee. You want a special campaign force. All right, you want the acidity, obviously, and the confrontation. You don't care about the result. If you were interested in the result, you would have answered the question that I submitted to you since November about storage at the University of Crete with a scream for legislation concerning guards. You haven't answered from the 11th month. I come to the second question on disciplinary matters. These are the two issues, guarding and disciplinary, which we have also raised the objection of unconstitutionality. It is also provided for by previous law, Law 4009/2011, which was passed by a huge majority in Parliament, the procedure by which the bodies responsible for disciplinary proceedings are established and, of course, the content of the rules and the consequences, the disciplinary provisions, as we call them. I shall submit to the Minutes the Rules of Procedure of the University of Patras - I shall not testify from Crete, to tell me that in Crete it is - which refers to the disciplinary procedures and how they are to be implemented. I will present to you the respective Rules of Procedure of the NRP of the University of Athens, which specifically refers to it - this is a regulation, whereas in Patras it is an organization - and where the NRP specializes in the work of the Agency for the examination procedures. Instead of having a general framework, a model regulation and a body which will come after consultation and go to all universities responsible for deciding to incorporate the relevant provisions into their bodies, you are taking some fragmentary provisions and making disciplinary law as a central administration. Here we have to see that there are two speeds, if you call. This has to be done in order to deal with the second fast, where universities have not made progress in the appropriate institutionalisation through regulations and agencies as required. If they do not, then the standard regulation applies. So that's the right thing to do. Why are you going unorthodox? Because you want to show that you're struggling and that you're going to decide. Can you tell me what the main and permanent factor is in the university community? What is this House, which has more permanent features? The teachers. For teachers, what exactly is provided for in your disciplinary provisions? Nothing, but nothing! There are provisions for students who, firstly, are not the same persons all the time and, secondly, are the recipients of the services, if we can say so simply. Because they're not exactly like that, they're partners in the university process, etc. Here too, there's a completely communications issue, to say you did something. However, you are not doing anything on the substance. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. I now come to the subject of the base. There has been a lot of discussion over the years. When everything works as it should, it is certainly the minimum plaque criterion that is important to exist. But when you, like the previous ones, have you done nothing to upgrade high school, now come and say that the introductory exams will come to assess the bad work we do in high school or the lack of a high school policy? This should have been before. Unfortunately, there is nothing. We have replaced you with a national sanitary, which means imprinting all the student's course in high school and, of course, a Bank of Issues. You have chosen to introduce it only into the internal examinations in high school and not into the introductorys and you come to put on a base, which, of course, varies - up to 14 can come out in the way you do - and has the complete opposition from regional universities. And on the other hand it has, other than regional, it has a universal reaction. What for? Because the selection criteria for students as soon as they choose to go are multiple. You come with the 'crop bed' to solve, supposedly, a problem that needs to be dealt with before high school and you don't. There was a meeting on ELMEPA's initiative in Crete, it was all the Members. And your MPs recognized - Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Sedetakis - the specificity of regional universities and especially of islands. After all, the Constitution requires that they have a different approach and not a single regulation. The Constitution requires it, I say it again. They have therefore recognised that if this is implemented, without the corresponding upgrading of high school, it will be punishable for regional universities and, in particular, for certain departments. And they have asked - and I shall put it before you, Mr President - that there should be special attention to regional universities if you insist on this regulation, not eight to twelve, which will apply to central and Thessaloniki, but that there should be special regional arrangements. For example, from six out of seven, I don't know. That is, however, in your understanding. I'm closing up with the pandemic thing in school. Mercy! You were disproved by Mr. Kikilis, the regional directorates, who have obviously sent you the real facts, but the central cooking leads to saying everything well. He's not okay. You have not listened to our proposals for 15 sections for a test. At the Ministry of Health they sprinkle a million eight hundred thousand rapid test sprinkle, ordered EFET another 5 million and massive tests are not carried out in schools. Ask the Ministry of Health all these rapid test to be exploited in schools. Ask now, a million eight hundred thousand are stored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u14	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President, for many years and publicity from this step. Mr. Kegeroglu, I want to focus on a proposal you have just said. You said we should have built the school first. Mr. Kegeroglu, every move we've made for eighteen months is upward. It is no coincidence that we started in kindergarten itself, that we went to change the philosophy of school. From a school that focuses exclusively on the transmission of knowledge to place particular emphasis on skills culture, critical thinking, collaborative work. Well, skill labs, evaluation models, experimental schools, all of which remind you of something, Mr Kegeroglu? Perhaps not, because many of your party, unfortunately, chose to vote against it. So, then, the changes have been upwards for over a year and a half, because that is exactly what educational reform makes, and we are now coming to make structural changes on how to upgrade the level of study in our universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, because he has an urgent task to speak with his colleagues abroad, and then we will go normally. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, many years! Thank you both to you and to colleagues from all sides for accepting my request. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary today the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs which contains provisions on the introduction to higher education, the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment. It is a draft law that responds to a government's pre-election commitment, a draft law that attempts to deal with chronic and new malfunctions some of which, unfortunately, are dealt with as new bridges in Arta! For example, I recall the ‘filter’ for the introduction to higher education in 2005 and the 2006-2007 constitutional reform for the possibility of establishing within a strict institutional framework of non-state - non-profit-making tertiary institutions. Continuous umbilical reflux and deliberate reflux are serious pathogens from which we must finally get rid of. In my belief, the up-to-date central objective for our educational system must be the strong, complete and lasting promotion of quality, quality of all elements and functions everywhere in conditions of continuous expansion and strengthening of equal opportunities. To this end, it is necessary to develop, at a rapid rate of decentralisation of responsibilities towards training units, a modern and transparent framework of operation that creates positive incentives and the application of internal and external evaluation and social accountability systems. Ladies and gentlemen, universities are systems of education, research and democracy, they are the main institutions of production, accumulation and dissemination of human capital, they consume resources from the limited and competitive claimants of the economy and they provide individuals, society and the economy with varieties of outputs, results, market and non-market benefits, positive externalities and diffusive effects. So their potential role in individual and social progress and prosperity and the overall strengthening of our country cannot be called into question, and has also been strongly documented by science. As far as the Greek university is concerned, the international literature reveals that it has rather modest performance, of course with excellent islands, compared with the respective advanced countries. It is therefore necessary to improve the quality of the human capital produced, the efficiency of investment and policies, productivity and efficiency of the educational units. It is necessary to alleviate the disharmony of its outputs with the needs of the labour market, the phenomenon of over-education, the brain drain and the gap in basic research with innovation and production. To this end, the Government, through this draft law, seeks to contribute to the upgrading of higher education studies, improving the academic environment, ensuring greater autonomy in universities, ensuring more targeted and quality choices for students. In particular, the minimum import base per school, part or introductory direction laid down by each university section shall be established. This provision sends the right message to the Greek society. For young people, families, universities, society, the economy and the country only benefit. The prerequisites for successful study and early completion of studies are guaranteed and the validity of university studies, which had been affected in previous years, is being upgraded. There are now import phenomena of students with an extremely low import base, the autonomy of university institutions is strengthened and the opportunity is given to form their own academic knowledge. Honestly, I cannot understand the reaction of counter-population to these provisions. Would it be preferable to continue the massive, inaccurate introduction to universities, without evaluation criteria, to have cases of admission of students with a degree of '2' and '3' who do not wish to study, so that they do not complete their studies? These cases, according to estimates, now reach 30%. Fortunately, however, the majority of society - even the voters of the Officerial Representation - are, according to a recent survey, in favour of the import base. Secondly, it is planned to submit the computerised form in two phases. This process gives greater weight to the candidates' conscious choices and achieves a reduction in the number of successful students in random selection schools, which in many cases has led to a lack of interest in the follow-up and abandonment of their studies. Greece cannot afford to waste its most valuable resources, that is, its successive generations. The quality of study, with the participation of students in parts of their choice, has thus been upgraded, the need for relocations is reduced, and the improvement of the curriculum of the admissions is promoted. Thirdly, a maximum time limit shall be laid down. This improves the rate of student graduation from higher institutions, ceases to be unactive, eternal students and more rapidly integrates the human potential into the labour market, since the studies are now coherent and up-to-date. Moreover, the image of universities in international scientific rankings is being upgraded. Moreover, as in every educational process, primary, high school, high school, it is important to have a framework at the university. Of course, exceptions for cases of work, serious health reasons or other exceptional reasons have been foreseen and will apply. Fourthly, provisions are promoted to protect academic freedom, improve the academic environment and upgrade the functioning of the Greek universities. Unfortunately, for a long time, educational and research work has often been devastated and democracy is affected by acts of violence, illegality and infraction within university institutions, acts which are an insult to every rule of law. And it is a constant request for the academic community, as well as for society to stop such phenomena and ensure safety and legality in the spaces of the university, and the Scientific Service of the House in its report on the bill is positively expressed on these provisions, saying that the provision of legal protection for life and personal security is not subject to the discretion of the State, but is an obligation of the State. I hope that the proposed regulation will be the medicine to deal with an emotive disease that the political system and the university community have so far been unable to cure. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, the New Democracy Government boldly, with a view to the future and with a view to the real needs of the Greek society in brave reform of the HEIs, with a view to promoting the quality, safety of the university community and the overall resolution of the universities. In a world that is changing rapidly, we need to extremise our mistakes and ensure the right conditions for the forces of freedom, democracy, work, creation and production to carry out their high missions to our universities. The New Democracy wants and works in time and unforgettablely for public universities, which will act as leaders, as a pioneer and dynamic part of the Greek society and economy, as a cave of democracy, advanced research, free teaching and movement of ideas. These universities serve the long-term needs and targets of Greek society and its economy. With such universities, Greek society will feel proud, strong and secure in the modern competitive and uncertain world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Ioannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy and will be followed by Mr Kokkalis Vassilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President, and many years, with health to all those who celebrate today, and there are too many of the Babis, Charalamies, Charilaians, Charikales and Charalabies! Today we should all celebrate, because we are still standing, alive, healthy and fighting for a better Greece. Things are very difficult, extremely difficult, unprecedented. We have never lived in such situations before, but we are more optimistic because we have the strength and determination to deal with situations, the difficult situations in a hard manner, but the only effective one. In this context, this draft law on higher education also comes, which actually brings very tough measures, in relation to what has happened in the past. I'm not hiding you that neither I nor anyone would be happy to see police officers in uniforms in the universities, but is it done differently? For decades now, since I joined the Law School in 1978, several years have passed since - my question has always been: 'May anyone do what they want in college?' We have heard for many years and from the left that was then leading the universities - the left has been leading the universities for decades, from 1974 onwards - that they must have the freedom to express themselves. We all want academic freedom. We all seek academic freedom. We all want to be free to express ourselves and promote scientific research. But is it scientific research or academic freedom to build teachers in their offices? Do you remember what happened to Mrs. Spirakis, who was a professor of Pharmaceuticals? Do you remember what had happened to today's Undersecretary of Education, Mr. Syragos, when he was beaten wildly in the university? Do you remember what had been done with a number of teachers who have been attacked by students or even outside parliamentary circles? Is that academic freedom? I fear that we have misunderstood certain conditions and that is where I think society has shifted, it has understood. Unfortunately, the Left does not understand. Society realized that it cannot continue in our universities. It cannot be cloning our universities, it cannot be what is happening today with the disasters of their buildings and infrastructure. We have good universities. Indeed, we have good universities and SYRIZA says how much the NRP has gone up to the overall evaluation. The EMCDDA was right to upload to the overall evaluation under the two-tier position and good for teachers, students and scientific staff of the EMCDDA. But imagine what position both the NRP and the Aristotle and all the other universities, if we could focus only on academic research and freedom, if we could only deal with the education of our students, our children, and the children of all of us - not just SYRIZA, the New Democracy or other parties, are children of the Greek people - if we could only focus on them. Imagine how much better things would be! I fear that some people do not want to understand this and that is why they are insisting on outdated conceptions of 1974 and 1978, which were abrupt to what had passed since the civil war and the dictatorship. But today, we don't live in the same time. Today, democracy is not at risk. Today there is no danger of freedom. Today, academic expression is not at risk. On the contrary, democracy is now well established in our country and freedom reaches the limits of immunity in certain situations. That is why having protection in universities, distinguishing and highlighting the most capable in order to meet the requirements of a university is a prerequisite for our times. Unfortunately, the left - with heart pain, I say, because I would like everyone in here to agree, on such important issues, we should all agree and agree - has been caught in a time that has passed - fortunately unreturned - for our country. Neither a civil war will happen again, nor will anyone be chased again for their political perceptions in our country, nor will it become a dictatorship again. We will all be free to express our opinion and the Greek people will judge and decide who is the most appropriate whenever elections are held to govern him. This is also the great achievement of post-population, which we owe to all political areas. This is the great achievement that we have to move forward today. The presence of police officers at universities is not something, I repeat, that many will like. And I don't like to see police uniforms in the universities. I hope that time will come when we don't have to. Understanding what universities are and not having to be. Today, however, it is necessary. Today we can no longer tolerate violence. We are talking about small organized minorities, not all students or teachers. They're very few, but they're organized in gangs, unfortunately. This cannot go on. And that is why this bill is coming the direction of which, like the one voted on in the summer of 2019, is in the right direction. Now, you're gonna tell me, don't you have any reservations? Is everything going to be amazing? No, I'm not hiding my point of view. I always call it happy. Another thing to vote for a bill and another thing to be applied. There's a long distance. Especially in the field of education, we have seen many laws that have been passed in good intentions by the Ministers for Education, such as the Condogiannopoulou Law, the Arseni Act, the Diamantopoulou Act, which have been passed and have not been implemented in practice. That is why I expect these laws which our government brings to be implemented and implemented with greater and wider consensus from society and, if possible, from political parties. However, something I am pleased about is that so far this debate in this House has been in a good climate. Controversy and opposing views have been heard. That's the point of democracy. I hope that this will be followed then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you too, Mr Loverdos, for keeping time. You're always in time. Mr. Vassilis Coke from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education's bill is being discussed in the shadow of the Prime Minister's announcement yesterday about a general ban or Lockdown. We live in the season of experts. But you will allow me to make this objection. Citizens must also have access to the opposite scientific opinion. I call upon a proposal of twenty-five experts, professors of medicine, who saw the light of publicity recently - published in the 'Kathemerini' - according to which lockdown is the last instrument and at the same time the failure of the policy applied. I would like to ask the government: you did fifty - sixty polls in 2020. Have you spent money on carrying out surveys of epidemiological surveillance? I think that's what citizens need to know and not wait as normal any and continuing lockdown. Instead, what are you doing? You are trying to exclude deprivation of either income or freedoms from making it a rule. Instead of acting in reverse, you legislate by expanding social inequalities. I'll try, Minister, to stand on three points of the bill. You mentioned that this bill is a bill of common sense. Although this concept is subjective, I will try to interpret common sense. Firstly, the practice of the respective political leadership of the Ministry of Education has been the attempted arrangements - reforms to be implemented after three years. What are you doing? You've been surprised and applied since this year. I, too, put the question: is that common sense? Does it belong to common sense, to surprise families and pupils? The answer will be given by the citizens. Two. Reduction of importers. Here I think that the title, ladies and gentlemen, of the bill, should be: 'Improve access to higher education'. Here is the best manual for how one cannot have access to public education, how one will not have access to free higher education. I'm sorry, we're doing this to promote excellence. Sounds good. To promote excellence. But there is also the point he says: why do you not try it in private colleges? Why private colleges, since their degrees have been equated with those of universities, the only condition is for tuition? You must understand that these arrangements exclude an important part of society from being able to meet the current challenges. I'm coming to the university police department. You have exploited and exploited - and now that is what you are doing - the legitimate and justified concern of the average thinking citizen, asking him: Are you in favour or against lawlessness? Do you want lawlessness to be eliminated at universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u22	Is that what the investigation says?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u23	The answer to the overwhelming majority will certainly be 'yes, we want'. I'm putting on a top. In August 2019, you again used common sense as a rhetoric for the abolition of asylum, for the police to enter and deportation. It was a felony anyway. Establishing a pre-investigative body - regardless of whether they carry a weapon or not - in university spaces, what does it mean? Or the police didn't do her job all this time or the arrangement failed. That is what the common sense of the average citizen, who think about citizens, will at some point perceive the arbitraryness you are going to do. Because now you go straight to the other end. The purpose, Minister, which you want to achieve - and most, at least, agree - what is it? To eliminate the phenomena of lawlessness, but which do not exist in all the universities in Greece. Can this be achieved by other means? Let's see. You say, “No. Straight to the Police." Can this aim be achieved by proper care, yes or no? Is this the case in other countries, with care personnel trained? You guys went to the other end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. You amend Article 168 of the Criminal Code, which is in Article 34. This article should have been in a bill from the Ministry of Justice. So you come here and you amend an article of the Criminal Code and the amendment is only in the criminal deceptiveness of the act. And what does it say? ‘Whoever enters illegally or...’. So, with this bill you give the first responsibility to the university police to check who comes in, whether it enters illegally or not. Tell me, Minister, will I, as a lawyer, be allowed to students, teachers and staff - will I not be able to attend a lecture at the Athens School of Law? You will tell me, 'you will'. Yes, but with this provision and these responsibilities, I will be subject to inspection if I have to enter or not. Better than me is described by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which hits the risk of unconstitutionalism. I repeat, the average citizens, Madam Minister, have never been asked whether the phenomena of lawlessness, which are serious, could or could be eliminated in another way. You legislate, going to the extremes of common sense, but also to the extremes of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Red. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kostas Scandalidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u25	Happy birthday, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult day. I think that visionary speeches, general declarations, reports on integrated reforms and changes that are invisible even with the microscope do not have a place with a reality that is cruel and avenges any such intention and all that. We are discussing your legislative initiative in another day difficult for all of us, following the announcement of another lockdown, which will make it even more difficult for our social life and the economy of the country. In both the big issues dealt with in the draft law, unfortunately your choices are tragic and are at a time when we are all experiencing. They are irrational, impeccable and, above all, ineffective. The worst is that they are dictated by your demographic performance and communication needs and not your real anxiety to solve time-consuming problems. Madam Minister, yesterday the Prime Minister declared another lockdown and today schools are closing down. In our ears, your statements about the coronary are sounded a few days ago, which has nothing to do with the schools, so it would be dramatic to close the schools during the pandemic. If I am not deceived, they were held at the 'ND - 1' a few days ago. I believe that this shows a lack of sense of reality and the tragicity of moments. High school students with subjects of incomplete education, with lack of knowledge in a tragicly difficult year, with insecurity for one of the most critical periods of their lives, are charged with new puzzles: How to choose the school, how with new algorithms they will discover the basis for the introduction, how to complete computer and the worst, how many thousands will remain outside the universities. In the midst of a pandemic, you have once again decided to implement the policy of 'rave' and you are baptising it, a so-called reform in the most inappropriate way, which leads to the worst possible results. What would be a real reform? The one who would catch the thread again by L.4009/2011, the law that the current Prime Minister described then as a "generating step forward" and which the subsequent governments have unfortunately set aside. It would change the import conditions, give the examinations the measure they own, judge the student on a course of learning and his real knowledge and performance, do not depend on his life, his psychology, his judgment, quantity and quality of his knowledge only on the examinations or on an import basis. It would also prioritise a real upgrade of high school. He was going to accompany the III-year-old learning process in preparation for admission to university. It would give him the national certificate of entry and demarcate the Bank of Topics on which it would be examined. In this way, the level of admissions to higher education institutions could be upgraded. That was and is our alternative. This, however, requires deep sections and time, which comes in direct conflict with the communication priorities and the needs of a power that reforms the bases for computerization on the eve of the examinations, sowing insecurity and despair to the student and leading a significant percentage outside the universities. The unsuccessful student will, as a general rule, pay a degraded college, will easily get a degree that corresponds to his real knowledge and competes in the labour market, since he will have a degree equal, based on your policy, to the public university. That is not what reform is called. Probably looks like a deregulation. And of course it is the same of the decisions that you make. Now we're going to the second topic, big topic, university police. My good colleague, George Mulkiotis, yesterday brought to the surface a speech by Mr Mitsotakis ten years ago, from which I would just like to say a small paragraph. Mr Mitsotakis then said about the relevant law of 2011: “The second important element of this bill is that it gives a lot more flexibility to universities to regulate their homes. The self-interest of universities, in my opinion, is a myth. What self-interest is we talking about when every decision that the Greek university has to make, whether it is large or small, has to be approved by the Ministry of Education? So the self-residential, which is constitutionally regulated, has not in essence defended it and you are doing well at the moment and you are giving the universities more opportunity to regulate their homes." Last year in this Chamber Mr Chrysochoidis said that neither police nor lawlessness had a place in universities. Nowadays, you're setting up the university police force with bazaars and branches! What the person was and what the person is, no one can easily see it, because there is so much distance between the one view expressed the first time and the policy you are pursuing today. Wasn't the asylum law the panacea that solves all the problems? Here there was a huge debate and with great conflicts, the incidents with the dean and, more generally, various acts of lawlessness in the universities took place. Public opinion was rightly formulated in its overwhelming majority in favour of cleaning up the university. Another demographic performance that guides your actions, your initiatives. It hurts tooth, you cut head! Let's get the police to solve the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer back to this point. Is there a problem at the university? One side says how well things are and that the phenomena of lawlessness are sporadic and do not characterize the Greek university, and indeed is being upgraded. I heard yesterday that he went to the eighty-sixteenth place, while for another colleague from New Democracy he is in the four hundred eighty-sixteenth. Are these numbers satisfying? I'm not satisfied with anyone. There's no lawlessness? Obviously, there is. Isn't there a distortion in the relationship between teachers and resignations? Obviously, there is. Is there not a selective approach to the free dissemination of ideas, to obstructed knowledge? Obviously, there is. The university took steps in the meantime, and all these phenomena exist. His teaching staff made progress, students who come out of it, vary in the level of knowledge. No break-in is acceptable. In 1982 the democratic university was installed, bringing the end of a time marked by the junta and the events of the Polytechnic. But since 1980, for those of us who claim to be progressive - the FDA has not been president again. The orders are blowing the same slogans. The Polytechnic is celebrated in the same way. Taboos remain firm. And because I said 'the factions', I would say, because I have already heard a good colleague from the New Democracy say about the hegemony of the left and right, that I hope that none of you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will believe that the IGC has been a party that has been fighting for the reorganisation of the university over the years! We're going to bend to the problem, in fact. We're going to be wrong for those of us who pretend to be the progressive ostrich. There have also been attempts to reform at times when they may not have been completed, but they have left some positive signs. And now instead of making an account, instead of shaping terms of national understanding, instead of using the positives and overthrowing the negatives, you are coming, gentlemen of the government, and you are giving a great deal of solution to Alexander's sword. But to return to the speech of the Prime Minister at that time ten years ago. He says Mr Mitsotakis: "I think that no sector of Greek life, social and public, has eaten more stools as a result of the lack of understanding from the education sector, which unfortunately has been found over time in the cyclone of a hard externalist confrontation." What is the Prime Minister's real face? That of the politically liberal and consensual, or the one that today legislates authoritarianly and against everyone, against the decision of the Chamber of Deputies against the Panhellenic Police Federation, against distinguished members of the conservative party who disagree with the university police and, above all, against almost all the parties in Anti-Population? We often like comparison with standard universities. There in Cambridge, let's say, you're not welcome by the police. You're welcome by the clerk asking for your identity and the reason you're going there. However, there is no idea within the university to criminalize ideas, to prosecute speakers, to trample on the freedom to disseminate ideas and on the absolute possibility that this area has of guaranteeing this freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of education is the most important area affected by authoritarian and fragmentary policies, the area that requires a long-term and agreed strategy. We feel the obligation, as a Movement of Change, to make our specific and realistic proposal to the university a self-sufficient guard and protection service, with a remarkable choice and training of its staff, which will be subject to the rectoral authorities. Cooperation with the police and other public authorities and services on the prevention and repression of criminal offences under a specific protocol. Ensure the entry and exit of persons by showing identity. A university which, in order to define its disciplinary bodies, decides and commands the Minister of Education, which, in order to protect its place, is the Minister of Public Order, is not a self-governing institution, but is a servant of government orders. It is impossible, for reasons of principle, to agree on such a regression step for this crucial institution for the progress and future of the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President, for many years, to enjoy your family first of all! Madam Minister, yesterday at the beginning of the procedure we made an intervention and proposed that this debate be stopped here in the face of the rumour, which was finally confirmed, for a new lockdown. Already schools are closed with unknown when they will reopen. You refused it by adopting the argument that democracy does not stop its functions. Of course, democracy is not just a debate within Parliament. Democracy is about the whole constitutional framework that defines the functioning of the culture. There is also protest and concentration within democracy. However, we are in pandemic conditions. So, given the objections of the regulators, the world of students, students and parents - in any case, it is a bill that divides, a bill which surprises the candidates this year - you are choosing to continue unsatisfactory. Tell me, are you responsible for the social unrest, the turmoil? In a few hours a new pan-educational rally begins. Will you take the exhortations of the government mentor, Mr. Portasalte, who has been saying since this morning that this is a great opportunity to give a decisive blow to those who are in front of you? Do you take that responsibility? Do you take responsibility for repression? Do you take the responsibility of a new cluster in front of a lockdown that starts harder than Thursday? The Prime Minister made a motion yesterday. Among other things, he said he understands the irritation of the students. Do you understand him? Does the Prime Minister mean that? If you understand it, can you change the import system a few months before the Greek exams, or is it indifferent to you? Or do you want to take advantage of the conditions of the pandemic, considering that so, in a scene of extortion that you set before the fear of disease, will you go through with the least possible objections and objections to your bill? Of course, by listening to the Prime Minister yesterday, he would think we should turn the clock a year back. This letter could have been heard in March 2020. It cannot after almost a year, with unfortunately rich negative experience of managing the pandemic, go out to the Prime Minister and talk about a success story that in his denominator he has over six thousand dead. Something didn't work out. You cannot adopt the logic of the average conditions: what have we had at first, what have we had in the end? We are taking off the average, we are under the respective European countries. No, look at how the situation has escaped from November onwards. Look at the increase in mortality outside of the ICM. Look at the increase in mortality from other causes than the coronary, which has risen vertically, the figures announced are today for December for our place. I can't ever think of the Prime Minister of the country talking about success, not if it's six thousand dead, but if it's one. So, in this setting, you said, again, well, that we've reached the last mile. I heard a few colleagues say that society stayed up. But, after all, how low is that one? How many businesses do they still have to close down? How many should they lose their incomes? How many people must be in danger of getting sick, begging not to be found in hospitals, which inhibit their surgery? Today the report of the 50% suspension of surgical interventions in the "Evangelism". A new scream of agony by the NSA doctors. Why? Because a lot of people get sick. And there's a replacement line? Are there any reserves? Have you made sure that there's been a reserve in the ERC for so many months? No, you didn't! Likewise, you personally did nothing to change the operating conditions of schools. You didn't find any new rooms. You put this request aside. You did not proceed with permanent appointments. You didn't increase the number of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u30	Fifty thousand more, Mr. Skourlet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u31	Don't be like that! Don't be like that! The numbers are indisputable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u32	Don't interrupt, Minister. You will be given time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u33	You're not doing any of this. Not even the self-evident prescribing of the tests. Don't tell me you're doing targeted tests in the educational community, in the workplace. You don't do none of this. And there are complaints. Because you're showing up here and saying that the transmission indicator from the schools is too small. There are complaints that you have given orders not to record cases, believing - which to some extent is correct - that when children are ill there is no danger to their health. And we can take them home, but don't record them, don't start the tracking process. And, possibly, this third wave now beginning to be due to the reckless way you have opened the schools, in the reckless way that you are dealing with large workplaces, the irresponsibleness that you have shown in public transport, where nothing has changed all these months, that is, the places that are supertransponders in this case. So, can you come and say that things mutatis mutandis went well? You will tell me that perhaps the contents, the style of the Prime Minister's argument yesterday, will match the message he wanted to give voluntarily or unwittingly from visiting Ikaria. Tell me something: Do you think that political leadership, a Prime Minister should give an example or not? I guess he's got to give it. To set an example not arrogant, for example, that he is above the laws himself, but that he is leading, he sets the good example, which the majority of Greek citizens are gladly following. An unprecedented self-discipline we have in Greece and this the Prime Minister did not honour, he did not understand with his attitude. Go on, once, then, he was in Parnitha, in violation of legislation and in a double manner. The worst of all is making motocross in areas that are a national park. Of course, you do not have green sensitivities. "Green" sensitivities begin and end when it comes to "green" business clothing. That's another matter. We'll talk about it another time. But the second time? This presence in Ikaria? And the worst of all, but very revealing are the commands to ERT's command "dead it!" They also raised up the CSCE. What do they look like? They show how you are finally ruling: through a erected communal storm, which works at the expense of reality, which is trying to bury your own great responsibilities. In these circumstances, therefore, you are bringing in a bill which in the name of improving the level of study you put a new 'cutter'. And you're just doing it - and you haven't answered this - to create new customer armies for private colleges. It is now obvious that this exists. So tell us: Are there any evidence? How many people have spent the last decade, since 2010 have been abolished by Mr Scandalidis's quotation, the basis for introduction to universities? How many have passed with a low degree, under ‘7’? What was their course? How long have they sat down at the universities? How much do you charge? Who's over? Do you have such studies or are they indifferent or not related to the content of the training? What's this? Tall letters? Are these about some strange university students who have the sensitivity to talk about the problem? But you, of course, have the sensitivity of the numbers. You have the logic of market excellence. Because on the market the child whose family has money in one way or another - perhaps some selling a plot in their home village, some because they have the financial comfort - will enter college in order to have the same professional rights as the one who will give the battle for admission to universities. This is the excellence of the market! That's your logic! At the same time, there's been a storm lately. We also heard him here from the interventions of the majority Members who almost want to charge everything to the universities. In Greece, if there is a problem with drugs, if there is a problem with illegal and illegitimate acts, if there is a problem with rape, it is all about universities! But where do you live? So blinded are you? Are you going to adopt this kind of beebelic logic? Because when all of us are denounced by the extremes, you are breaking open doors to tell us that, in any case, one way or another you are covering these situations. Does the current context you brought in enable the police to intervene when there are criminal offences? He's giving it! He's giving it! You want another thing. It's another thing that bothers you. You are disturbed by the university, as has been shaped in Western Europe over the past decades, namely as an area where ideas are being handled. That's what you're urging. And to tell you something: Will you talk to these children of the DDP, who for decades have been the first power to be beaten and set up mechanisms with helmets and bats in schools? Do they have responsibilities or are they lying? Even members of the government have taken the lead - their names have been heard here - in such practices. And there are other practices, the practices of students who make tiles with like-minded teachers and sell topics. Haven't you heard of that? Is that what you're going to talk about? Or are these outside the educational process? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that without evidence you are coming, even though you are provoking it, and you are introducing a law which simply serves your ideas, in order to get the credit of the power that is involved and you fear it, of the Greek Solution. You're afraid of her. It affects you in national as well. A little bit pulling your sleeve out of here, a little bit from there. He's lifting your finger. It is the hostage situation that has been created because of the new quality features that have now been established in your prolongation, in the New Democracy, a fact that has been increasingly affixed, has adopted the extreme right-wing and far-right rhetoric. I think - and I shall end, Mr President - that you are doing all of this because you have written with those who see health and education as market goods. There is no meaning to you of the common good, of the public good. You have even shown it to the critical health issues on the basis of the proposal for access to patents and to treat vaccine as a public good. You are even denying what is constantly gaining in Europe supporters of adopting it. You remember how the Prime Minister himself here was mocking this proposal. You have adopted, you believe in that logic that from the Prime Minister's own lips has been heard, that the son of the freezer must remain cool. You are disturbed by the possibility of education, so that there is a social mobility, a development. You do not treat education as selfish, which operates liberatingly for humans. You consider that social inequalities are the result of natural selection. And that's what your Prime Minister has said! And he said that: Social inequalities as a result of natural selection. You are fanatical of a system which in recent decades has widened inequalities both in Greece and throughout the world. You believe in the unscrupulous production that has blown the climate, which is largely responsible for these more and more often incidents of pandemics. It is precisely because the productive system has intervened in closed biosystems and released such dangerous viruses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u34	Please, Mr. Skourletis, complete. You've been in sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, I've got a dentext, so remove all of this from dentistry. Isn't that right? Good accounts make good friends and advisors. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you have chosen, in the interests of your ideas, a path which, however, increasingly shows that it has been overcome by life itself. They are very old and outdated your views and are the core of today's problems both for Greece and for the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u37	Apparently for a clarification, Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two points. Mr Skourletis raised a matter of responsibility for the dispersion of the coronary from the demonstrations. Mr. Skourletis, your Chief yesterday in an unprecedented statement took over - says - responsibility for the incidents that will result from the demonstration. How much hypocrisy now? To denounce the Government of incomplete measures when he takes responsibility for their violation! That's who you are, Mr. Skourlet. This morning you are protesting and at noon you are denouncing an increase in cases! So irresponsible! You're talking about the absence of dialogue. It is perhaps the bill that has been discussed most in the public debate. He's been talking for weeks in the media, here in the House! What other bill has been discussed for three whole days? The budget! More than a hundred fifty are the Members registered. A dialogue to the end, yes, we should be here at night, of course, but not that there is no dialogue, Mr Skourletis. Secondly, the management of the pandemic in schools. Because you have said many inaccuracies, these cannot remain unanswered. You said we weren't hiring at all. Is that possible, Mr. Skourlet? One element at first: You know that on the basis of a study by the UN it has shown that only 23% of countries have undertaken to recruit additional educational staff within a pandemic. Greece is one of them. Do you know how many hires were hired this year? Fifty thousand, Mr. Skourlet. Find me a year that became an equivalent number of recruitments. Permanent assignments! For the first time in the history of the country in Special Education four and a half thousand permanent appointments. General education: ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments, psychologists, social workers. Why? To strengthen our children, strengthen our teachers, strengthen educational staff. Mandatory use of a mask earlier than other countries in ages lower, different breaks, customized candles, non-school tours, extension of the full-day school to protect vulnerable groups, informative sessions by doctors, extended information for students, teachers and parents. So all these measures are what you say we have not taken one. Mr. Skourletis, do not continue this unprecedented irresponsible. If you were government the schools would be closed, from the first day of the pandemic to the last and the kids would be in the black. Why? Because the tele-education, unfortunately, you fought her a rabies. Mr. Skourletis, we're living an unprecedented situation. Schools around the world open and close. Why? Why do we serve two objectives: firstly, the protection of public health and, secondly, the continuation of the process of education is as unavoidable as possible. It's a very difficult process for our students, for parents, for teachers. It's too hard. The only easy thing would be to say that we're all closing down schools until the pandemic is over. But it would not be responsible and would not be what would serve our children. And one last thing and I'm closing, Mr. President. Command not to record cases? I would ask you to submit us in the Minutes, not just to launch rumours and irresponsible complaints. Tell us, Mr. Skourletis, who gave orders and where to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u40	Wait a minute, I'll tell you. It is nothing personal, it is aggressive, that I do not want to use the expression of the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, therefore, only to clarify what you have said. Please don't expand. You have said all that and you have answered it. We will therefore not have a dialogue here, just say whether the content of your speech has been altered at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u41	Yes, they were corrupted and they had it all, but don't say we won't have a dialogue here. We have had so much vertigo now with the debate that has taken place for three days in the House! Is that a reference to the need to discuss a bill that is critical, like that of education?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u42	This is a matter of placements and people judge. So say, if what you said was wrong at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, do you see that it wasn't right to give him the floor? 'Cause now he's gonna be second-guessing and triangulating. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u44	So I say alas, although the necessity of dialogue is condensed in a three-day debate within the House on such a bill. But obviously that is how the Minister perceives dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u45	This was decided by the Conference of Presidents and the plenary first agreed. We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u46	Hey, let me go, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u47	I'm explaining the Rules of Procedure. You saw that instead of 12 minutes I left you sixteen and a half minutes. But say it, I'm not cutting you off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u48	Of course, there seems to be a greater problem of understanding here, because under no circumstances can the interpretation of Mr Portasalte, which the Minister told us here, in any case, of the statements made by Alexis Tsipras yesterday, be given. Responsibility is unique and yours for what's happening. We have warned you both at the beginning of the debate and all the previous days and you insist. So blow it all up. Take responsibility for your responsibilities, but you cannot invoke disgraceful and other references and interpretations to give where they do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u49	Please, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u50	Finally, I would like to know from the Minister how many teachers, due to subjective diseases, have been licensed and what gaps have been created and whether these have been covered and overcome, because the needs are much more. How many new rooms were there in the schools when they were closed and now that they're opening again? Is the number of students reduced within classes? These are the big questions and these are its own responsibilities and much more. In schools that can't be closed for children with disabilities, have the empty permits been filled over there? There have been targeted tests? We're not playing with these things. It's about life. So answer and leave the interpretations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u51	To end this cycle of speeches, Mr. Khiridis will now speak from New Democracy, then Mrs. Kanelle from the Communist Party of Greece, then the Deputy Minister of Education Mr. Syrigos will speak, then Mr. Davakis will then speak. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsis will speak and the cycle will be closed with Mr Ghika, Mrs Malama and Mr Arsenis. Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the dialogue which is always necessary and useful, I should like to make two points about what the two previous speakers have said. Speaking to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, because I listen very carefully to the fact that the academies and aggregations of the academic community are against and I have heard and read the minutes of the Committee on Forums, to say that I saw the president of the PESC advocating the bill as well as a lot of prerogatives in too many provisions. We had the dean of the largest university in the country, Mr. Papaioannou of Aristotle, the former dean of Aristotle Mr. Mitkas, of course publicly the dean of EKP, Athens and so on. So there's no need for these excesses, not to say anything heavier. As regards the KINAL Parliamentary spokesman, I have listened with great interest to his position, but I have to say that I am confused. Because other KINAL Members - I am referring specifically to Mr Kamine, I heard his speech yesterday, Mrs Kefalidou, the teacher of KINAL - have a different spirit and approach to the bill. It is also a sign of pluralism - I would say - in the opposition party. And I now come to my own speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the higher education bill is an opportunity to get to know each other again, to see who the democrat is and who represents the democrat, and who tolerates the fascism of violence, who is progressive and who is deeply and deeply! - in the dark, who serves the people's interest and who plunders for themselves against the weakest and most vulnerable, who most of all need the quality and upgraded public university, to see who is honest and who is political. If this is cleared up, all the other things are found and how we will ensure the safe passage of the Greek society from the great test of pandemic with the fewest losses and how we address the threats of Turkey and how we will raise our economy and give our young people a chance and a total of Greek society. But first we have to make it clear and separate lies from truth, hypocrisy from substance, the theatre, the bad theatre, which is once again played here, while society is asking for solutions. I would point out, therefore, that the legislative initiative of the government does not affect democracy, but upgrades it and protects it. There can be no democracy and freedom without security. In the Greek university we have post-politically replaced the state authoritarianism of the junta with the arbitraryness of the party volunteers, the offenders and the last of the criminals. You're telling us there are no cases of illegality at the university. Really? Are you serious? The incidents of violence are known. Only you, blinded by your idealism and selfishness, do not see them. What is not known and has not been measured, and you will be obsolete in some instances of self-criteria of our teachers. Can we call whoever we want to teach or at a special seminar? The answer is 'no'. How many conferences and other events were taken outside the university for security reasons? In my case alone, many times and I can give you a detailed list. If not a police force, who? Privately'security' will persecute the crime? Or will the victors be chasing the narcotics at the University of Aristotle in Thessaloniki at night? Greek and foreign universities came from abroad with the Foundation Councils and the Cots with your support - not to say "guidance" - made them pass through and humiliated them so that nothing could change, that no bad text is touched. Your kojabasses and your "neocotzabasism"! I'm coming to disciplinary school. When has the Greek university been punished for copying and sloganing the academic process and being the fundamental academic misconduct? The answer, unfortunately, is a deafening 'never'. And I want to be absolutely honest. The shame is a burden on the whole of our political system - with a few exceptions - that has been tolerated at the expense of our honest and hard-fighting students. I can talk to you in hours for my own personal experience. When I tried to have an elementary disciplinary punishment for copies, I was indicted by a coalition of interests with my participation and colleagues who wanted the favor of party youths. I've got the general meetings here from the university, if necessary. This has been and remains to a certain extent the situation, which does not honor anyone and which, instead of practicing the new generation in the values of effort, of speech, of excellence, sometimes devours it to convenience, transaction, violation of rules. Copying and census cancels the university process. And because I want to talk to you manually in the heart, Mr Skourletis, when I talk to party youths, gentlemen - all of Anti-Population - I have the courage to talk to all of the party youths. You have this bravery, Mr. Skourlet, or for you some are good and some are bad? We therefore want the open, safe, quality and upgraded public university, which Greek society as a whole needs and the weaker ones even more. What do you want? An introvert, low-flight and university requirements, which will produce unprotected graduates, who will be easily manipulated by the dealers of illusions and delusion, as would your Chief - whom I welcome in plenary - a university incubator where only party officials and followers are recruited without qualifications, but with access to the party and state? You're thinking about how many people get into college. How many people come out of college, you got something to tell us? Is there any interest in that? We have the lowest graduation rate in Europe. As Mr. Dygalakis said a moment ago and as all statistics say, will we do something about it? Are you interested? Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago you voted in favour of the Rafale Convention and you did well. I urge you to vote in favour of something even more important, because there is no greater national investment and more effective armor for Greek society than for education. Since the regeneration of education, the rebirth of our nation began, which just two hundred years ago led to the grand Greek Revolution. With an ally of education, modern Greece has become equal in Europe and prosperous and, above all, the problems in our education are suffering our national course for a few decades. So let us leave hypocrisy, especially the SYRIZA MPs, who in the past supported the reform initiatives in higher education, such as the Diamantopoulou Act in 2011. In these critical times, the country cannot withstand the theatre, civilization and demagogicism, the careers of politics. You then voted for the controlled entry to universities, the disciplinary sentences, the abolition of eternal students, a series of provisions now under discussion. It would be an act of fundamental consequence to vote again at least on what you voted on then, in 2011, ten years ago. And I'll be done. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not only important to education. It is important for each of us to understand the political act and I think that the debate is revealing. After all, the Greek people themselves in all the polls supports with a large majority - and your voters to a large extent - these changes and goes through, turns the back to all the phenomena that we hear out of place and time about junta, insurance and police rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u53	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u54	I close, addressing the Ministry's leadership, the friend Nike and the good colleague Angelo, to tell them that we are doing our duty, but it is just a first step to vote in favour of this bill, because in order for it to make sense for the self-government of universities - which is the great acquis of democracy - university evaluation and accountability must be strengthened even more. Otherwise, the self-employed becomes a refuge for selfish and synergy interests. So evaluation, accountability, reinforced mechanisms!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u55	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I shall end with a phrase: Greek society is a philosopher and invests in education as little in the world. Our universities are full of worthy scientists and our youth is of excellent quality, for which we can be proud. With the appropriate institutional changes we can, in fact, take off the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. Mrs Kanelli has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece and then the speaker of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras called for the floor. You'll talk next, Mr. President. Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u58	I thank the Chief of Officer's Response who was kind after three hours of opening the process for the JRC to be heard, because as it turns, we have to wait for our turn. The time we're going to be ahead isn't long. Madam Minister, tell your Prime Minister - directly we say so - you get excellent! With this bill you get excellent in a degree - unprecedented, however, in the field of education - 'bubesia'. It's a special lesson. You get excellent in "babasia". More babasic period and way to bring this education bill can't have been. The kids are locked up in their homes. Most people don't even have access to my so-called telephony training of all ages. The universities have been closed since May. They haven't seen a day and time when all youth is, from childhood to age eighteen, nineteen, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five in an informal prison with distances and masks, have a bill. That's what's called a buffalo. It's like you're talking about rules of release to prisoners, rules to upgrade a prison. After they're out of jail, they'll try it. Aren't they calling you? So much have you lost contact with the world and you and Mitsotakis? They don't call you parents to tell you: "I'm out of your mind because I'm home, they'll go to psychopharmaceuticals for the child. I have my daughter, I have my son at fifteen, sixteen, seventeen. What kind of tests will he give this year? He doesn't know how to complete the computer. What is that evil that found me? How much material can he read? What matter to read? How will the computer be supplemented?’ They've all been betlers. They're calling us MPs. Don't tell you what five-year-olds and six-year-olds say. I've got them in a message and I'll show them to you. Today they go to school lately as if they were going to mourning and alert and say: “Tell them to put a hundred days in prison to understand what she's going to say not to go to school.” Because there was a way the schools would be open and everything. And you're not telling me, you're telling us that your pain has taken you right now to raise the level. By copying a more model? You're closing schools. From tomorrow you'll close it all. All right, turn it all off and leave the special schools open. You're going for a walk to Aigaleo today. It's a special school and it's still open. He's got a hundred forty kids and a nurse. They've been asking for a second one for months. He's a nurse to give the drugs and deal with the issues. Now look at the stage of modern education that will raise the level, which will bring about thirty thousand students and make it all nice and amazing. So to go out in a suit and a babasic tie and say: "Here the perfect tricks" because it is a trick to choose at this time. If you had courage and political bravery, you'd take it back on the occasion of the pandemic, and then we'd say good. But this is no time to talk about it. Thousands of times would have us chat about it in the summer with universities kept open in the summer, but be alive, and not to be tourists. So go to Aigaleo to see what an open school means. Do you want me to tell you circumstances? And you know how children are there and you know it's not easy for them to wear masks and keep distances. They're in adolescence already, but they're functional kids. In twenty-two square nine children and a teacher. God damn it, he'll pick me up. From here, it's a half a square. Put two kids in, put a teacher with or without a mask and tell me you're doing a great job because you're hiring. What hires, where do you hire them, how do you hire them? Now you've found the new model: Police. I don't know where you're copying this. I hear from time to time, you and Oxford smuggled us. Baby, are we in our way? Where did you come from? Apparently you've come from somewhere. It can't be. I'm sure you came from another planet. I don't understand that. Have you seen any fountains like the Oxford dorms in Greece? Have you seen restaurants like Harvard? Where have you seen these? Have you seen georgetown dorms? Have you seen Syracuse-type teachers' offices and convention rooms? I will tell you some of the universities that are very popular here among us and there are a number of them, and the government, which are graduates of them. There's a university in England coming out of colossalism, and it says that the whole year will go with tele-education. Have you ever imagined tele-education as it is in Greece? Are you serious? This is not working on the WebEx of the House. Half of us go out like a "gaga" from over to be heard. Don't tell me I'm wrong, we're living it in here for three hundred people. It's over-party. Anyone who has participated in a teleconferencing conference in the Greek Parliament is like being heard from the depth of the well and if it is heard at the end, if it succeeds, ZOOM, platforms, money, stories, courgettes with the oregano! Where did you get the police model you want to put? From America. I am not going to spend seven minutes or a minute, Mr President. Let me tell you where you got it from America, you got it. In America too many campus have. Here you want "Fraulies and blood" of the first century. That's what you want. You want to 'Reds and blood'. You want to achieve something else, so you stand on one, two, three, five, ten individual have done some, possibly extreme, brats. And say what you want. It's totally indifferent to me. But you want to shut the mouths of salt Americas with universities and take the police inside the campus. Well, I'm telling you right now - and I'm telling colleagues to know that - thirty-six thousand offences were committed with the police in the American universities last year. Of these, about 60 percent are sexual, and the rest are robberies. One of the prisoners. Secondly, in California, in Colorado, in Connecticut, in Illinois, in New York, in Michigan, in Massachusetts, in Pennsylvania, in Pennsylvania, the so-called Defund Plice, refinancing and cancellation of the police after the murder of Flond has begun. They're throwing the cops out in those areas I told you outside the universities. They're throwing them out and taking the funds and giving them to psychologists and sociologists to create the right climate to restore calm and no violence. In Minneapolis, Denver, Portland and Oakland 2.5 million dollars were taken to provide other services. When your American friends, who so much love them and drag them from base to base, and you have given them a camp from one end to the other and they have made no schools, no scholarships, no navals, so when they take their police back, you come to put it. And there for Floyd. Imagine American students - I say now, in a hypothetical science fiction film and apologise for half a minute - that half of the Greek police, who is aggressive and she will not put it in universities, vote Golden Dawn. Rejoice them and your bamboo. The police are not going to enter the universities or your ideas. The ideas thankfully have wings and can overcome you by looking at tomorrow and the sky.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Cannell. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group now has the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u60	I'll only talk for five, six minutes. I'm not taking advantage of all the time. I'll speak from the seat. I would like to take the floor at this time in plenary on Mrs Keramos' bill, because I have the impression that the government has started to lose control of both the pandemic and political control within its panic, and in its pandemic, it is leading to decisions that are unacceptable, in antidemocratic manipulations. And I'll explain right away. Madam Minister, you are persevering, while you know that there has been no real dialogue, neither in the academic community nor in the educational community with all the institutions, but also in the knowledge that the Parliament, because of the pandemic, is operating in a special regime, but you are insisting on all these days that you should bring a bill to the vote that creates reactions and raises reactions to the entire educational community. You have against you almost those who represent the educational and academic community, you have them in front of you, you have students toward you, you have even the policemen, you have against you even important officials of your prolongation who have been Ministers of Education or higher academic places, such as Mr. Souflias or Mr. Fortsakis, who was a Member of the State during the previous parliamentary term with New Democracy. But you insist. And, of course, you have to face you - they cannot express themselves, but fight - the overwhelming majority of the parents and high school students in a special year, in a year that they have not been able to do well - to go to their ranks and are constantly studying distances. You also decide with great determination to proceed with a bill which, for the following year, will have at least twenty, twenty-four thousand less entrants in higher education institutions and will change in the middle of a pandemic year the framework for introduction to higher education, the pandemic examinations. And I wonder why this insistence. You appear inconsistently, unresolved and you do not understand that all of this - I repeat - occurs while at this moment the minds of all Greeks, all citizens, students, parents, households, the children of the third grade are in pandemic. The thought and fear of all of us is if we can get away with grandma, grandparents, parents in their homes, children. We have cases in schools, and you go ahead unsuccessful. Mr Mitsotakis announced yesterday that we are entering a third lockdown, and that is a European originality, while the second one is not yet over. Tomorrow we close all educational institutions, high school, primary school again. And while we are at this extremely critical moment - the infectious ones talking about a third wave, which comes and asks us to take measures - you insist. You insist that you come here, go ahead, legislate, vote in these circumstances, without understanding that this is not only the way you are causing opposition, you are not only causing the functions of democracy itself, but also public opinion. Unless you understand all this and do it exactly for it, on purpose. In other words, you understand that the reactions to what you want to bring are reasonablely huge and that is why you find an opportunity to pass it all, with the overwhelming majority of the educational community in the muds without a lot of noise. I say this because there is a precedent, because you were the ones who brought in and passed 'night' literally amendments to an unrelated bill, obviously taking advantage of the pandemic and the special situation in which Parliament is legislating, which concerned the equalisation of the professional rights of graduates of higher education institutions, with the graduates of the three-year-old colleges. And not only that, but you've come to force the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Finance within 30 days to register the college graduates. You were very well aware that if this amendment were to be brought to the Greek Parliament under normal conditions, in normal circumstances, that is to say, where the opposition could ask for a roll-call vote at 50 MPs - which, however, each Member would be in here and would not authorize his vote to the secretaries of the groups, because that is what is actually happening, let us not be laughing at ourselves, because we are in special circumstances - there was no possibility of any reactions. Reactions not from Opposition, but from MP engineers and economists of the parliamentary majority. Because the MPs are not liberated. Everyone understands that the notion of excellence, that is, thousands of graduates - among all of them and many of us here - through pan-Hellenic examinations and with high difficulty getting a degree, and at the same time someone who does not enter this suffering, in this trouble, whether or not he can, have the opportunity with his father's money to receive a three-year-old degree and have the same rights to signatures with the engineer or economist. Is that the excellence? And you did this to the mosquito, taking advantage of the extraordinary conditions of the pandemic. That is why I accuse you of now trying. You are once again trying to make use of the exceptional conditions of the pandemic, in order to bring something to the vote which is contrary to the vast majority of the academic community. Who's gonna answer that, you tell me. The polls? We have now found a priest to bury five, six. So I'm telling you this, and there's no point in contesting it. Does this legislative initiative bring reactions? He's got reactions. Are the reactions reasonable? The reactions always make sense. And our government legislated on the critical and sensitive issues of education and we had reactions. There's always a reaction. Are these reactions within the democratic function? It is always in the context of democratic operation. A democracy must have the dialogue, a democracy must have the opposite, a democracy must have the protest and even the demonstration. And I now come to a very critical, in my view, issue. Gentlemen of the government must stop, especially after the fiasco of Ikaria, progress in misery, in order to gather the unbeatables from the images of Mr. Mitsotakis. Because these misery exposes you even more and demonstrates an anti-democratic culture. Sports first is the attempt that took place last Saturday, in order to ensure that these images that made the internet round too fast do not show up on TV screens. I want to tell you it's in vain this trouble. We are not at the time when what is not shown on television is not there. Previously, it may have happened in times when technology was not possible. Today technology, the internet, can't hide the truth. And the TVs were forced to show it. The second was the posting of instructions by the invisible editor in the public television editor's editing room, which urged producers not to play photographs and videos from your MP Ikaria's terrace, but also Mr Lignade's footage with others. Who are these other truths? Who are those other people who suddenly shouldn't have played next to Mr. Lignade, who for over two weeks had been covered by Mrs. Mendoni? I don't know if she did it on her own or on orders from above. Listen, I'm afraid we've had too many years to see this on public television. My generation didn't live that. Even at the scenes of the "Luffa and Difference" by YENED there were no such footage. YENED Couple has become public television, which immediately after the elections, by law, has been under the responsibility of the Prime Minister himself. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ignorance third. The attempt yesterday by this terrible and terrible spokesman of the New Democracy, who ran around the channels and tried to equate the Koronolenti of Ikaria with my official visit to Patras, where I met representatives of institutions, respecting all protection measures. So she was trying to equate the misery of Ikaria and the party of the infamous Prime Minister with a planned and public announcement in front of cameras meeting, which during her entire time we wore masks and had no coffee with representatives of professional bodies, especially the focus. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Of course, when you get to the point of commenting on even the second page of "KATHMERINI" that you are oppositioning the "Taperaki" with "Taperaki" and adopting the most disgraceful populism, you are supposed to face the populism of counterpopulation, then you must understand that at best you have a communication policy for the festivals! Not the critics, because these are nice festivities, they have rhythm, they have beginning, middle and end. You have made communication policy for festivals without rhythm and without substance. Sadness fourth and most important. The attempt of the Government representative last night - and I am saddened, because he is a new politician, who very quickly adopts such methods of geblinic inspiration - to change the words deliberately from my interview at the AlPHA TV station and Mr Schrotter in order to give the impression that I personally take the risk of epidemiological deterioration by the protests of citizens and especially students. The reporter asked me if I accept that there is a risk. And I have responded, of course, and I therefore ask the government not to proceed to legislate at these times of a bill that creates reactions, whether it really wants and whether it cares so that there is no epidemiological risk. But I accept that there's a risk, and I'm taking the risk. Did your representative not understand that? Apparently, he got it. But, there, at this point of misery, you've stumbled. Fake news, distorted and changed words try to create impressions. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be very clear, because all you do is obviously because you have the impression - and it is true - that you have a terrible communication superpower that gives you the opportunity - to say it popular and forgive me - to do what you like. Why does the Prime Minister not respect the measures? Because he may not comply with the measures. Why, for two months now - Mr President, I also address you - which I have asked for a debate in this House on the issues of democracy, which I am putting here today, do not plan for you? Because that's the way it is! Why did the Prime Minister refuse - now I learned - to discuss on Friday the timely question I asked him about this picture he showed in Ikaria and whether it is in line with the attempt to persuade the citizens to comply with the measures? He's not coming to answer. Why? Because that's what he wants. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot rush either the truth or democracy itself. So I ask you to take responsibility. Your government should take responsibility. It is right that your attempt to legislate in a sensitive area of education and even to legislate in molluscs. Take responsibility for both the democracies, but take responsibility for this, for the fact that if you do not suspend the discussion and vote procedure today, there will be reasonable reactions, reasonable protests, reasonable protests, which may worsen, as many people say, the epidemiological situation in Athens and other cities. You take responsibility. So I ask you at the very last moment to suspend the debate and the vote of the bill. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Inhibit the debate and vote of the bill in conditions of intense pandemic. Of course, this would also be the best act that would lead to degression and protests and mergers. And bring the same bill, don't change a line, as soon as we can talk about it in conditions of greater comfort, not with the tampering cracks of infection, the spread of the virus over our head. Bring the exact same bill, but stop shrinking democracy. Stop, mostly, playing game with responsibilities for spreading the virus. Democracy is not quarantine. And the students, the teachers, the academic teachers are judging you today, Mrs. Kerameau. And they judge you for the essence of your bill, but they judge you in particular for your anti-democratic practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u61	We shall proceed as follows: I shall give the floor to Minister Kerameos for five to six minutes, obviously not to make her speech, but to answer Mr Tsipras. Then we will continue with two colleagues, Mr Davakis and Mr Zachariadis, and then the Deputy Minister of State will make his speech. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry the Chief of Police has chosen not to listen to the opponent. Six Copy Points. Point one: Mr. Tsipras said that we are bringing this bill to the mushrooms. Really? This bill on mushrooms? The bill that has been debated more than a lot of bills, months, entire weeks? Exceptionally and to the honour of the President and the Conference of Presidents, the longest possible debate was chosen in plenary. Over a hundred fifty MPs have been registered to speak, and are they in the molluscs? So the proposal from the Officerate is clear: we are locking the House as long as the pandemic lasts. Let's not legislate, let's not let the country move forward, let's wait. It's the same logic we lock the schools from the first day of the pandemic to the last. Point 2: Mr Tsipras said: 'You have all the prerogatives against you.' The exterior agrees with the minimum import base, agrees with the specific number of options in computerized, controlled entry, and agrees that there is a serious problem of lawlessness in universities. Not everyone agrees on the solution. That's the situation. Does he argue who? Public opinion? Let's see what the investigations say, because on one thing Mr. Tsipras is right. The bill raises reactions. What reactions, though? Infectious reactions to SYRIZA raises the bill! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And I'll be very specific. "Controled entry", voters SYRIZA: Over 60%. 'Base of introduction', voters SYRIZA: Over 52%! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And here is the best, ladies and gentlemen! "University Police", voters SYRIZA: For almost 40%! That's public opinion. So, yes, it causes internal reactions to SYRIZA! And, really, how much do we need to discuss whether it is normal to enter the Greek university with '1' and '2' in '20'? How long do we have to discuss whether it's normal to be a student for twenty and thirty years? How much do we need to discuss whether it is normal to enter a section, which had chosen as two hundred and fifty? - select two hundred fifty options! - and end up in a random choice? Point 3. So many conversations, but have we heard of a proposal? And I ask Mr. Tsipras straight! The only suggestion, Mr. Tsipras, that has been heard is that of your Minister, Mr. Marda, who said what? Incognito police students. Is that SYRIZA's proposal? You can tell us right away, because we haven't heard. It's the only suggestion we've heard. Point 4. He said "less than twenty-four thousand invaders". First of all, I would like to ask: How exactly have you calculated this, given that the number of importers will ultimately be determined on the basis of the performance of pupils, firstly, how will they write and, secondly, the minimum import base that universities themselves will choose? And in any case, do we have to agree that we should as a country upgrade academic conditions for admission to university, upgrade studies? And agree from now on? That's not a path of educational elevation. The university is a very important road, it's not unique. Do not show, gentlemen of SYRIZA, such a depreciation to vocational education and training, to treat those who are trained in public IEK with such a depreciation. This is an offense to our country!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u63	Aren't you embarrassed? You assimilated the three-year...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u64	Calm down, please. All right! Not even the side here agrees with what your Chief said. But no one interrupted him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u65	Fifth point. The leader of SYRIZA, Mr President, spoke of an equation - he says - of professional rights. How many make news? What equation? What equation exactly? Which these people are foreign university graduates. Your government with decisions Friend, Gavroglou and the others gave them the right for the first time - for the first time! -... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...to be enrolled in public education, and that's right - why? - Because it's Union law. That's why! Because as the Greek may study in France and Germany, this should also be the case vice versa. So Europe's card is in SYRIZA time. In New Democracy, he is responsible for the government, a government responsible for taking the benefits of Europe, but he realizes that Europe operates in rules. Point 6 and I'm closing, Mr. President. Yesterday, the Chief of Staff Response made an unprecedented statement. He tried to reconstruct her today. Perhaps that is why the House wants to close down so that we do not talk about what it said yesterday. He said: 'I certainly take the risk'. What was the question? The risk of some people sticking to such a gathering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u66	It's a malicious thing to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u67	'Do I accept' I say - the word I am looking after - the risk of someone getting sick? So, he accepts that responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u68	Calm down, Mr. Comrade. Your party's position has been heard by Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u69	It's malignant!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u70	We won't censor the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u71	This cannot be done, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u72	Calm down! For God's sake! You're an old colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we are saying this very clearly on the part of the government. The debate in this House will not stop, to stop the debate on the unprecedented statement made by the Chief of Officerial Opposition! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because that's SYRIZA! In the morning, he protests and without elementary distances, and at noon he comes and complains that cases have increased! Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people judge! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u74	Good. We're on our way, just like we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Skourlet, you have spoken. Your Chief spoke. I have already announced the next two speakers. We're not interrupting. You have spoken as a parliamentarian. I'll give you the floor, I'll record it. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u77	Not now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u78	Not now. I had announced two, Mr. Davakis and Mr. Zachariadis. I've named them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, for a minute I have asked for the floor. I'd be done already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Davakis, please sit down on the first seat. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I will take the floor after Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. I would like to remind Mrs Kerameros and to clarify that, in fact, the amendment you have put to bring about the equalisation of the professional rights of private colleges has come to the nuts lately. I do not believe that you have spoken with the Chamber of Technical Chambers or with the other professional associations and it was too late, as my colleague is reminding me at the moment. Secondly, Mr. Souflias, Mr. Fortsakis, Mr. Kyrchos, Mr. Mars Spiliotopoulos have not entered SYRIZA. I assure you. I have been a secretary of this Party and I know who they are members. It's in New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u83	What about Mr. Mardas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u84	Madam Minister, please! Members must also speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u85	Suggestions have been put forward here all weekend and for what you did not do in relation to health protection issues, for example schools, and in relation to the coverage of gaps. I told you a little while ago some very specific. What we in nothing will agree on is in relation to the barriers you place in education. What can we do? And the top of all is that you found out to get 1% of the elf high school, the seven hundred espresso kids who entered their sword into higher education! Are they reducing university level? You abolished that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Skourlet, you will never speak again! It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u87	And, finally, you can't say the same thing for the third time. I told you 'copy-paste Portuguese' is not a good consultant in relation to the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u88	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u89	...of Alexis Tsipras' statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u90	Because Mr. Skourletis, even though he's taken dentistry, I gave him a minute, I'll give Mr. Brutsi two minutes, because I have to be objective. Here you go, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u91	And you're doing well, Mr. President. We should at least keep the balances, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has spoken several times today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u92	All right, you have your speeches in front of you. No one will deprive you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by saying that it is clear now that Mr Tsipras came to the plenary to apologize and revise the disastrous mistake he made yesterday. That's what happened. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the ten minutes that he spoke, he last kept as a controversial subject, and even said that he "is the most important" what he said yesterday - in his position at the "ALPHA" television station in his interview - overthrowed the entire Greek people, who said the terrible line - which he condemned - that he was taking the risk of pandemic in case of gatherings that he calls himself and his party! That's what he did today, and that was his location. But he did not, because he did not fundamentally change his position. He tried to cover up again, justifying both today's gathering and any concentration within this environment. That is the reality, Mr President. However, I will say about the misery that he mentioned what my perspective is on athletics is. It is a disgrace, Mr Tsipras - which is absent and has not been able to hear the opposite - to admit that there is a problem with pandemic throughout the world, like in our country, to say that there is a problem of seriousness and at the same time to relinquish the government because it is taking action. This is misery, gentlemen of SYRIZA. It is disgraceful to say that the government is bringing about a bill - which we call reform and structural change for the future of the country - without dialogue, at the moment that the government is committing itself to this bill and in the run-up to the elections, and it is a bill which has become the most extensive in the time of dialogue and with social bodies and with the university community and parliamentary dialogue, the procedure that is provided for in the process. And also misery, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is to come the Chief of Officer Anti-Population and adopt unreasonably fast news, which are circulated, papers that anyone could make for ERT and admit it as a real event. That's the misery! That's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u94	Finish it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u95	I'm closing, Mr. President. In any case, the answer is that the question of education is a very serious issue, there is a common denominator that there is a problem and this government of Mr Mitsotakis has the responsibility to change the future. We owe it to the new generations of our country. We will solve the pathogenesias of years and this bill will go ahead for the good of Greece, as we have committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Davakis has the floor. As I told you, then Mr Zachariadis will take the floor, then Mr Syrigos, then I say the next three colleagues to prepare them, Mr Gikas, Mrs Malama and Mr Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, do we have a right to secondary education?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u98	Your dentistry doesn't deprive you of it. You may want to use tomorrow, dear Mr. Scandalidis. Well, he doesn't. Anytime. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now observing the ambitious effort of the Opposition to oppose this essential, I would say, a move to rationalise and modernise the Greek university which the government is trying to make. It's an honest effort, but, unfortunately, it's incomplete. He is perfect, for the Greek people see us all. Nothing passes, like Mr. Tsipras, to the mussels. With a hundred and fifty fellow speakers, in full transparency, clarity and, in any case, public account, this government is trying and implementing the programme for which the Greek people have elected it. And, indeed, it is trying in an area such as the public university, which all of us New Democracy Members know is the core of the ideology of this popular party which is the New Democracy. Because this fact, more than anything else, is of interest to the people's family, which, when the Greek university is in the situation today - not at all at all levels and at all universities, but in the specific flagrant cases - is, above all, the one that is affected and which wants to change the fate of its children and create a happy prospect for them. We are not the ones who, as Mr Skourletis said before, want the son of the cooler to remain cool, without meaning anything about this particular, kind and especially necessary because of climate change. We are that side which is struggling with its recommendation to change the fate of the Greek people, to make the Greek people better and to create, as I said before, a good prospect for him and his children and through Greek education! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What is happening today at the Greek University, in the emblematics, will I repeat - with emblems - Greek universities honour us? Do we want it? When yesterday - just recently, Mr Skourletis - the previous speaker, Mr Tsipras said that there is a serious problem affecting the concept of asylum. 'Very problem'. It's his words. Unless it was someone else and the imitator. But it was his voice. 'Today...' - says - '...a debate on the ASE in a round table cannot be held'. You realise that what today makes us legislate is the necessity, which has come from various factors, from the pathogens of left and post-multiple, which has created a situation of these events at universities and all that compose this explosive climate. I believe that the infringing groups, which cross the concept of democracy and the notion of academic freedom and which defend themselves, should not exist. It is a 'necessary evil', as Mr Yiannis Loverdos said earlier, which can give us concerns, but there must be, in order to bring about what we all want to be at the Greek university. Are we happy with eternal students? Are we pleased with the hostage status that the dean of the Economic University, who these gentlemen have taken it off the Internet and on social media, has? Are we happy that objectively someone who did not write well, who did not go well in the written examinations, has to become a student? On the contrary, in relation to what the opposition claims, the vast majority of Greek citizens, as the Minister said earlier, are in favour of this legislation which creates a climate of calm and security for the majority of Greek students who want to study. Today, we are here to support these specific decisions. As the President-in-Office of the Council also rightly said, in addition to these legislative initiatives and interventions by the Government, he must systematically see the question of the evaluation of university teachers and accountability to all of us, especially the Greek people, who, in any case, pays the meaning of what we now call a university. In conclusion, I would like to say that academic freedom is not at risk from the police. An enemy of academic freedom is not the police or the state. The state is a funder of universities. It must be and must be for the State to have and enforce this freedom, that peace which it needs. The opposition speech, which you have put forward for so many hours, I do not think is intriguing the majority of the Greek people. You need to support this bill, because the Left, in all appearances both from the radical and from the communist, was that - at least, he says - which was in favour of the Greek university and of freedom of speech. What makes us support this bill today is that at last there must be rationalisation and calmness at the Greek university, so that the children - I repeat what I started with - of the Greek people to study and create a better perspective for their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u100	Mr Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u101	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have brought the amendment into an unrelated bill. Is that a lie? Have you warned that the amendment will come? So why should we be involved and not speak honestly and honestly about our differences? I understand how you are dealing with the fact that we do not need it in Parliament. What should we do with it? We'll only have polls. We don't need politicians. We only need pollsters. We'll do the polls, get the result, you'll be legislated. Can't you just respect yourself and the political system? What are you and your party saying, Mrs. Kerameau? Are you telling us that the political and physical presence, but also the policy being pursued, is a process which is the printing of polls? So if one thing is a matter of principles, values, believe it and not a majority, will you move it forward for the sake of the country or not? If you think that politics or politicians are the products of polling, we have a completely different view of democracy and politics. But did you say that for the amendment, Mr Stasinos from the Technical Chamber is SYRIZA? Is SYRIZA in charge of this? Those who denounced you are not SYRIZA. None of this has anything to do with SYRIZA. It's just that people are out on the tiles with your policy. What are you doing now? You hide your politics behind the pandemic. Afraid of society and exploit pandemic as an opportunity. No one protests to get sick, or he or the others. But you put the pandemic ahead so you don't have any reactions to education. And that is political courage and political cowardice. I want to believe that what the Prime Minister said yesterday about half a mile is indeed half. I would remind you that on 12 January Mr Mitsotakis told us that two million of our fellow citizens would be vaccinated by the end of March. At today's rate, I can't see it coming out. I wish I was wrong and not the Prime Minister. In order not to remember Mr Pecha, who said on 3 December, he estimates that there will be two million and seventeen thousand four hundred forty vaccinations a month from the first month of the new year. 'We are entering a new hard lockdown and we want to succeed'. I would remind you, however, of some things at the National Representation to hear from the citizens who are struggling. On November 7, we closed for three weeks so we could have a normal Christmas. I would remind you that the main measure at the time was limiting traffic after 9 p.m. at night. That's never changed. And today we're going to tougher measures. What have you done all this time when scientists and counterpopulation were warning about a third wave or, even better, a second wave in southern Greece? Are we ready or will we be looking again in a few days for individual responsibilities? What causes great concern, not only is the pressure on the health system in terms of lack of COVID beds and IF beds. This is the one side. Have you been in touch in Attica in time with the private sector, which has great power in ICU beds? Will you check the ITH beds if we get back to the limit, or will what has happened in Thessaloniki with the private centers that declared unprepared? Let's go to war. Get ready even now. What preparation did you make to support the sanitary? The absence of doctors and nurses, the enormous tiredness of health, the 'burn out', shows a significant deficit in preparation. You weren't listening. You didn't want to hire. I want to believe that this is not going to be fateful and this obsession with you. It is clear that we have a very big problem in Attica. How many tests are we doing? Can we do more? Can we do more targeted? Is it really to wonder: Do you have a plan, have you the initiative of moves, or are you running behind your anxiety and events? What happened yesterday in Ikaria shows that we cannot trust you. We made Easter away from our own people, made Christmas in small groups of nine people, went to hard lockdown, at weekends we won't be released after 18.00 in the afternoon, for the past three months we don't have to be released after 21.00 in the evening, this year's Easter will be difficult and the Prime Minister goes to Ikaria and make fuses. There's beungals in the reception, sippings and gaskets on the street, dozens of people's meals. Has the Prime Minister believed that it really is Moses? Where do you really live? Don't you feel? Don't you feel? Do you have a picture of which country you rule? You cause the people's intelligence every day, you insult them. You challenge the world of focus that has been exterminated, suffering, who is helpless in pandemic. The Minister for Development, who is also in the Chamber, invites them to deliver the keys. Have you been delivered, Minister, keys? What happened? Did you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u103	Not Mr. Mitsotakis behaves as Prime Minister, but as a ruler. He doesn't see civilians, he sees subjects. The arrogance and the existence of exile has blinded everyone and everything. Did you envy the New Democrats who went to Dubai for a New Year's Day? Because that's not the first time that's been happening. The Prime Minister's environment, as we remember very well, was this - and again I address you, Minister - which at the end of December was vaccinated, taking the order from the ninety people. What do you do, Minister, a younger man forty-five years old, who plays a marathon, play tennis, go to the end of December and get vaccinated, taking the turn of a ninety-year-old? Is there no shame in that? This is the spirit of the New Democracy, however, to puncture, to get in the first place. Fortunately, not everyone came in. So in this tough lockdown, Mr Chrysochoidis and Mrs Kerameo bring the bill and say that we need university police. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have another minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u104	The bill, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u105	The bill. But there is nowhere in the West, no university police anywhere in Europe. Nowhere! In Turkey, there is, Mrs. Kerameau. Is that your model? Minister of Erdogan, do you dream that you are? Did you hear what the beatings say? Did you hear what the perpetrators say? Of course, there may be a problem in some universities. Over there to strengthen security services. And if there's such a problem that they can't deal with, they can intervene normally, on the basis of the Senate, the police. But here we are in a country where from this step the Prime Minister told us in April that there are no money. Yes, sir! Let's just say there's no money. In the question, therefore, 'a thousand doctors or a thousand special guards', you answer 'thousand special guards'. In the question 'thousand permanent nurses or a thousand special guards?' You respond 'thousands of special guards'. In the question 'thousand ICPs or a thousand special guards?' You respond 'thousands of special guards'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u106	Close, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u107	So here's where there's money trees and where there's no money trees. I'd like to say more...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u108	No, you are not going to say, but because many colleagues still have to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u109	I close with this: it has reacted to a series of world and conservative policies. Mr. Souflias, Mr. Fortsakis, Mr. Spiliotopoulos. But I would like to close with this proposal, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u110	But close it, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u111	When the progressive forces in the country become a majority again and we will be in the government, this bill will be abolished and Greece will be aligned in the universities with those that apply to European data. Thank you very much. Thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u112	Good. Now here's what's happened. Mr Georgiadis came and asked me, as Minister, for a three-minute intervention and I said, "Forget it, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and I am not giving you the floor". You have now made three references to Mr. Georgiadis's face...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u113	I've got a weakness for him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u114	You have him weak, but now he is rightly asking for the floor on staff, and I am obliged to give him three minutes. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u115	They are agreed, Mr President. Don't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Philie, now I didn't want to say it. But you did. Come on, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u117	And the keys...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, the truth is that we did not have them agreed, but I thank him. It was helpful. For the keys, so I don't get past it. My reference to the keys has been misunderstood and I apologize to him. It was in the nature of concentrating operations on the measures that we have given them and the additional measures we give them, in our opinion they will still be worthy, they will be able to do so in the future, and in the end you will see that everything will be fine. If some of them were offended, I gave my explanation. After all, I have met with the trade union representatives twice since and there is no question. So don't rush! On the subject of vaccination, which Mr Zachariadis has raised - and he has done so a little on staff - I should like to make it clear: I - and the other ministers as far as I know - had not asked to be vaccinated. The National Committee for Vaccines has suddenly informed us in my office, "Tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. to go do the dose of your vaccine, because we decided that the members of the Government should do the same. I didn't ask or ask. They told me "go" and I went. After the fuss - and rightly so, not unfairly - this decision came to light. So why are you blaming me? Why did someone call me and told me 'we decided to go get vaccinated'? And you blame me, Mr. Zachariadis? But now we're going to the bill. Mr President, I will just say a few words about it and I close it. I won't be late at all. I have come because I want to publicly congratulate Mrs Kerameau on her enormous political courage to stand up and after so many years of saying in this Chamber the same things, that she should be the Minister of Education who has come and legislated them and turned them around and, finally, the universities, but also to blame the Left and the Friend, who I see before and keep talking about deep hypocrisy. Here's your hypocrisy, Mr. Philie. I was elected a Member for the first time in 2007. Since then, my fellow citizens have re-elected me in five successive elections, six counting the double of 2012. I became MP, Parliamentary Representative, State Secretary, Minister, Vice-President of the New Democracy and I cannot go to a university in Greece. Throughout my fourteen-year term, it was twice invited to a university, Panteion and Lawyer, and twice my speech was canceled by trumpets who entered with bats. And I now ask you all the hypocrites on the Left: Have you heard this famous phrase: 'I disagree with what you say, but will I defend your right to die'? You, the friend, you're a decent man and I respect you, do you accept living in a country where a fellow citizen of yours, with whom you totally disagree, doesn't have the slightest right to go to express his opinion, even a guest of the university students? And you're going past that and you're not giving any answers to this? What is the Left's proposal for me, Adonis Georgiadis, to go to a university and express my political views, since you like freedom of speech? You have no answer. Do you know what you're saying? Don't talk, Georgiades. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u119	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u120	This, however, is not a democracy, nor is it, for which you are supposedly tired, nor a freedom of speech, for which you are supposed to be cutting, nor human rights are you, as you are supposed to be, tired!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Georgiadis, close now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u122	I'm hanging up. So what are you actually talking about? You say: we want them to continue in universities to be able to speak only to those who like us. That's why you're hypocrites. That is why they deserve 'bravo' to Mrs Kerameos, which restores democracy and freedom of speech to universities! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u123	Don't shout. There's no need for voices. The microphones are sensitive!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u125	Now do you understand what a little game we're playing? And parliamentarians have been waiting since morning in the Chamber! Mr. Friend, I can't blame you. You have the floor for a minute. And I don't give the floor to anyone either on personal or on personal grounds. We are doing a 'period', we are talking, and then the Members are waiting! Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. I understand the need for Mrs Kerameo and Mr Georgiadis to congratulate each other. Their position in both society and opinion polls is bad. But that's their thing. On the question raised by Mr Georgiadis, I would say that everyone has the right to say - no-one is granting it, the Constitution, the democratic order requires it - to speak everywhere, in all places. And in the midsts. And that's a place. And that is where I do not see any possibility of expressing all views on an equal footing. But I'm going through this. Mr. Georgiadis complains he can't speak to the universities. I don't know what kind of key he's got that thing saying. But I wonder, with a thousand hundred extraspeaking guards, will he speak to the universities? Is that why he hired them? With police rule, will he speak to the universities? Is that the intention and the proposal in Greek society? Police to allow Mr. Georgiadis to speak? It is unreasonable what is being heard and shown in my view that there is a return of your party to the 1960 ERA. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u127	However, Mr Philly, because I come from EPE youth, because I am quite old enough, I do not feel any shame in being an EPE youth and I do not think I am less democratic than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u128	EKOV, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u129	You told ETUC. I talked about EPE youth, and I was absolutely...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u130	Let me fix it, C.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u131	What you're saying is different. I accept your correction. The Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Syrgos, has the floor. The State Secretary will make his normal speech. I'm saying this so you don't get weird about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the meeting, speaking at the hearing of the institutions, said: "Many times, under the weight of special circumstances, or because there is a poorly understood cooperation with specific forces within the universities, they do not do their job well." What did he mean by "special circumstances"? What did he mean by 'badly conscientious cooperation with certain forces'? What are these special conditions and specific powers? Today we will see what is behind these words. Is academic freedom protected today in Greek AEI? The answer to the vast majority of Greek universities is clearly affirmative. If I even compared the universities of today with the mid-1980s, when I had entered the law school in Athens, I would say that it is the heavens with the earth. The majority of students then didn't know what a library was. We didn't know how to write a job. We knew the amphitheaters only through the conventions. The students today are much more diligent, much more serious about what they do, I would say more stressful, because they know that they compete with other students in other European countries. Teachers are also at a high level. While in the 1980s, today's teachers attended new currents and international developments. Not only do they fall short of them, but in many cases they are more than their respective colleagues abroad. So if that's the case, what's the problem? The problem is that marginal groups, often completely irrelevant to the student community, make their revolutionary gymnastics in the Greek AEI. The more massive, the more intense their presence. They make noises, write slogans, trample, systematically vandalize public university spaces, threaten and prejudice, they want to terrorise. They move with hate. The word 'hate' is heavy, but unfortunately it is the reality. You see it in their posters, in the way they react, even when you talk to them calmly. For example, I quote some of their posters. One of their favorite expressions: 'Down your dry!' Another: “Seeing enemies in the faces of our fellow students, May 12, 2016. A third: "As of the University of ASE shall be war, 21 June 2014. They think they're in constant war with the system, with the police, with the state, with everyone. The brutality of their presence has highlighted for decades the certainty of absolute impunity in the spaces of the IOA. Academic freedom has been going through the heat of these marginal groups that by violent means, through fear, want to set its limits. "Fear" is the critical word. Through communications and texts of the last decade, I will therefore speak to you about academic freedom and fear. Academic freedom is based on three pillars: freedom of science, freedom of research, freedom of teaching. Is there freedom of science? I read you from a booklet released in March - April 2017 entitled “How many bastards do they fit in Panteion?” He says: "An anti-crime policy is not left-wing or right-wing. It's a state strategy to control the multinational working class. Forensicists are bodies and creators of the Greek state's strategies for its sovereignty in the public space and for the life of the multinational proletariat. They are theorists of war against the inner enemy." What does this brochure say to us? He tells us that these people deny forensics in general, because he cooperates with the state. But is it only the science of forensics that disturbs? I read to you by another poster of 7 April 2017: "The Department of International Relations advises Greek imperialism. The Departments of Metsovio Polytechnic offer the logistical infrastructure of the controlled movement of migrant proletarians. The Cyprus Intercultural Educational Programmes of Pedagogy..." and so on. Another notice on 23 November 2018: ‘Legal teachers propose new legal terminology. They strengthen the patronage of judges and prosecutors. Their participation in the legislators - there is the problem, that they are involved in the legislators - in teaching in schools and in contributing to the award of civil justice are the ones that frame and manipulate the police - the judiciary complex. The defenders of civil justice say: you have no reason to sleep in peace." On March 23, 2017: “Aside from the anthropologists, next to the political scientists, there are dozens of interethnicists, dozens of geopolitical analysts, dozens of criminologists, dozens of agents and cops. They're professors at the university, researchers at the think tanks, agents. We have a problem with the teachers of the Panteion, we have a problem with their jobs." Now we go to the second pillar of academic freedom. Is there freedom of investigation? Posted on May 14, 2015: “All these universities, universities, polytechnics, teachers, researchers and workshops participate in the war against the multinational proletariat. The age of innocence ends to know. The war appears at your doors." Second poster, recent on May 20, 2019, in the middle of a coronary. “In December 2018, the Democritus University signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Hellenic Army. A second memorandum of cooperation between the Department of Electrical Engineering in Xanthi and the Second Army Corps is signed in April 2019. We are experiencing a constant militarisation of our lives by state and capital. The time has come to change them." A good list of how they perceive the freedom of research is included in a notice of 26 March 2019. It starts from the Department of Electrical Engineering in 2011, which manufactures thermal cameras, moves on to another department of the Polytechnic, which participates in the program "POSEDERS", continues in various cases, disturbs everything. It is annoyed because PAPI organized an international seminar on "Hybrid War" or because Panteion organized a master's degree with the participation of graduates from the School of National Defence. And what's wrong with you telling me to have a different view of such projects at the university? Obviously, it does not matter if he uses peaceful means to express his disagreement. And here we reach the third pillar of academic freedom, freedom of teaching. Why all that I told you about how they translate into practice? Very simple attacks on teachers. On 28 February 2018: “Today, on 28 February 2018, we attacked his office...”, which said “the professor of forensics in...”, “...university as a sign of minimal solidarity with our partner Dino Doctorzoglou”. What was the professor's crime? "On 25-1-2018 he made an annual educational visit to his students..." he said "...a postgraduate degree in the Department of Criminal Studies of EL.AS." What's the second crime? "Worked on Wednesday, January 30, 2013" - six years before the attack - "in the Amphitheatre of Technopolis in Gazi, on the subject of "City, Crime and Insecurity". During the event, rapporteurs were, among other things, Mr. George Kamines - then mayor - "on the issue of violence in Athens". That's why they attacked him. Another attack: “For Thursday, February 13, 2020, is a scheduled lecture on “Progress in the field of hydrocarbons”. The main speaker is the "h" professor at the Department of Geology at the Department of Geology, which contributes to the plundering and destruction of the natural world, militarism and nationalism. On the occasion of participation, we made him today a propaganda intervention..." - you know, these nice terms - "... across the entire wing of the Aristotle Geology with spray and haircuts." Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the protection of individuals with "A intervention was made in the law, at the offices of the teachers," he said. What's their sin? 'Teaching at the Court School'. Why is this an intervention? ‘For solidarity with the captive state of Spyros Christodoulou.’ What was the result? They whacked the student of Criminal Law, filling the walls with slogans. Mr. President, will you give me two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u133	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u134	Another notice on September 18, 2019: "We proceeded to record slogans in her office..." such a teacher - for obvious reasons, I do not want to expose them more to people, and that is why I am not referring to their names explicitly - "... and in her classrooms, wanting to let her know our presence in school and warn her to change tactics as she will find us in front of her." It's photography timeliness. It has released this seven-page brochure, dedicated to "the new fascism or the many scumbags that fit in Panteion", which specifically mentions two parts of the Panteion, the Department of International Relations, in which I also participated the Department of Sociology - Forensics. The brochure contains pictures of nine teachers with their specifications. On 7 October 2015, a poster: ‘This teacher is a safety rat’. Poster on June 19, 2014: photo always, “This teacher is a liar”. Why? "Because our students who do not belong to the Board of Directors. They reacted to his provocative attitude. He continued to threaten them with a final result to accept a coffee to the face.' They sent him to the hospital, parentheses. Sometimes, because they don't have pictures, it's enough to list the name of the trial. Poster with nineteen names of professors from the University of the Aegean and with their sections listed next door. What's their sin? They signed a text saying 'a dialogue in higher education can and should only be done with open schools'. What punishment does the poster hold them? "Now that the schools have opened up to see you run. Footnote: any connection with persons and situations is fully targeted’. Ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean to have declared you? You can't walk, gentlemen, on the road without fearing something might happen to you. That's to take pictures of you. Because a lot has been said about the beatings, as I have said in the committee, the pretexts that will dare to seek criminal offences from the police will be one or two days with the police and the remaining three hundred sixty days of the year will be with these groups. Photo dean with a chilling mustache and the title "The" these "university belongs to MATs". Photo by the third dean of 2018 ‘Address the new fascism’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u135	Minister, slow down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u136	Yes, sir. It's also accompanied by notices. I read to you, on 7 January 2018: ‘We have chosen to return a share of the violence that we receive every day. On 20 December we visited the office of PAMAK's dean, where we simply vandalised the dean's office, sending him a clear message that the so-called and his actions bring similar consequences." On October 9, 2020, we entered the dean's office and attacked the dean's office and the conference room with hammers, paints and sprays, causing extensive damage. The dean was fled through the back door." Another proclamation, Mr President: 'We have made two visits in the city of Thessaloniki over the last few days, why did we do so? Because we promised not to forget. We found the residence of the dean of Aristotle on this road and we threw paints and tiles on the entrance." Some place here stops walking inside the Greek university. I told you about fear. I told you about all these teams that were blossoming with the message that they are living in the HEIs that are all allowed. Their existence used to coexist with indifference at times with the reasonable fear "where I go to get mixed up with the bums". Hooliganism, barbarism, vandalism and plight cannot be baptized politically. They're a heavy antisocial behavior. We're not disturbed by their opinions. We are disturbed by the violence they practice and the fear of those who include in their specifications, in their notices. Fear is not theoretical, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Syragos, please don't put me in a more difficult position. Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u138	Who does this all cost? They account for academic freedom of science, research and teaching. They cost the Greek citizen, who literally pays the brokens of the supreme good offered by the state, free education, which allows mobility of classes and gives access to each Greek to be shaped for free. Help to act in the Greek HEI the phrase of King Ferraios "whoever freely thinks, thinks well". Help rid Greek universities of the terrorism of some marginal groups, who insist on their opinion with fear and violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u139	The reason why I'm being pushy is that we're at the number seventy-seven at the level of colleagues and a hundred fifty-six have been written in total. You understand, don't you? As I said, Mr Gikas, Mrs Malama, Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Chrysochoidis, Mr Arsenis, who has been invaded by agreement of the Bureau in order for his party to be present, Mrs Dunia and Mr Famelos to be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u141	As long as I was in the Bureau, you did not ask me to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u142	I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u143	You have a right to speak. Whenever you want, you'll tell me. You didn't ask me. You asked me for intervention and I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u144	I asked before. You should have been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u145	Okay, that's fine. You'll talk whatever time you want. Mr. Gikas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, the draft law under discussion is part of the broader reform work of the Ministry of Education and is aimed at creating a modern higher education that focuses on the future of this country, that is, our youth and, of course, the further upgrading of our universities. By taking a step back and looking at the arrangements, without party bumpers and sterile opposition mood, we find that the essence of the draft law is to solve problems that, I would say, so many years are burdensome and do not offer good services to our universities or students. I want to refer to three - four specific issues which I consider to be very important and which this bill regulates. First, a minimum basis for import. The introduction to university with a degree low, '5', '6', '7', even '9', is not a good spectacle, it is not a nice spectacle. It reduces the authority of universities, departments and, in general, academic schools. That is why the draft law establishes the minimum import base. It is crucial to say that the higher education institutions, which acquire freedom and autonomy, are involved in this process to determine the minimum import base and the coefficient of gravity of certain courses. In other words, they are given the opportunity to specify the criteria for introduction, based on the specificities of their studies and thus to better shape their academic knowledge. Of course, Minister, I have to say that there are some concerns - for example, I am transferring the concern of the Republican authorities of the Ionian University - that this system - which is positive, since the higher education institutions are involved - may be very much reduced for students in specific departments. We expect to see it, of course. I'm just recording it and transferring it. Secondly, it is a matter of computerization. Under the current system, a student can be introduced into the hundredth or even its two-tier choice. He is unfortunately given the opportunity to study something that he obviously does not care about, which is doubtful when and whether he will graduate and, of course, whether he will work in this area. In the same way, it denies the possibility for another child to follow this subject. So young people in this way of the dual computer system that they enter, are consciously choosing the schools they want to study on the basis of their calls and priorities. And here, Minister, I would like to give you a request, because in the first phase, 10% of the choices are foreseen for general high school. Some fields, such as health sciences, for example, that are a hundred and fifty sections, 10% are fifteen. The choice given to students who want to study medicine is relatively small. Maybe we could do that 10% 15%. To be twenty-two, that is, options. There are many children who may lose medicine for very few molecules and then in the second round, in the second phase they will not be able to enter schools they want, such as dentistry, biological, chemical departments, and go to lower schools. I place that, too. It's a matter that's been raised to me. It is very important that you finally regulate the issue of eternal students. I will say that the system you enter, the 4+2 and the 5+3, is perfectly rational and correct. Because - badly lies - in the country one out of three students so far we know that he will never graduate. So a brake comes in, and that's very important. I want to focus a little on protecting academic freedom. You know, when I was thirty years ago returning from the United States where I did some post-graduate studies, after a few months the Rectorship of the National Technical University was on fire. And it did make me the impression that these images had become a number one theme in the world. I could not imagine that twenty-seven years later, in 2018, there would still be extensive catastrophes in the Rectorship of Metsovio Polytechnics, as well as at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. For twenty-seven years, no government has dared to bring about something rhetoric that would change this system. Well, that government does. It goes on with the ban on entering anyone's university space and, of course, with a police force, yes, but at least it will impose order and it is for the safety and better functioning of our universities. In conclusion, I would like to read you out, which was an impression, when I first read it about two years ago and a few months ago. He said this, a distinguished legal servant for many years, who has basically proposed the following: "It is therefore a question of political will with common consent of all political parties to demarcate political asylum only for the freedom of speech and only for students, to prohibit the entry of non-university students, to establish university police and to allow the entry of the police with the command of the head of the university." He said that two and a half years ago - I retained it since then - Mr Leandros Rakinzis, a well-known servant of public life. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important bill, a reform section in the field of education. It upgrades our universities and, of course, helps the student community itself. That is why we are of course voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u147	Mrs Malama has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the universities we are discussing today is based on the most morbid imagination. Police, surveillance, cameras, disciplinary, punishment, surveillance are some of the measures that the government is trying to go through to make the universities of the country self - control and repression. The Ministry of Education with this bill delivers academic spaces, students, freedom of expression and knowledge to the hands of repression. The reason is very simple. Because, apparently, he fears thinking young people, fears academic question, fears new generations, fears ideas. With the provisions of this bill, academic rooms will not differ in anything from the home of Big Brother: cameras, image and sound recordings, freckles, brutal violation of the personal data of students and teachers. So your attitude towards the public university has been known for years. You want to shrink it. You want to merchandise it. You want to convert it into a closed, subordinated and downgraded breeding space of your own elite. That is why you are visualizing it as a camp or as a reformatory and not as a place of knowledge and scientific expertise. You've had the universities closed for a year. You canceled the creation of a series of university departments planned by the SYRIZA government to start this year. You canceled the application of free access for the lowest demand segments that would apply from the year that comes to us. Now you're planning to fly twenty-five thousand candidates out of higher education, blocking massive university departments and making children's computers look literally like lotteries. And the question of society is one: why so close to the public university? Why are they standing and where your executives are coming through the public university? Why at the time you leave the universities undersubscribed and unfunded, are you giving professional rights to colleges? Who are you with, with society or with the interests of colleges that our universities want shut down? You want to hire a thousand special guards to the higher education institutions and we ask you: Why do you not hire teachers? Why don't you hire teaching staff, administrative staff? Why don't you hire politicians to keep the premises at universities? There are such workers in all the big EHUs. There were at least earlier people who knew students, who had relations with children, who came in contact with the student community, to protect academic spaces. Why do you choose special guards? Apparently to combine suppression with your ruffles. You want to put cameras and audio recordings on amphitheaters. Where did you see that? What other university has this happened to Europe? Who sick mind has imagined that? You want to record the students, pass them through discipline and delete them. Why? What exactly are we afraid of? The political and trade union activities of young children? The university you vision is a cage, a shell of fear and discipline, precisely because you fear youth, because you fear scientific reasoning, because you fear academic freedom and question. The government is seeking to kill the social cells of questioning. It is trying to implement repressive measures at universities, measures which do not apply to land. And in this effort you do not even count on the Constitution or the Independent Privacy Authority. You decide to suspend academic freedom on your own and try to impose it on the police boot. We tell you to immediately withdraw this bill that runs counter to the interests of society and opposes the dreams of the new generation. There is no room in universities for special guards, not for peculiarities, not for surveillance or repression. The academic community has rejected your plans. We therefore call on you not to get caught by your parliamentary majority and get this piece of legislation back. Otherwise, you will have not only the universities, not just the students, but the entire Greek society. We tell you clearly, this piece of legislation, even if you vote for it today, has already been cancelled by the academic community and will not be implemented. We will fight the battle with the students, along with the teachers, along with the entire academic world, so that the universities don't become areas of government lawlessness. Democracy will work together and we will protect academic freedom. We owe this not only to the generations who struggled to be our universities free, but above all to the new generations that are coming, which are in front of us. So we tell you clearly: take it back. And if you don't listen, you know we'll get it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u149	I would like to ask Mr Varoufakis - if he is kind - to speak after Mr Papadimitriou, because I have announced him. Then Mr Varoufakis will speak and then he is the Minister and Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. I assume that colleagues present can convey to the President of SYRIZA that my conclusion since last night's "ALPHA" interview is that neither he has seen the film "Work-class goes to heaven". The fact that Mr. Schrooter, who's a peer, - two, three months must be different in age, well they're both - doesn't tell me much, but he tells me one: You still mean you don't understand that things are going on, they're going down. You still mean that you do not understand or want to understand - you certainly do not accept - that it is the requirement of the student world, primarily, to change the university, to build a university that responds to the effort they make and to the effort they have to make the next day. The dear Mr. Syrigos has quoted a number of cases and very nicely stressed that this is not the issue of ideas. It's the subject of violence. And that's what we have to be together for. I do not think there is anyone who has been prevented or who does not know very well that if he goes to say his opinion freely, if he does not have a party shield, if he does not have anyone to guard him in a few words - the worst thing that could happen to the dear Lulu in the film mentioned by the President of SYRIZA - is at stake. It is at stake by him who uses the name of academic freedom. However, we have resolved this here in the House some time ago how it can be done and move on a step further. So without it, he's in danger. The problem, then, is to make another effort, because it is an effort that no one took the risk - to say so, using Mr Tsipras's words - to make this move, as if the political world had been afraid for too many years. I'm not in favour of the police. Nor did Mr Chrysochoidis, who will speak later - had said so recently - wants to install the police in the universities. I think these are for very small children and those who disagree and wait for SYRIZA MPs and other colleagues to support them in the criminal things, they understand very well the game that is being played. The point here is that since in all ways we have not really managed to make universities a place of academic and practical freedom, let us try another measure. We'll be on top of them. We will be above Chrysochoid and we will control him, not just the House, but society, students first of all. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on you to come to the logic. I understand that everyone has his clientele. That's how it goes. This is how the market works, and so is the political market. I have no problem with that. But privately, I have never met anyone 30 years and years to talk to politicians, university students - I don't know how many friends I have teachers - with students - too many - young people not to tell me that this has somehow to change. We have an opportunity to do so and to do so by monitoring the implementation of this provision, which is limited, as far as the number of institutions and premises which are first to be kept and its responsibilities are concerned. However, Mr Phile - we have said so in open democracy, which is the freedom of speech, which we thank God, through the media - do you honestly believe that the tents and what everyone says and the ideas and opinions will be recorded, because there will be cameras - as you mentioned in your speech here, in your report - that these actions will be recorded? It's not happening anywhere. There is no reason for this to happen in Greece. We don't understand, are you afraid?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u151	Then why are there cameras in the amphitheaters? What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u152	That is why I am telling you, you are afraid of something that does not exist for that reason, and I think that we are leading to a dead end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u153	The law says that, I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u154	So here we are, everything is controlled, and thank God the debate is open. It cannot be discussed more openly. As to the argument used by the "democrat, species and deportees" Chief of Police Vice-Population - he did not have the courtesy to hear the Minister's answer to the bill - I think he is making a big mistake. The mistake lies in calling for the House to stop working in order for the manifestation of discomfort and reaction and different viewpoints to function. You will allow me to tell you that this would be the greatest sin that this House could ever have committed and, of course, democracy. Free expression is not prevented. And to our fellow citizens who want somehow, in this way, to no one else, even though they have all the means to do so at the moment, I think that this is only linked to one fact. How small the reaction is, regardless of what the polls find, which find what is in public opinion, what I have said to you, what we are all saying among ourselves, what you are saying and you are still in private. So, in this respect, I think it is over. The whole question is what they are saying, what Angel Syrigos has shown us, to say that they want to do so, but that they cannot raise their hands and exercise violence and implement them. A word about the introduction: It is clear that the move that took place just before the Tsipras - Kammenos government fell at that time was simply done so that you can now claim that some students will not find room to enter and become students. A simple arithmetic shows that the strengthening of university departments will now be far greater than that of a previous Minister of Education, when he moved everything and put it under arrest. Now just because they'll know the kids that they'll fill in and ask to go somewhere they want to go and not somewhere they'll go to get postponing the army, or to satisfy their family that they're students, or just to get the pass, or to wait. Now, training will be strengthened. The House is a living body. If something doesn't go ahead, we're here to change it. But once, take your responsibilities! We get them, and I personally think Mrs. Keramea is doing very well. But it has not been done - it will be done - but at least that has to be done. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Varoufakis has the floor. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you take us back to August 7, 2019, when you chose - to mark things that were important to you, from the first things you did after the July 2019 elections - the abolition of asylum. Here in this Chamber, when I was still hoping you would be interested - at least not to fail - I had asked some basic questions about what you would achieve with the abolition of asylum. I remember telling you a story that everyone knows, those who have served in universities. In the law school building, the current Sina Street Theoreos, we all knew, those who taught there years, all students, we saw people in a very bad state running drugs and making use of just outside Marseille's entrance to the park. At some point, they stole the busts of Kazantzakis and Greco and spilled them. There was no asylum there, the police had never done anything about it. Never! And I asked you: To abolish the asylum to what would it help? Nothing at all. Verbatim, I said to you: 'How will the abolition of asylum help when and where there is no asylum is not an attempt?' And you were looking at me in the sparkling gaze of busts. What could you say? It was ideologically your decision to abolish asylum. I told you even - and I read from the Minutes of 7 August 2019: ‘Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that by abolishing asylum with one move you will cut off the Gordian bond of lawlessness and intercourse at universities? You are mistaken!’. And I explained to you the reasons why the abolition of asylum would achieve exactly a big hole in the water, which a eight-year-old child can understand. I have even shared some other stories from my long university service from foreign universities. I remembered in front of you then, on 7 August, a case where I was in my office in Cambridge and at some point - I was working late at night - I heard some noises and I felt a disturbance, an insecurity that no university student should ever feel - either a teacher or a student. This is where we fully agree. If at that time my only choice was to call '100', I wouldn't. It's a nuclear weapon to call "100", when you hear a noise in the building. What I did is I called the University Guard Service, who had an office in college underneath. People came, saw what happened, if anything happened. They would decide - they were trained to do this - whether they should call the police or not. What did we propose as Mera25 from the first moment? University asylum care service. That's what we proposed. You were deaf. And I told you at the time that you would either create such a university asylum service, safeguard the dignity of the university, the property of the university, the safety of people - whether they are auxiliary staff or they are teachers - or you will do such a thing, you will create, give the funding to the universities so that they can create such a professional protection service for the university community and the protection of academic asylum, or you will bring police officers to the schools. There's no third solution. You then, Mr Chrysochide, said that the police had no place in the universities. That's right! So you either do nothing or create the university service I told you about. So, what are you doing today, a year and a half later? You bring us the police at the universities, that is exactly what you said you wouldn't do. At least admit the failure of the abolition of asylum! Admit that what we told you on August 7th from this Step was right! Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a question of democracy, because you know, at least our ancient ancestors thought that escalation was perhaps more important than the vote. To hear an opinion and be judged, to reject it, because it is not right, because it is a proposal that does not help, of course, that is the process of democracy. But distorting opinions, not being heard, and not even rejected, is not right. The proposal we made to you was specific to the protection of the university, the asylum service. You didn't answer that. The other day I remembered another sample of the dictatorship with a parliamentary mantle imposed by you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, along with your media pals of propaganda and miscarriage. It was when a few days ago of serious journalist and sympathizer asked me: "Mr. Varoufakis, you have taught so many universities abroad. In none of this is done in Greece, which is "swallow dogs". Why are you in favour of "sucking dogs"? Look, when we get to the point of making specific proposals, which are consistent with what is happening in Oxford, Cambridge, Exeter, the University of Bonn, you ignore us and the media have not even been informed of our proposals. You have not answered our proposals if they are correct, wrong or indifferent and the means are distorting our positions. It's like there's no Parliament. What are we doing in here? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what is the reason why we should put forward proposals when neither you respond to our proposals nor even to the media of mass expropriation and propaganda - why is this their job - these proposals are not heard? This veil of silence is covering government immunity, which leads to the sequence of failures, whether it is the vaccination scandal, whether it is the mismanagement of the pandemic, or what is being done at universities today. You have therefore solved, Mr Chrysochoidis, Mrs Kerameos, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, with the asylum. You abolished it. It's hole in the water. Asylum was never the thing. The question is dominance at the university. Who dominates the university? Is the state and the police state dominated or is there any self-government of the university with the dominance of being in the hands of the university authorities? That's the question. Is there a university welfare service or state within the university? That's the question. There's no economic question, 'cause you're going to be costing the bollocks to set up police stations inside the university. It can cost you, I'm sure, more than if you took out a linen, Mrs. Keramos, and you'd give it to the universities just to create a service to protect academic freedom. The question is this: State or self-government university? That's the question. Otherwise Immunities only have immunity. Since the Middle Ages, that is, since the early Western universities have emerged through monasteries, which had taken some degrees of freedom from Rome to be self-government and have the right to read things that were forbidden to everyone else - so the universities in the West, in Central Europe - until now, in all the European universities, in all the serious universities in the world dominance is in the university community, until Mitsotakis, Chrysochoidis and Kerameos came to the dreadful idea that dominance must return to the pope of the police state. And the worst part is you're lying. Through your various channels, through your trolls, through your social networks, you lie. You ask questions to us in Anti-Population, that we want to send our children or ourselves to teach Cambridge and Oxford with police, but we don't want our own universities to have. What college does Cambridge and Oxford have police in there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u157	In this. Police in Oxford.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u158	There's no police. Mrs. Kerame, you're being exposed, lie unreservedly and consistently. Please. You guys haven't even been outside Oxford. I've taught Cambridge, I've taken lessons in Oxford, and I assure you there's a university service, they've hired it by the university authorities, and they're accountable to the university authorities. I told you before, but you're not listening. Either you don't understand or you don't listen. Decide. Are you deaf or are you not diligent enough here in Parliament's Chamber? I told you when I was at the University at Trinity College, I called the university service, which had the discretion to call the police when they considered it necessary to intervene with the police. You showed me a picture of three, five cops. They may have gone, but at the invitation of the university service, which is under the supervision, control and recruitment of the university authorities. Lie. It's a disgrace to you, Mrs. Kerameau. We know that you do not deserve to be a Minister of Education, but you do not need to repeat this to us systematically, especially in the plenary session of this House. You dare present yourself with the beatings and the teachers as weak human beings. After it proved to be a great deal right to say that the abolition of asylum will not do anything to secure the universities, you say that now these weak people must be strengthened by police stations within schools and with cameras. Ladies and gentlemen, it's simple. It's a matter of sovereignty. Who dominates the university? You, Mr. Chrysochoid, the state or the university community? That's the question. And you answer "the state", because you are deep prisoners, who are supposed to be neoliberal. You're not even neoliberal. From the N.E.L.D., your wrist keeps from the N.D.O.D., from the parastate of the right-wing, that's clear. No serious liberal right-wing conservative, who respects the university's self-government, would ever think of asking for police at universities and screaming photographs, as Mrs Keramos has just done by lying about what is happening in Oxford. They wouldn't dare do that, they'd be ashamed, they'd feel the shame that you don't have, Mrs. Kerameau. Of course, all of these are presented in the wrapping of academic freedom. There has been no dictator in the history of humanity, not invoking freedom, while walking away. So you, too, are publicly cut off for academic freedom, while you are acting as its convinced enemies, not only as an idea but also on the practicer. If you were interested in the self-employed of the university, academic freedom, you would not present universities as weak human beings who need Mr Chrysochide's police officers to strengthen their souls. You wouldn't borrow from Thomas Hobbs the ratio of a war against everyone in the university, saying that the only way to stop this war is to have the damocles broken over the head of teachers and students. You would not baptize as a strengthening of total weakening, humiliation, perfect humiliation of rebukes and university authorities. You say you're interested in students who want to know. You say that you are striving to protect them from lawlessness, violence, and arbitraryness that live daily in schools, at the mercy of party parties. If you were really interested in lawlessness and complexity, I've told you before, I'll tell you the third time, you'll abolish the excellence of party climbing, you would abolish the undeclared undeclared undeclared undeclared at our schools every day, and you will have to deal with jury professors, with whom they even create circuits to break up European programs from which they reward your party army. They set tables outside our halloween, with ghetto-blasters whose sound is getting worse. When he dares to do a lesson in the next hall, a professor who doesn't do his favors, does not pass theirs, then the intensity is in the interspace. The replicates offer services to students. That's lawlessness. Remove them if you want to convince us that you are interested in lawlessness at university. You're gonna tell me: is SGU only doing this? Yes, mostly, yes. I have a problem with the other groups, and I think it is a great honour that, when I came to Greece, at the University of Athens, the PSPs put them first with me. I was hated for the PASP, why did they consider me theirs and come and tell me "the DAPITES go by the right professor, won't you pass us?" And I told them "if you are left-wing students, you should demand that I not cross you because I am yours, if I am yours". And since then, war has started from the PSP. Then I had a war with the SGC, and then I had a war with other factions. But I address you today, you are the government, it is not the JRC government. You're the government. You, your party, your government and the public system feed every day, through the party that is the backbone of the university para-states, the IAS. You, Mrs. Keramos, choose instead of abolishing the university paradigm of the SAD to add to that police state of Mr. Chrysochoidis. We know where this is going to end by putting the police inside the schools. Either the university police will do the wrong thing to your DAPHP, or - most likely - as in St. Panteleimon's Square, where police officers and chrysayers were trying together, so university police and DAP will clear the schools from those who resist the existing university parastate. Do you really want to strengthen the university community? You don't want it, but even for ten seconds, we assume you want it. The basic thing to be understood by all politicians is this. Colleagues, educational reform against teachers is not possible. The Minister cannot, whoever it is, and divinely framed to be the Minister, be an educational reform. Teachers are doing the educational reform. You're the ones who turn against them. You present them as weak people who need Mr Chrysochoid's officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u159	But Mrs. Keramea is divinely blinded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Admiral, we'll talk about other things between us. I do not want to disappoint you by saying what you have just said. When I watch the revansism you face with the public university, you remind me of the American general who tried to explain why an entire village was destroyed by napalm saying he had to save it from communism. You do the same, you destroy academic freedom, you drown the public university to save it, to save academic freedom. You're a throat. You're nothing more than that. You have nothing to offer. You've proved it a year and a half now. But you will allow me to say two words to SYRIZA's friends, colleagues. You've been four years government. I heard Mr. Tsipra talking before. If I didn't know he was a prime minister once, I couldn't understand. He spoke as head of a opposition party who had never been through Maximos. You're not unresponsible. On the one hand, with Mr Gavroglou, my dear friend and colleague, you have continued educational populism. It is not possible for you to do what you do, remove TEIs, get sections, add them to universities that didn't want them, put them in various cities from here and there, do not have any organic consistency between them. You have built a new class of professors "ESPAGIs", paid by the NSRF, if possible. You went teachers from secondary education supposedly to serve the new university departments of the TEI. This is educational populism. At the same time, you did nothing to protect asylum. You left it like this. What's the result? They come in and they say they're gonna put the police in. When we once, even when Mera25 existed as Diem, we told you: "Create the Asylum Protection Service", what exists in Cambridge and Oxford, Mrs.Keramea, you did not. And now you give them the alibi to say there's a huge gap and we'll fill it with cops. But here we come to the philosophical difference between Mera25 and all of you. We don't think the Ministry can make a difference. The only thing that the state, the state, the Ministry - and this is a more general observation for all ministries - is to create the framework for university support. However, every time you become Ministers of Education you also want to take up an educational reform that will bear your name. Arseni bill, Diamantopoulou bill, now you want the Kerameo bill. You all want a bill, a reform with your name. That's not how it works. Educational reform cannot be upheld by the ministers. You're too many ordering stars. Today you are, tomorrow you're not. Here comes your next Minister or the next Minister, and he's tearing your reform. The public university doesn't make progress this way. What do we say? We are talking about the consultative board of permanent educational reform. Now, if we appoint the parties, depending on our parliamentary power, the members of this council will do nothing. The same sick regime will be reproducing. That is why we propose that this consultative board on the permanent reform of education, and not just of the tertiary, be composed of 1/3 of full-time teachers, 1/3 of contributors citizens and 1/3 of experts appointed by the parties, depending on their parliamentary power, but only of 1/3. We are talking about such a body that is in constant development, that is to say, that the contributors are being drawn up again and again every eight, ten or twelve months, so that there is no squash and this Council is listening to the Minister's proposals, the opposition's proposals, the teachers' proposals, all the proposals, and that it can be decided over time through this model of consultation and participatory democracy. That is our view and there is a great difference here. Can I tell you differently, Mrs. Kerameau? I think I have done too many years in university headquarters on three continents. If you're putting me in the educational ministry right now, I don't know what to do to solve the problem of universities, and I'm telling you honestly. I know what we should not do - what you do - but I am sure I am not about what needs to be done, because there are so deep problems and such a conflict within the university and at the same time so great values within the university that should not be lost, which anything that comes from the Ministry is not going to solve the problem. He needs a change of attitude. It is necessary to consult contributors and to strengthen the university community. There can be no Minister - I repeat, and I hope I do not bore you, but it is important - to reform the universities, to take out the abuses that exist and are circulated and reproduced and to save these values. Every time you try to do such things, you destroy values without harming evildoing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, may I ask you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I will not be shortened. I'll finish when I have to finish. Please don't interrupt me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u163	I am very sorry, but the Rules of Procedure apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u164	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u165	As you can see, from 15 minutes you've been talking twenty-four. You will not tell me whether I will interrupt you in order to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u166	I'm not gonna stop, and I won't be shortened. These are very important issues, and I think my location is just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u167	Slow down. That's what I asked you to do. I didn't ask you to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u168	I will be brief when I judge it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u169	Not when the Rules of Procedure say so and respectfully to your colleagues who have been waiting since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u170	Respect? You dare to interrupt me when you would not interrupt any other political leader in twenty-three minutes, you do not respect Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u171	You're making a big mistake, at least as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I forgive you, but I am not going to listen to you. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u173	Good, too, when the time comes, I know what I have to do under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u174	You're gonna do what you're judging you're gonna have to do. So far you have been systematically exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u175	Not what I judge, what the Rules say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u176	Only selectively with me? Bravo! Congratulations! You just showed up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u177	The Greek people have known about it for thirty years. I wasn't expecting your judgment!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today's students, the children who are now in schools, are children who have grown up in the midst of debt, memoranda, poverty, insecurity. They are studying in well-financed higher education institutions with many empty organic positions in an education without resources where the previous government has created new pathogens - I said this before - and now you are teaching them a lesson of individual responsibility. I want to talk about 'eternal students', about 'n + 2'. I have to tell you that when I came to the university in Greece it really made me very bad the fact that there wasn't a series, that the students didn't know they'd go in four to five years. That's where we don't disagree. But what do we offer to these students in relation to what the other universities I worked for to those students who ended in their time? We have groups of students beyond the limits of social exclusion. What about them, ladies and gentlemen? What about the kids who don't come to give lessons because they don't have the money to buy the CBEL ticket? Do you know these kids? Do you know they exist or ignore their existence? What about students working 12 hours a day - 'black', not even declared - and struggling to teach a lesson from here, a lesson from there? And in some departments is 70% of students, they're not on the sidelines. What is the real benefit of erasing them? Do you know that some of the best students who have been through my hands from the Kapodistrian University of Athens were "eternal students", who for years didn't come and suddenly something happened in their lives, did some of them, others earn some money, others split up and returned to the cobbleds and were diamonds, were the best students we had? Think about that, too. And think about the most basic thing: currently putting the 'cutter', the 'n+2', which you present as panacea, all you do is know what it is? You force the good teachers, you put them in a very hard, difficult position, you have to spend a child, because it depends on them, if they don't pass it, it will be cut off, it will go away, it will be erased and it may be working at night. You put the good teachers before such an inhumane dilemma. And you know what they'll do? They'll get through them. Is this how the university will be upgraded? And you do something even worse. The "n+2" will give unacceptable power to prosperous professors who will use it to blackmail students. And you know exactly what I mean by it. You want to talk about other solutions? Here we are, we have the experience. I would not object to a restriction on what lessons you give. It is unacceptable that what is done in my section so far that a student can attend a fourth-year course in Micro-economics, or the third, but has not passed the first year. Make courses, say that to give these lessons you must have completed this course. I agree with that. I suggested it, but it wasn't because of student resignations. There are many solutions, but you are not interested in solutions, the demonstration of authoritarianism is of interest to you. And I now come to the import base. I want to make a little observation. You know, about half of those who come to our universities don't come on the basis of introduction, they come by transfer. What are you going to do about it? Will you strengthen regional universities? Will you support students who go to regional universities instead of telling them the easy solution: 'We will be relocating you to Athens or Thessaloniki'? Are you thinking through a video conference now that there's no need to be translated? You have to tell us about that. I'm telling you in a lot of sections up to half the students don't get in the import grade, they're renamed. I'm on my way to the point. Look. What is global practice? Whether you're talking about GC, whether you're talking about IB, or HIC, SAT in the countries that you also recognise as countries that have achieved a certain level of university education, which we're perhaps jealous of, there are two things going on. First, the base shall be moved and moved according to the distribution of grades. Why? Because some years the issues are harder, so the base automatically falls. It is fair when it is more difficult to go through with "8", while when it is easier to pass with "10". So one is this, the moving base, a basic principle. The second common basic principle is this. And here we can talk about it, maybe there's a bridge of communication here, and I really agree that the white glue can't be the passport for a school. There must be some very little knowledge to succeed in getting into college. I agree. But let us see what these are and how it is diagnosed that this minimum has been achieved and then we see what the basis is. This is a conversation that I would be very interested in doing, but not with you. We do not trust you that you are really interested, Mrs. Kerameos, because when you come to the middle of the night and you equate our university degrees with the private attendance, you have immediately lost any credibility you have in this conversation. Do you want to be credible and have this conversation? All right, I'm making you a suggestion. I will accept the basis you put, '10', but you too will pass a law that says that any student does not guarantee this basis in the Greeks will not even be registered in private colleges. Because if you don't do that, it's very simple, you're raising the import base in public to send customers to your buddies, private collegeers. This will be the way to discuss it, until you pass this law and for private colleges, we will denounce you. Ladies and gentlemen, a reminder with the tolerance of the President. On August 7th, I told you something else about university asylum. I told you that I know private colleges, private universities are your target. No one disputes that Harvard is an excellent university, but Harvard in Greece - verbatim I say this - no private one will make. Harvard is only made in the United States by Robber Barons. Even the Greek oligars in Harvard will be getting donations. Here the only thing that burns you with private universities is the recognition of the degrees of existing colleges, the same colleges that take our own children - I mean, not as students - with very good studies go to the various colleges with doctors from America, Greece, etc., children who have reason to be in Greece, who want to be with their parents in their homeland and make them teach twenty-five or thirty-hours a week. Do you know what that means? I told you on August 7th. It means the end of their academic career. They're burning these kids. Anyone who teaches twenty and thirty hours a week will never write an article of what will ensure a university career. Asylum and academic freedom, Mrs.Kerameos, requires the protection of universities both from violence, police, ballots, but also from the tolerance of universities, whether they are in private colleges where they have to burn their minds without doing any research work or they are in universities. You say and say again, you of the government, that in the midst of a pandemic, you abolished redundancies by introducing the principle of job suspension. You did well. Who can lie to you about this? However, with regard to legislative work on things that are sensitive, such as education, you are not inhibiting the legislative process. You come and legislate the worst with closed universities at the time you send the same MATs you put to the schools to subjugate today, at the moment we're talking, the young people and the young people who are protesting about your bill. It's democracy, exorbitance with parliamentary cloak. I would like to close, Mr President, in a few words, on this point. Lockdown! Think about it: In the middle of the lockdown you impose lockdown and in the middle of the lockdown in the lockdown you legislate about education and put the police in the universities. That's a challenge. Can't you understand? You understand that, but you want this challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing is not your inability, which we have seen with the unprecedented vaccination centres, with the massive tests that have not been carried out. They also had a legitimate interest in the benefit of the Clinics, as your law has - we said about the basis before and for others - in favour of the Collegelors. The worst is that your failures, brought by this combination of privatization, the interests of your luben oligarchy and inability, these failures do not make you say an apology, feel a little bad. No, they're pulling out a far-right sadism. Your far-right DNA comes out, you fail, you express your sadism, you feel better, you express sadism even more with even more failed policies, and that becomes a vicious cycle of acceleration. Proceed, walking against history on the road drawn by ERA and EKOF, the hipidism and the paradox of the right. We at Mera25 are here to serve the idea of a sovereign public university, whose academic community is strengthened to safeguard academic freedom, property, dignity, physical integrity of participants in the academic process and a permanent educational reform that is not carried out by the Minister, the Minister or the State. That's our difference. You all want the university to be bound either by the oligarchy or by the party. We say all dominance is at the self-governing university, which the state supports without substituting. That is what the youth who grew up in the debt-purpose of your own remembrance policies need. That is what the country needs, and in the end, we need our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u180	Madam Minister, I had already announced Mr Chryssohoid. Please, we must all respect the MPs. You'll talk at 16:00. Your time will be proportionate. It will not be what the Rules of Procedure say, because we cannot make exceptions only to the Left. But now I have announced Mr Chrysochoid. Let him speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a few words about Mr. Varoufakis. The only right thing I heard from the head of Mera25 is Cambridge with an accent. The only right thing I heard, really. The rest is uncertainties, in a sense, but without any arguments, such as that of the LPD and the police, they will attack the universities. I admire him for standing up so much teratology. But let's go to the bill. Mr President, I would like to begin with an incident that Mr Varoufakis has also given me the opportunity to remember. About a year ago some of them from the Law of Athens called "100", in the center of the Direct Action, asking for help on a very serious incident. When the patrol car arrived, immediately called from the center, people attacked the police officers in the patrol car, and were in danger of losing lives. The perpetrators are indicted today. This is an indicative fact of many others who have been in our universities for years. From a miracle, in fact, no human life has been lost. Also, Mr Varoufakis, I cannot comment on anything more. You said about the means of extinction, in which you have been present for many years every morning, an analyst of the memorials, lying and cultivating hallucinations in millions of Greeks. And when you came, fortunately, you could not complete your plans to destroy Greece. And we are not at risk of you destroying Greece today, because they are now part of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, decades ago we have seen an incomprehensible situation that has recently evolved into our university institutions. A relationship of indivisibility has been established in despotic, small, violent minorities of the vast majority of the university community. There is now a regime of freedom, where minorities dominate, because they do not hesitate to violate legitimacy, blackmail the governors and rape the rule of law. The image of the dean of ASAP was an unbearable epitome, the last critical drop to say "there". A few months earlier, the Polytechnic dean, like we said the other day, saved the worst. The 'no more', 'no more', 'do something', sounded loud and clear, mainly as a demand for society. We can no longer continue to make the wrong eyes in every Burantoni and to be indignant for three, four days. We must have the courage to resolve this issue, because our democratic conscience, our social sensitivity and our political mission are not tolerated: our democratic conscience, because these images, ladies and gentlemen, are a nail in the eyes of the rule of law. Social sensitivity, because the public university is the refuge of the less powerful and needs to operate in conditions of security, peace, freedom and democracy. The political mission, because education is a very rare development resource, and this situation puts a brake on the country's potential and chances of winning from the technological explosion that has already begun. Our answer is the plan you have in your hands. We are responsible and democratically changing what needs to be done, because this is how it is to be done and it is finally going to be done. It is a great responsibility of the state if it lets the country troubles in the 1980s that other countries have solved for decades. It is euphemism of institutions, where these happen, to talk about free movement of ideas when the bullies regulate traffic. Indeed, what politician - I say, for example, Mr Tsipras - could without notice, without accompanying, without care to go to ASEAN, Metsovio, Painter and who dared to invite them to his lesson, that is to say, to make a speech in a university space and a discussion without the presence of the police, without prejudice to the presence of the police, without damage, without consequences? Talk to the painter about the social consequences of the fourth industrial revolution or to the AAOE about artificial intelligence is being done in the presence of everyone? What right therefore violates the presence of the police when the right to free expression and meditation is systematically violated? Free-speakers, school gestapo are not the patrolling policemen, but they are the bullies who are tolerated by others, others are afraid and afraid! I stress that it has been cleared up by all the sides of the House that the presence of the police is not an ideological option, but it is only discussed as the necessary and transitional measure to tackle the current situation. To make it understandable, in order to stop the misfortune crises and inappropriate comparisons with the rest of the world, that here we have a constant downturn crisis, which cannot continue, a crisis that has been exacerbated and which at last wants a plan for a solution. The first step in this plan is to clarify the situation. In this context and with these assumptions we are discussing. In this context, the alternatives to implementing the plan result from the answers to two questions: first, whether the police are present or not? And, secondly, subject these forces to the police or the rector authorities? First question. Is the police's presence necessary or, vice versa, can private security staff take care of it? I will quote the statement in June 2017 of the then Dean of Aristotle Mr. Mitka. "The university community cannot safeguard spaces from traffickers and other such data. He can't deal with criminal law crimes and he can't arrest anyone. Our guardians are porters and superintendents of buildings. No operational capacity and no legal authority to pursue criminals’. Clearly, concisely, the dean raises the question of the legal authority and the operational capacity of staff, security companies, private custody. They don't have one or the other, because the Greek left-wing state did not want to give the private companies such powers. Is there anyone here, ladies and gentlemen, who asks to change this regime? The government doesn't. He doesn't want to give these companies such powers. It's not our intention, it's not our choice. Without operational capacity, without legal authorisation, it is impossible for companies to deal with the problem of the preservation and safety of public institutions. Therefore, the question of whether the police are necessary is only a single answer. Only the police today! Conversely, if we do not want to find a solution, if we want another hole in the water and the continuity of the unleashing of the trumpets, we can spend the money of the Greek people, hire more chechiars and make a hole in the water. Having clarified the necessity, therefore, of the police presence, the second question arises is the subordination of forces. Will they be subject to the dean or to the police? Where will they get orders from? We would all prefer, in theory, that they take orders from the dean, from the senate, from the dean authorities. We would all like to see this, even if there are certain legal issues. But in the end, do the dean authorities want to? Can the dean authorities? I claim and I will try to prove that even if they want to, they can't, at least today. I wish they could be in the future. I want to make something clear from the start. Political criticism is not for those who are fighting, but above all for those who have ruled, and above all for the government of SYRIZA, who for four and a half years has left and abused lawlessness, criminality has been thrown into the foundations. Honestly, make a revert to the past and see the answers of the ministers who were at that time given to these specific issues. The Ministers' replies were either cover or indifference and, of course, that dreadful and indifferent: 'The situation will solve the Roman student movement'. Until this movement came, in the universities the fear became status, the fatalism became established, it became tolerated, and it was almost normal to insecurity. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] You are now coming and ask the leaders to resolve the matter that is now beyond them, both operationally and politically. You are loading the state's responsibilities on the shoulders of universities. What you're doing is totally proportionate, just as irresponsible, with the solution of entrusting university security to the Role of the student movement. This is a clear avoidance of a solution, a clear reference to the bells. It is a simple question: why are those who are before us, ladies and gentlemen, going to succeed today where they have failed for so many years? I mean, the Republican authorities, the congresses, the administrations of the universities. That is the main reason why the placing of police forces in the dean today is not, unfortunately, realistic. Let's say it anyway. The long-standing practice of the Republican authorities in directing the institutions who are tolerated and coexistent with extreme violent minorities leaves no room for them to be entrusted with the solution of the problem. It would be unfair and, of course, unfair. Besides, universities, academics, masters, they're scientists. Their job is not to deal with serious infraction and violence. As a conclusion, therefore, I think it is very clear that this is where we have reached our security and the security of the institutions is a work of the police, in the sense that I described earlier. That is, ultimately, the last resort to solve the problem. We want, over time, to go to normality, that is to say at some point, once the normality of universities has been restored, then we should also look at the next step. That's the normality we're all looking for. The sooner, the better, the better, the better the education is left behind. When the police disappear, take out criminal groups from the universities, only then the rector authorities will be able to deal with protection and security issues and be able to manage them. In conclusion, I would like to answer a reasonable third question which has been raised. Perhaps it is a pretext for the police to enter universities, since for crimes the police may now enter, as they have heard, with the dean's permission. Why isn't it combined with non-military personnel inside the institution, which will be subject to the dean? I have an answer and two comments. The answer is that this is a recast in more words of the view of placing the dean with a private company. This position has been answered. I repeat that this could be our ultimate goal. And since the question arises from the Major Opposition to say that I am glad that even twenty months later you recognize the unfoundedness of the fears expressed very hard when the abolition of the impunity was legislated at universities, the unjustly called asylum, with an article and a few words. I am pleased that something has been heard by Mr Varoufakis, too, and I am pleased that the legitimate work of the police has helped to make it universally acceptable that not only the violations but also the purely criminal behaviours of ASEAN and Metsovio and the students' homes of the Painter have been significantly reduced recently with the quantities of drugs in Thessaloniki. You should make a visit to the universities and the ASEE to see how all these ruthless things have left with the paramilitary trade and, of course, the terrible drug trade, where just about hundreds of pounds of pounds of pounds of drugs have been found in warehouses. Yaffes, drugs, traffickers, mortars of all kinds were abolished. These have been abolished. The asylum of criminals has been abolished. The ideas have not been blocked, as some have claimed. Drug dealers and sportsmen disappeared to burn every weekend buses and policemen. The second comment, and I am ending it, is about what we are discussing. What law was there before the abolition of the impunity? There was agreement, the approval of the dean, as you remember, who hesitated and rarely gave it. Not because he didn't want it, but why he couldn't take it. And therefore, drugs, bulbs, jaws and liberties had to be tolerated. So we have ridden the beatings and rector authorities of this atrocity. You too, with the same irresponsible obsession today, completely irresponsible, are once again asking for the problem to be recharged to the dean, to ask him for his assent before the gestapiers humiliate him again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u183	Can I have the floor for a minute, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u184	Yes, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u185	Mr Chrysochoidis, first of all, as far as my presence in the media is concerned, as I called it, you said that I was going out on the channels at the time and lying about the memorandum, the one you signed without having read it. I hope that since then you have read it and read the comments about it. Because what I was saying - and you can go back to those emissions videos - were two things: Firstly, that the first memorandum you signed without reading was given to us in order to repay the Franco-German banks, not to save Greece. And secondly, that it would not come out and it would also need a second credit card, and then thirdly, we would go to the century by 2060. That wasn't the lies. That was the truth. Maybe you didn't like them then, just like you don't like what I'm saying now. As to the bill now. Mr. Chrysochoid, you shouldn't be here today. It's a law on education. The Citizen's Minister shouldn't have had a say about that. You'll say what you say. The question is why we have a government that puts the Minister of Police - essentially - to do what you have just done. You did it in a very worldly way and modestly. You've actually said that the dean authorities are useless. The Republican authorities may not be responsible for keeping these sites. In other words, given that all over the world, the dean authorities have the responsibility for guarding, while you say, 'our wings are useless, they cannot, alone as the chief of police, as the super-government of the police' - that is what you said - demonstrates your privatization. That's why you keep talking about private security. In Cambridge they don't have private security. They serve at the university which answers the rectoral authorities and the student club. Many times, indeed, he also hires students through the procedures of student clubs and rectoral authorities. You think that Greek universities can't do that. You didn't exonerate the swabs of weight. You have freed them from academic freedom and the universities. That's why you find us in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u187	I will never get into the essence of my arguments again. I invite you to take your MPs, your executives and take a walk around ASE, Metsovio Polytechnics, go to Exarchia, go to the EKP, go to the painter's last, on the campus, and see, indeed, that all these infrastructures university, academics now take a picture of university and educational institutions. Do it, please, because there's a chance you can change your mind. I would like to say one more thing to you because you said about the extinction means at the beginning of your position, which was then the step to spread, to disperse false, serious lies, to the detriment of the Greek people, to the detriment of our country and you almost destroyed it as the Minister of Finance at the time. So I want to tell you that a nightmare has passed and no matter how much you're trying to remind us, it's past - forgotten about us. I'm leaving you to the dizzy of your searches, Mr. Varoufakis! Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u189	Madam President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, you have the floor and we shall end with this answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Chrysochoid, your views are well known. As far as the spaces around the university are concerned, the Exarcheia and so on, if you think that you are doing too well, well, but those could do without abolishing the asylum and without putting police officers into the universities. The question is - I repeat - a question of sovereignty. Are you going to dominate the university's security services or the prerogatives? That's the state matter. Is that right? At least we have to define what our disagreement is. We say it must be the self-government university. Let me tell you one more thing, because you said again that I was lying, when even Mr Papadimitriou, yours now, he says what I was saying at the time. You are not a baby - nourishment of the New Democracy, because when I went out and said what I said at the time to the Unt1 and elsewhere, I remember that I came home after such a presence at the ERT and a Mr Antonis Samaras called me to tell me that he has never been so moved by listening to what I was saying. You are not a birth - a nourishment of the New Democracy, because then the New Democracy, before the second memorandum, was in agreement with us. Find them between you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, please, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u193	Minister, I will not give you the floor. You'll allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u194	For a second, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u195	Minister, please, you are not going to have a conversation with each other now. He answered...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u196	Madam President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u197	Minister, I run the debate. Please can't take the floor. You answered, Mr Varoufakis answered and the debate is over. We are moving on to the next Member of Parliament who is Mr. Kritonas Arsenis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u198	The government has the last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u199	Please, Minister! Please! We will not have a debate between the two in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u200	Madam President, please give me the floor very much. The government has the last word and you have to give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u201	I gave it to you earlier and you normally answered Mr Varoufakis. Minister, I know how to run the seat. Please! Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have the rare fact that Mr Chrysochide is with us before leaving the Chamber again, I would like to ask him a simple question. Yesterday five walkers of the Society of Walkers for Health from Volos were arrested in Makrinitsa as they walked distances and imposed a fine of seven and a half thousand euros in total. Because Mr Amyras, in reply to a relevant timely question, said that the Prime Minister is being investigated for his negligence, that is, violation of the legislation on motorised sport within protected areas and oaks, I would like to ask what the result of this investigation is so many months later. You will not answer - I know - because it is not about freedom of speech, not about democracy or about the institutions. But please do not invoke them, do not alter their content by using hypocriticals. Madam Secretary-General - the Minister is missing, I address the other colleagues and the citizens who are listening to us -... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yes, there are both Undersecretaries sitting in the Members' seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u203	Mr Colleague, continue your speech and please do not discuss it with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u204	I have one question and I address it to the citizens. I have a daughter of four and a half years, which from tomorrow again and for an undetermined period of time will not be with her classmates. I have a two-year-old son who has had no right to see other children for too long. It is a generation of young children in which we deprive ourselves of the necessary socialisation, which is vitally necessary. My question is: Why? The Minister would tell us that it really is a pity, but what to do, we have a pandemic. Are these lockdowns inevitably on which you've led us? What are the criteria on which you made the decision on this lockdown - bamboo, the lockdown in the lockdown? It's that we're on the verge of saturation of intensive care units. In other countries there are other criteria. France did not have to take any further measures, in practice, against the new wave. In us, who are so underfunded for health, the problem is, yes, recruitment and intensive care units. The fact that you are not recruiting and insisting on this means that patients stay without having hospital treatment in hospitals without being served for their basic needs more than once a day. We have complaints that people are thirsty and hungry. And it's not the problem with workers reaching their limits by subscribing. The problem is why you're getting there, what it's because they get there. That's because you don't hire, because you don't do new MITs. Let's go to the bill. The county self-inhabitant police - only recruitment - cost 20,000,000. Twenty million for closed universities! With 8,000,000, the House built fifty units of intensive care. With these 20,000,000 you could have done a hundred and twenty - five intensive care units. If you did intensive treatment units, this does not only show a ready-to-war health system against the coronary, which means less and milder waves, with a less duration of lockdown and less, but you would also have a decent public health system forever. But this would displease you very much, because then how would you convince public opinion of the value and importance of privatising the public health system and how would you privatise public universities without repression and control? Without predictability, the individual will not eventually enter public universities. This is about the bill we are debating at the moment, the privatisation of education and health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The police will pay her and the universities themselves. And you know where? From the research fund. You are cutting funding for research, that is, the most basic criterion for classifying our universities worldwide. This is exactly what you claim, that you want to upgrade their global ranking. You are, however, cutting off the research on which the global classification depends. But you also change the wholehearted four months before they are held. Shock and awe! But that's not the worst. Those kids you've been looking hard at, to exclude them from the public university, have already been excluded from public education for a year from the public school. In West Athens telephony is done with closed screens because the network can't stand. It's a peculiar interactive Linguaphone that's done. No relationship to education. It's a lost generation the one you create. And you're giving her the charismatic blow. You do not only push to private colleges for those who fail with your new standards of excellence, you exclude them from tertiary education. People's poverty no longer allows people to pay for private education and university. You are proving Mr. Mitsotakis' vision that in the areas like Peristeri and West Athens they can only live plumbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u205	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Madam President. Just two phrases. But since you have brought the class dissolution of labour, environmental and democratic laws, since you cause as much as anyone else of the social classes, you wonder why the world reacts and goes on the road through a coronary. Why do you legislate all this in the middle of a coronary? Police at the closed universities. Why does this legislation need now? The bankruptcy of companies that are bankrupt by themselves, why are you speeding it up with your laws? In the 'Natura' areas, when we will pay fines in a short time, as the European Commission has announced, precisely for their unregulated location in the NATURA regions. We invite you, when you do all this, not to invoke the environment, democracy and freedom of speech because they lose their meaning in your mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u207	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we keep time for tolerance at all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u209	Why, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u210	I ask you for the floor for a minute, so that I can inform the House of what is happening outside the House. I was an eyewitness of an incident, which I think concerns us all. I want to know about the unnecessarily violence that took place in front of me ten minutes ago. Do I have the time? I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u211	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u212	I'll speak with names, so we can be clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no sympathy, no intention of creating a sense of anxiety, a sense of tragic or something. I can only inform you that ten minutes ago I left our Parliament, as I was informed by Mr Paleologist, who is a professor at the School of Journalism, that a nineteen-year-old student has been arrested and is in the courtyard of our Parliament. Because the semantics seemed to me very heavy, to be arrested in the courtyard of our Parliament, I approached, we consulted with the man of MATs, said he had no identity, found his identity, showed it, intervened by the Governor of the Parliament, and the man was released as he should have done. I came down immediately after and at the moment when the men of the MATs gathered in front of the Unknown Soldier, in the center of our Parliament, two people, approached Mr. Yiannis Liakos, as he said after, who is a photojournalist member of the NSA and began to photograph the arrest. Then in front of my eyes and Mrs Bakadima two men of MATs, obviously without a directive from their superior, because there was no one there, they ran, they ran into the photojournalist, Mr. Liakos, and then they hit him. We intervened and stopped hitting him. We were then approached by Mr Marios Lolos, who is, from what I understood, because I do not know him personally, or the president or former president of the Association of the Greek Fotorators, and confirmed that they had already been arrested before what happened before our eyes, four other or five people, who were all members of the EACH, from what I understood. Obviously the anomaly is generalized and I do not say it micro-groups at all. I'm not that kind of person. I think you all know that. We all have a duty not to allow MATs, five meters from the Temple of Democracy -- and it's not their MATs, it's their political leadership I mean -- to hit a photojournalist who just does his job. Thank you very much for the tolerance, for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. When the Minister for Civil Protection comes back to the Chamber, you can ask him a question to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u215	And you, for the same matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u216	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u217	For a minute, please, so that we can then go to the Members who want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u218	As the complaint which has been made is very specific and very serious, I would like you, as the Bureau of Parliament, to mediate to inform Mr Chrysochoidis - it is five minutes away - to come to explain what is happening or, in any case, to contact Mr Chrysochide, although I imagine that responsibility is not individual, it is collective of the Government. That's the least we have to do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u220	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u221	You want to put yourself on the same subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u222	I just want to make one point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u223	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u224	I have listened very carefully to the complaints made by my colleague, whose exact printing I do not know and I will not be posted. I would, however, ask you, Mr President, to express in this Chamber such words as 'anomaly continues', because we are a democratic country, favouring the law, wherever and where necessary, and with the appropriate measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u225	Good. What I have to say as the Bureau, with the request of the parliamentary representatives, is that the Minister should take the matter to the Minister for Civil Protection, so that the Minister can come and say a few things to this House, as he has to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that there is a request for a roll-call vote by SYRIZA and I will read it to you: 'Mr President, on the basis of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, we Members, who are signing this request, are calling for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading the academic environment and other provisions'. Here are the signatures of the requesting Members. This roll-call vote will take place at the end of the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u226	Ms. Dounia has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, Madam President, a great deal has been said in the last few days about the Ministry of Education's bill. The reservations, the objections that have been expressed, may be due to the radical changes that this brings. Its change so far makes us well-known or misplaced as an insertion of status often frightens us. But you shouldn't. Without the necessary changes, corrections to bad texts and modifications to non-functional practices, we cannot move forward. If we were permanently stuck in what we found, we would never have made any progress as a society. Our education and, in particular, our country's higher education cannot be improved, it can become more qualitative unless we dare, if we do not change what keeps it vacant. Our government is doing exactly that. Talma. He dares to give the university his place and value. It is determined to contribute to the creation of a modern, quality and safe, but also autonomous university. This, as we all go down, would not be possible to achieve it by stagnating and inactive. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that whatever disagreement we all want for our children. This is nothing more than being able to widen their spiritual horizons and acquire substantial and useful knowledge during their higher studies, knowledge that will be a compass and a dowry for the future. Of course, we want all of this to be done in a safe academic environment, which will in no way jeopardise their health and physical integrity. So these demands come to ensure that the bill we are discussing today. But let's see how he does this. First of all, it attempts to upgrade higher education education. To become more specific, it introduces arrangements that redefined the way to enter higher education institutions and define the duration of students' studies. Thus, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs bill establishes a minimum import base per school, part or introductory direction, so that the introduction of the candidate students would require in the first instance the achievement of the corresponding minimum import base. The introduction of a minimum import base is primarily aimed at reducing the rate of non-integration of studies, which, unfortunately, is currently close to 30% of all students. The aim is, in other words, to ensure the successful study and the early completion of the studies. At the same time, this innovative arrangement aims to eliminate the phenomenon of extremely low import bases, which have been greatly intensified in recent years. To introduce a student into the higher institutions, without having actually written anything in the writing of the pan-Hellenics, it is certain that he generally deceives university studies and reduces internationally the validity of the Greek universities. The minimum basis for introduction, however, also strengthens the autonomy of higher education institutions, since each of them can now form its own academic profile. Thanks to this new provision, lastly, candidates will no longer be left to the convenience or difficulty of the pan-Hellenic issues, since there will be no opening-up of the opening-up base. Ladies and gentlemen, yet another ambition of the bill we are considering is to contribute to the creation of a university where students will study the subject they really care about and do not attend randomly, perhaps even compulsoryly, a school in which they have been symptomly spent. That is why we are providing for the submission of the computerised form in two phases. In the first phase of submission candidates will be able to complete the computerised form with a specific number of options. Following the announcement of the successes of the first phase, the non-enterprises will participate in the second phase. Their options will include those parts that still have vacant posts without strict numerical limitation. This is done in order to underline and strengthen the will and preference of the candidates. It is really a shame that students are trapped in a school that they don't want to attend. And because, of course, our children must have many alternatives to their future, this bill enables them to submit a parallel computerised form for their introduction into a public IEK if that is something they want. Finally, the bill we are talking about comes to guarantee the establishment of a maximum school limit for improving the operation of our universities. With this ceiling it is expected that the graduation rate will accelerate and the decongestion of our universities will occur. Since, of course, everything is excellent, special attention has been paid to those who are already in higher education institutions, but also to students with a serious health issue of their own or their own direct relative, to workers and, of course, to students with a disability. But what would all this make sense, ladies and gentlemen, if the university were not a safe and protected place? Protection of academic freedom is unnegotiable for us. In order to achieve this, we need to reorganise the academic environment. The Ministry therefore comes to adopt important provisions to improve the image of our universities and, in particular, the regulations on the safety and safety of students, teachers, workers and more generally those of higher education institutions. In these provisions we find, among other things, the controlled entry to universities through specific bodies and procedures, the establishment of university institutions' protection teams and an integrated framework of disciplinary law for students. The ultimate aim of all this is to prevent and prevent illegal and violent acts at the Greek university. The university is not meant for such actions, and anyone who wants to alter his character and mission should not be made a pretext. Ladies and gentlemen, our children are our future and we all want the best for them. Their education and ensuring a better academic environment for them is the least we can provide them. The draft law of the Ministry of Education aims at a higher quality higher education from the beginning to the end of its course, with the proper functioning of schools, high-level studies and protection from any element of lawlessness and violence. We can have better universities with greater international recognition and prestige. This bill is an important first step in this direction. That is why I urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you too, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that, under No 1816/1417, of 10 February 2021, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made by Article 43A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Subcommittees of the Special Standing Committees: a) Subcommittee on Water Resources of the Standing Committee on the Protection of the Environment, b) Subcommittee on Persons with Disabilities of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights and c) Subcommittee on Island and Mountains of the Special Standing Committee on Regions. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u229	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Vroutzis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make two comments in the course of the debate. Observation First: We are discussing a top bill from the government's side, from our side. We believe it is emblematic, we believe it is a great reform and we believe that it is a great change in favour of the country in favour of education. At the core of this bill there is a word that everyone translates from their own perspective. There is the word 'freedom'. It is not just academic freedom, it is journalistic freedom, it is parliamentary freedom. They are equal, with the same political special weight. That is why you will allow me to condemn at the beginning of my position the attack today against three newspapers, the "Dimouratias", the "ESPRESSO" and the "ESPRESSO", which, apart from the criticism I have had as a minister, and the logic of the political process is a condemnable fact. And I would like to hear that from all the wings of the House. Likewise, Mr Gregoriadis, I cannot assess why I do not know the facts as you described them just before, I would like to hear more about the Vice-Presidents with the same interest and the same study condemning the attacks on New Democracy MPs and offices that we see daily publicity. I don't see you've done it. Because this is more important, that is, parliamentary democracy, to defend freedom of speech in our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u231	You're making a set-off?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u232	No clearing, Mr. Friend. But when we see violence every day, crimes against New Democracy MPs, it is an abominable act against democracy itself and you should condemn it here, from this step, and you do not. Coming now to the substance of the bill, listening to the opposition, I am trying to condone the way in which it is put in place and to achieve a conclusion on the part of the counter-population. Four figures are quoted. First, academic freedom is lost. Secondly, public education is downgrading. Thirdly, we push people into private colleges and, fourthly, we surprise this bill. It's a lie, a lie, a lie, a lie! It's a whole different reality. I'm starting with the first one. We all know the parliamentary procedure very well in here. We know how the bills come, how they are discussed and how they are agreed. Well, then, the law of the Ministry of Education, introduced by its political leadership, is one of the bills that have been discussed and come to public consultation more than any other bill. He passed the committee of Parliament with a very detailed procedure, a very simple time-consuming one. All the Members who have asked for the floor have spoken, as is now the case in the House. It has passed through all the institutions concerned with education and has also entered the parliamentary process of dialogue provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the House. What else could he do? Most important, however, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is that this change, this major reform in education, was a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy, which we are therefore doing today. This is the answer, therefore, to Mr Tsipras' "speaking" and "speaking on the "speaking" of Mr. Tsipras's bill on the Ministry of Education. The second is that we are pushing people into private colleges. Totally wrong approach. If anyone believed this, and if the New Democracy really wanted to push people into private colleges, it would just do one thing: it would not bring this bill. Our aim and purpose is to upgrade public education. In the ideological reference of the New Democracy, in our statute, in our beliefs, public education is at the core, which we are protecting, which we are upgrading and for which we want it to be high. So it's completely utopian and false that we're pushing people into private colleges. On the contrary, because it is now a reality that as Minister of Labour I saw in 2012-2014 and now in the time I was Minister, there is, unfortunately, a discrepancy between professions, as shaped by a degree from our universities, with demand on the labour market. Today with 16.7% unemployment and outside the pandemic shell, yes, there is a demand on the labour market and there are no jobs coming to touch on demand. It's a reality, everyone admits it. And that is what the bill does, directing people to that side of knowledge, which will be able to come to meet the demand and supply of the labour market, as it exists. Is there a Member of Parliament who ignores this reality? Aren't we the country where we say there are no skills that the labour market cannot find workers? Yes, there is in Greece the unemployment rate of 16.3% -16.7%. Yeah, that's it. And I now go to the issue that has been discussed more than anything, because I think that here I am choosing my position, Mr President, to make a list of a long list of academic freedoms or not. We say there is no academic freedom, as there should be today. We question her. And we are seeking with this very bill to get into the core of the problem, to leave a past that through balls of legislation was coming to solve, supposedly, the issue of academic freedom and never succeeded. You heard professors, too, in the public debate, Members who were just saying - I do not want to mention, to overcome the question of personal petitions - that they cannot go to a public university today to talk. It's a reality. Those questions do not answer SYRIZA. He wants to draw a situation, so because he suits him, for ideological reasons, for political and micro-party reasons. I am therefore making the following reference, which has an interest in those who want to hear and for those who really care to see the truth in the face. A list, which is not absolute, is indicative of events that have taken place in universities and I would like, for this list I will mention, on the SYRIZA side, most of the SYRIZA side, a frank answer. October 2006. The then dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete, Ioahim Grysopoulos was attacked by hoodmen because he had asked the prosecutor for the expulsion of the foreign university. In 2011 the dean was attacked by hoodmen, while in the same year a group of thirty people invaded his class, threw eggs at him and punched him. He hurt the dean!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u233	What government was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u234	November 2006. The Court of Auditors had called for an international invitation to tender for the feedingstuffs. Students enter the office of the Rector Thanasis Karabine, take him out by force and build the entrance, because he was quite simply in favour of the competition. The six defendants for building are acquitted by the court. They built the dean, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u235	Why were they acquitted? Is there a presumption of innocence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u236	June 2008. The group invaded the courtroom, demanding by force that four-year planning contracts between the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the Ministry of Education should not be discussed. Rector Anastasios Manthos refused to promise him, so he was found in the hospital after heavy blows to the head. He was sent to the hospital the dean, gentlemen of SYRIZA. April 2011. American Nobel Prizeist James Watson was invited by the University of Patras. In the room they invaded anti-powered, and the Nobel Priest was rescued by a miracle, after he was planted at the last minute just before he was hit by a string. Two teachers were injured and went to the hospital. The teachers at the hospital! December 2009. The then NRP dean Christos Kittas was attacked by anti-powered deans who invaded the dean, resulting in a cranial-brain injury in the hospital. During his transport, he suffered a stroke. To intensive university dean! November 2013. Students enter the university and build the door of the office of Constantine Arvanitopoulos at Panteion University in support of the administrative staff of the HEIs who would be made available. They built the professor's door, the university dean! They built him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u237	The Catasfad?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u238	This Decision shall enter into force on the Students emptied bags of garbage mountains in the ERC Ref. Antonis Summer. They licensed the trash on the Dean's university's office! This Decision shall be published in the EEA The professor and today Minister of Angelos Syrigos is a victim of fierce beating within the Panteion University. In his honor, he did not mention it in his speech. Three people who made graffiti on the university walls got beaten by Professor Syrgygos, for simply commenting on the protection of public property. The current Undersecretary and then a university professor, Angelos Syrgos!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u239	The Catasfad?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u240	This Decision shall enter into force on the Attacked by hoodmen at the University of Macedonia - Thrace. The vandalism took place on the occasion of the debate that was held by the dean Achilles Zapranis with students during which he was ironically inclined. The hoods threw paints at the offices, while using the lotus and hammers broke windows and computers. Lots, hammers, university damage! This Decision shall enter into force on the The University of Piraeus invades a group of young people who protested the persecutions of Roman-Daliou, etc., in a classroom where international scholar Mary Botsi was teaching. Cousins, extra-university figures, enclosed the teacher with paints threatening her for her life and for much worse. They painted her with the teacher's paint!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u241	The Catasfad?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u242	This Regulation shall enter into force on The peak, which was described by Mr Chrysochide as well, was agitated by the Greek society. The brutality that shocked society itself. A group of fifteen hoodiers terroristly invade the office of the dean of the Economic University of Athens. He caused extensive disasters in the offices, walls and equipment of dean, while before they left, physical violence in the dean threatened him, devoured him, and in an extreme fascist way forced him to be photographed with a label on the neck in favour of the conquests. The only country that had tolerated its universities for decades to be a source of illegal data was our country. And now four irresponsible questions, gentlemen of SYRIZA, gentlemen of counterpopulation, who are against the bill: Question one. I read you a restraining list. There are others, which have not been recorded either because of fear or because of intimidation. Question One: What part of the world have these events occurred in universities? Answer: None.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u243	In America. With firearms, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u244	Question two. The damage caused to universities, the destruction of buildings, the vandalism that has been done on computers, who has finally paid it? Minister, who's paying for the damage?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u245	The Catasfad who is a Minister. Did you hear who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u246	Let me give you a reply. The Greek taxpayer in his pocket pays the losses, Mr. Friend, for being against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u247	The Catasfad who is a Minister. Did you hear who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u248	Question 3... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Madam President, you see, Mr. Philis is annoyed by the truth. He can't keep his inability to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Philly, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u250	Question 3: If there were the law that we are bringing to Parliament today, would these events have happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u251	Worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u252	Answer: No, because there would be order, legality and freedom of academics within universities. Question 4: Do these images ultimately upgrade or lower public education? Answer, I think, of all of them: they downgrade her and they plunge her. And it is not worth such public education, which we all want - because we believe in public education - to be treated like this. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing this bill. We bring it out loud, knowing from the outset, promising and pro-electionally for this great reform that we will find against the forces of inertia, the backward forces, the forces that have long been wanting this pathogenesy and the negative image of public universities. That is why, with courage, the political leadership, Mr Mitsotakis, the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, we are a fist to change the future of the country, because we want an education high, because we want to guarantee a much better future for the new generations of Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u253	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Tsakalotos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, university teachers, but not only, have a habit of asking questions that students should answer. But many times we do the opposite. We are giving a text from a scientific article and we ask the students in one, two paragraphs to tell us what the question was in answer to this text. In other words, if students can understand what was the question of a professor, an author. We are now giving this bill. We would ask the citizens: What was the question on which this bill is the answer? One citizen responds "the upgrading of education". Does this turn out to be the upgrading of education? Does it appear that we want to go to the goal set by the European Union how many graduates we will have? Does it result that there is an increase in funding? Does it appear that with increased funding we will be able to improve the quality of study? Does it turn out that for the three hundred retired every year, is there going to be a replacement? Does it turn out that you have an increase plan for each year, so that we can reach a certain level? I do not think it would be the right answer if the question was about upgrading education. Another student, one citizen, answers: 'Be more social law'. That's the answer. Is that the result? You have cut the two-year curriculum for people who wanted training and that will mark your whole life, Mrs. Kerameou. All your life, this will come after you, because you've shown your class partition. Is it the 1% Mr. Skourlett told you about the kids going from the night and you said they could run tests anyway? Is that social education, that it'll be like the United Kingdom, open for everyone, free for all? Where does it appear that you are concerned here, sadness about society, about the social part of education to be for everyone and everyone? Nowhere. There goes that student's answer. Does it turn out it's for security? That's where we won't look at the bill. But we can look at what Mr Syrigos said. Mr. Syrigos' speech for a university professor was incomprehensible. Undetermined! Do you know who you reminded me of? You reminded me of Jorge, who is from the "Name of Rhodes". He was the monk who in the monastery did not want people to read Aristotle’s comedy, for he would undermine religion. Did you really read texts that dispute that teachers should not have second-hand jobs and third-party jobs? Are you questioning that there is a problem with teachers, that they are very integrated with the state? Have you ever read "New York Review Books" or "London Review Books", even once educational articles? All the issues or 50-60% of the issues you mentioned in the notices, in the declarations, are discussed not only in the University Community of America and Britain, but also among ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u255	And they're eating wood?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u256	That's not what we said. What will the police do? Will he stop these notices? The notices had arguments. You may not have liked these arguments, but they had arguments. Is that what the police will do, stop these announcements, these slogans? You should tell us if that's what we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u257	If that's what you understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u258	And the last thing would be that it increases freedom. Again Mr Syrgyrgos told us how he understands freedom, what views he is excellent to the government and what they are not. He recorded them one by one. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is any serious question in this bill to answer. I, like many and many of you, because of Lockdown, have the opportunity to read a little more. The last thing I read again was Sophocles' "Antigone". In most of the comprehensions - which people have read once or forgotten - it's a bit like a Western, like a cowboy. Antigone has the white hat, Creuse has the black hat of evil. It's not like that. And I have to tell you, Mrs. Keramou and Mr. Syrigos, that you are much worse than Cretan for two reasons: The first - when you read the text - because Cress slowly understands the battle and the conflict of values. Do we commit more to the family and this bond or the logic of the state? And slowly, as the drama progresses, we understand that something has been understood by Cress. Something has understood from the criticism that apart from the logic of the state, there is the logic of the family. You don't understand anything. The second reason is that Creuss supports the logic of the state. That's what she does. You don't do that. You do not support the logic of the state. You support the logic of an elite. That's what you're doing. You have all gone and grown up in the same environment, you have gone to the same schools, you have the same university studies, you live in similar homes, you have similar entertainment and you have been completely separated from this reality, from this society, from this university community.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u259	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u260	You're not even the elite. You're a elite clique who doesn't want to understand. That because you grew up in the way you grew up, as I told you, you believe that the laws do not even concern you, nor do the rules concern you, the others. And finally, that's why you have this authoritarianism you've got and you're acting like you don't understand. Mr Brutsi told us there was a lot of discussion. Is that our criticism, Mr. Brutsi? Mrs Kerameo said that she had a lot of talk. Is that the argument of SYRIZA, Mera25 and the JRC? Is that the argument? Our argument for democracy is not that. It's that the moment we have a pandemic, everything has to change. Of course, you must legislate for the pandemic and the economic consequences. Unless you have this minimalist theory of democracy, that democracy is only that we can prosecute a government after four years. If you don't have that, I understand that democracy is more complicated. And resistance and proclamations and struggles are something that must coexist with the legislature, and that is why you are shrinking democracy. Because the clique of the elites you're supporting doesn't suit it, and all that's left is authoritarianism. It is a bill that does not answer any question of modern university education, nor how it will be improved, nor how it will become socially fairer, nor how students and students be able to participate in a life where they can have critical thought and not have a Mr.Syrigos come to Parliament and report to them because they are disturbing a lot of things at the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u261	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor now from New Democracy and then the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Kerameos will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u262	Madam President, do we have any younger than Mr Chrysochide?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u263	At the moment, not, but I imagine that at some point Mr Chrysochide will come and inform the House. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Once again we heard everything in this bill, we heard again that we were elite, we heard a thousand two things. Mr Tsakalotos, what we have not heard - and I honestly think it is a joint request from all the Members of the New Democracy - is that you take the role that you deserve. Take the role that suits you! Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u265	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u266	The Opposition! On the contrary, help the parliamentary work, help the government in your way. You are, unfortunately, elsewhere else. Symbols! It is useful to be able to make practically opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, after more than fifteen years of parliamentary presence and more than thirty years in the political sphere together with my students, I would like to make a brief statement - as far as I can - an overall political and experiential experience and as a student in higher and secondary education and as a parliamentarian, but above all as a citizen. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, in the last thirty years all of us - without any exception, I believe - have repeated dozens of times the words 'transparency', 'under-financing', 'unemployment', 'assessment', 'evaluation', 'eternal students' and many others. Depending on this, more than ten Ministers for Education have argued that they have designed, directly or indirectly, a framework law, a major reform that solved the problems - the chronic problems - of our educational system. Many of these efforts have been incorrect and superficial, others have been serious or have involved substantial measures, as I believe the current Minister, but, unfortunately, many have remained semi-finished or overturned. And you know why? Because we never succeeded in this country - ever! - an educational system to embrace a whole generation, hug the primary student to the high school graduate. Never! We see continuous changes, we see changes even in the same government, when the ministers change their legislation. This does not help, ladies and gentlemen, education and education in our country. We see reforms and changes that have failed, especially because they do not come into a comprehensive reform that has a start, medium and end, with measurable results and long-term objectives. Because no reform and no law can be implemented successfully, if it has only a majority within Parliament and if it does not have the social majority, the majority of society. Therefore, good legislation - and not a simple law that is passed - must express an institutional picture of the will of the social groups to which it relates rather than the small majority, minority groups which create these problems. On the other hand, when you're oppressed by the educational system, you have to be deeply engraved in your mind that you have to have a uniform strategy of principles and goals that runs all the grades from kindergarten to university, all the way to learning, from formal to informal. You cannot ask a seventy-seven-year-old student to choose strictly and targeted university departments when in elementary school one did not care to cultivate his criticism of ability, or to understand that the adequacy he takes depends on whether he chose his professional status or came to him, that is, if he did what he wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as I agree with the police in universities and in the university community, as much as you legislate a disciplinary law, you will never be able to protect the university community unless it protects it and does not seek to protect it from a large majority of the university community. As far as students and teachers are concerned, I hope and believe - as it seems - that they will embrace this for the majority of them, as long as this majority - which is great - wake up. See one example: I had taken the other day to S.H.I.E.L.D. In fact, the guarding he has in recent years is excellent. Is it possible, however, to protect the university from violations and illegality, from the illegal activities carried out? Of course not. That is why moderate voices and measurable acts are required. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to a number of SYRIZA colleagues. Really, once again you impressed us. Apart from not being able to play the role of counter-population, helping, or judging, criticising and promoting the work of the government, they were very - unfortunately this time - politically rude and provocative many colleagues. I don't see them in the Chamber right now. And the question is: All those who spoke this way - and you were MPs in SYRIZA's governance - what have you been doing four and a half years? Did you suggest any of this? We had two Ministers for Education, which, as I said before, changed the laws after the other and today nothing. I would like to thank Mr Syrigo, since I am given the opportunity, the Deputy Minister of Education, who, on the first day he took up his duties, made a teleconference with the Members of the Region of Western Macedonia and the University of Western Macedonia and firsthand took an important view of what is going on there. And I say this because if regional institutions are left without infrastructure, with little laboratory and academic staff, or with visitors, in two, three years' time they will be devastated and that is very bad. As far as the strengthening of regional institutions, such as Western Macedonia, is concerned, I shall refer to our own university - as much as we pursue it, we do not do so to feed the retail trade, consumption, such as the skin of some prosperous, backward modernists support. We are doing so because strengthening regional institutions is in line with effective regional development and real society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, and I'll be done. For example, the merging of departments with greater interest, foreign language departments, postgraduate programmes, the University of Ptolemais, as we talked about, Mr. Undersecretary, the School of Health Sciences in Ptolemais, which currently has some departments. In particular, the University of Western Macedonia has recently passed excellent certification. You should note that in 2013 with the project "ATHENA" was strengthened and strengthened. But today's role - especially today when we are putting the 'fair transition' after the lignite age - is catalytic. And that is why it should be immediately strengthened with human resources and infrastructure. Otherwise, the legitimate reluctance of our fellow citizens to "fair transition" will be frustrated and denied. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I would like to say that the linking of regional productive models and advantages with academic life and backwardness only brings beneficial results for Greece. A reconstructed Greece, a Greece that is re-established in the international environment on the initiative of the Prime Minister, a Greece, which we are obliged to support for the new generations, because it is a bill that we believe will create a better tomorrow. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u267	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing aims to raise the level of study in higher education institutions, improve the academic environment, ensure more targeted, more qualitative choices for our students and greater autonomy for our universities. Let me begin by thanking people who have made a key contribution to this bill, such as the Deputy Minister of State, Angelos Syrgos, the Deputy Minister of State, Zetta Makri, the Secretary-General, Apostolis Dimitriopoulos, the former Deputy Minister of Education, Vassilis Digalakis, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, on constructive cooperation in matters relating to specific aspects of security in the areas of universities. The aim of the bill is to give our children, our teachers, the entire academic community, the university they deserve. Five pathogens, which I hope will never be involved in the parliamentary procedure again. Five pathogens, for which we consider it paradoxical, that there are still 2021. The first is the introduction to universities without academic conditions, with grades ‘1’, ‘2’, ‘3’, ‘20’. Our answer? Academic conditions for admission to universities. Currently, under previous government regulations, candidates from the pan-Hellenic universities are introduced to the universities, even with a degree of 0.6 to '20', while almost 30% of students are not graduated. In particular, in departments and schools on the basis of the introduction of less than ‘7’, an average of one in two participants is graduated, while in some cases only one in five. Our proposal is therefore for the introduction of a minimum basis. Minimum import base as absolute size, say '10'? Oh, no. Why not? In order not to depend on the degree of difficulty involved. Minimum import base, the same for all sections? Oh, no. Why not? Because the curriculum is different and it is important that, in our view, the academic conditions for admission to them can also be differentiated, in order to give greater freedom and autonomy to our universities to determine the conditions for admission to them, the minimum import base, the weight factor of the courses. As a percentage, therefore, not as an absolute number. Minimum basis set by each university section as a percentage of the average performance of all candidates in the same field of science. We are therefore introducing self-evident. Academic criteria for admission to our universities, and in this way we are strengthening the preconditions for successful and timely completion of studies. We shield the authority of our universities, strengthen their autonomy, enabling them to form the same, the academic knowledge they desire. Passivity second: Introduction of candidates to parts that have actually stated randomly, say the centimetre, the two-dimensional option in the computer. Answer us? Collaborators, targeted youth choices to introduce more young people into sections above their preferences. Today that there is no such framework, only one in two - ladies and gentlemen, this statistic is, I think, important - it chooses the part in which it ends up studying, within its first five options. And one may well end up enrolling in a section that has chosen as two hundred. And one will say: 'What's wrong with that?' No, it's okay. First, it's okay because the chances of him studying and graduating from the department are too low and it's okay because he takes the place from someone else who wants to study specifically at that university department. The 2018 CEDEFOP study stresses that Greece is a 20th third, between twenty-eight European Union countries in the effectiveness of the educational system, to develop skills that have an impact on the labour market. So there is this gap, this gap between what we produce as an educational process and what the labour market really needs. We therefore propose that a computer should be submitted in two phases, thereby seeking to introduce more candidates into departments where they really want to study. Passivity third: Over 40% of our students have passed the n+2 years of study. Our answer? Studying with a curriculum, like any educational process. In the debate we presented elements of EUROSTAT, which show that we are at the forefront of the number of students in the country, in nadir on the rate of graduation. We're second, we've got 7.14% of the population going to college. How much is it in other countries? What we are talking about is 7.14% in other terms is 3.9%. And we are last - and unfortunately, long last - on the graduation rate. Annual graduation rate 9.17%, when the European average is 24%. Students are broadly introduced into schools from which they cannot graduate or to schools of interest. Almost half our students end up being eternal. To say figs and boats, a system of condolences has been set up for candidates and families, which promises university-level studies to candidates who do not really want them or who cannot respond to them and offer them no way out for the future. We therefore propose the introduction of a maximum period of study with special care for students who have a good health ratio, for workers and for athletes who are distinguished by legislative improvement. Every educational process, ladies and gentlemen, is taking place in a specific context that has a beginning, middle and end, and adapting to this context is also part of the educational process. Like a student, your son or daughter, can't be fifteen years in grade III or in grade I, in exactly the same way, it doesn't make sense for a student to be in college for twenty years. This unlimited period of study integration does not help the university. It keeps it captive, low in international rankings, does not help the student because it prevents him from being integrated into the labour market. Pathology fourth: The distorting concept that the only path of educational elevation is university. Our answer? Parallel educational paths, quality alternatives to education and training for our young people. Let's be honest, let's talk about things the way they really are. Decades now have a diffuse culture, which places the acquisition of a university degree as the exclusive prospect of resilience. University, whatever it is, the student may or may not complete the program, has or has no prospects of professional rehabilitation. We are living in an increasingly evolving international environment, where such a terrain does not have a place. Today it is about providing our young people with knowledge and skills that suit their calls, their desires, their skills so that they can cope successfully with modern challenges and with flexibility in the conditions that are constantly changing, become integrated citizens and professionals. The parallel computer we are establishing for the first time gives the opportunity to register in public IEK through this computer. It therefore highlights the alternative routes of education and, in particular, public vocational training. In our country we have this paradox: Youth unemployment, our Parliamentary representative mentioned it earlier in his excellent placement, increasing demand for technical professions, but insufficient supply and misrepresentation of produced and demanded qualifications. Only three out of ten graduates are led to vocational training, when in European countries the reverse applies. We have said this before, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the last bill that we brought about a month ago, on vocational education and training. It's not a social elevator of education. There are many, and there are many, with many parallel alternatives. These alternative routes we stress to our young people, after we have strengthened them, enriched them, we have brought them closer to the real needs of the labour market and let them be completely ignored by the Civic Opposition. Let them do what they do not exist, let them underestimate them, let them deceive them. Occupational Pathology Fifth: Systemic outbreaks of invasiveness in certain universities of the country, fear, injuries, crimes, disasters. Our Reply: A safe environment of study, freedom of expression, teaching and research, academic freedom. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways. The first is to do that everything is going well at the Greek university, that there is no problem. That's what he said the other day and your representative at a radio station. Obviously, that is not the reality. If that were the reality, then why do our country's universities systematically choose to do important events - their hundreds of years, the proclamation of an honorary doctor - at hotels and other places outside the university? If that were the case, then why do you have established teachers and say: "I do not have the freedom to call the one I want in my lesson to speak." Why? Fear of reacting to certain teams at the university. He described them in the most glamorous way, I think, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Syrigos. So the first road is to say that everything is perfect. But I don't think it is. He doesn't look forward to that actually. There's the other way. Identify all of us together that there is a problem, not all of the universities of the country, not a horizontal problem, but there are systemic outbreaks of infractionality, outbreaks that tarnish the image of the Greek public university, which insult its excellent human potential, which hamper the development of the university and jointly seek solutions. What are the alternatives? One that has been discussed in detail is to leave the matter solely to the universities. But this solution, ladies and gentlemen, is the one that has been in place for decades now. How long are we going to wait for us to make it clear that this solution has failed? Just that we are here today in 2021 and we are discussing this issue again, this proves in the most eloquent way that this solution has failed. Two months ago, a dean went through. This is a picture that really embarrasss our country, embarrasss our human potential, our teachers, our academic community! There is also the solution that we are proposing: in matters of preservation, of course, in universities, but in matters of deserving deeds, it is clear that it cannot have the competence of the Greek police. And it wouldn't be the dean's job to go after the drug dealer, the one who throws cranders, the one who makes molotov. It's not his job to deal with it. We want the dean to deal with the administration of the university, to stimulate teaching, research, extroversion, to develop the university, precisely to promote the development of the university. So in this bill we propose, among other things, the controlled entry. This is an international regulation. Whoever has reason to enter the university can enter. The university is not cut off by society, but a framework is also in place there, as is internationally the case and everyone is now protected from this control. We are also proposing the creation of groups for the protection of university institutions. Question: Why do we need a special group? Answer, three points. Point one. Because we consider it very important that this group receive special training, tailored to the specificities of the university area. Point two. Because we consider it very important that it can act dissuasively at universities that we know there are systemic outbreaks of infringement. Point 3. Because it is important to have direct contact with the Greek Police, with the other bodies of the Greek Police, which will be able to intervene if necessary. And because a lot has been heard about the image of the Greek university, no, I say this very clearly: it is not the norm for lawlessness and for wrongdoing. And in many cases the academic environment of our country's universities is truly envious. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents a few photographs]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first picture: a library at a public university in our country. Figure 2: Library at a public university in our country. Figure 3: Library at a public university in our country. They're envious images. Also, a public university in our country. These are images of public university, of the university we want, that are worthy of, that our children deserve, that are worthy of, that our teachers, our staff, spaces of knowledge, research, teaching, spaces of clean and decent, spaces that are envied by every university internationally. But it's not always like that and it's not everywhere. And, no, it's not just four, unfortunately, the incidents of violence and lawlessness, as we call ourselves Vice-Presidents. Unfortunately, it's a lot. And if I mention one now, I will do it so that we can all have the image and turn it down once and for all. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents a few photographs]] Host of a Senate with a request to postpone examinations. Attack against dean Greek public university. Arson mechanism at a university in the country. Attacking nobelist. Eggs and punches to a university professor. Glasses - nails at the University Department. Beating a branch president. Narcotic police operation. Arrests for rape she reported a student. A crippled student beating. Attack against the current Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Angelos Syrigos. And, unfortunately, this terrible incident, the dean of the Athens University of Economics. Ladies and gentlemen, they are shameful images. They are images that hurt our democracy, our values, which anger us and put us all before our responsibilities. And because a lot of talk has been made about the famous Signalling Center, this so-called Organic construction, electronic mobism, this perversion of the New Democracy Government, which, like her, ladies and gentlemen, exists nowhere. Let's start with your dear Oxford. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents a few photographs]] Control room, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA in Oxford. Control room, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in Cambridge. Control room, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in Bristol. Shall we go to Spain? Control room, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, at a university in Spain. Shall we go to the Netherlands? Control room, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, at a university in the Netherlands. There are control rooms everywhere, Mr. Friend. So, all universities are perverted internationally? Are they orthowellic? Understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it's not a farce. You're the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who So let us put an end to the culture of immunity, the suffering of lawlessness, the undermining of our own universities. Young people - who were alleged to be young - who took responsibility for an intervention in my office last week said that universities are places where there are houses and occupations we ideologically weigh and organize our political and social struggles. I am very sorry for this view of young people and, as they claim, students. No, ladies and gentlemen. The university is a fountain of knowledge, it is a fountain of learning, research, fertile exchanges of views, expansion of spiritual horizons. It is not a place of ideological fermentation, recruitment and occupation. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Madam President, if you're kind. These are pathogens of yesterday that keep our universities like weights behind. And here lies the hypocrisy of SYRIZA and those who defend the existing regime in the name of an alleged freedom that is supposed to be affected. They are the ones who prevented the amendment of Article 16 of the Constitution, seeking only public higher education and without wanting to be upgraded. Now they're refusing public police and they're opposing private security companies. They are those whose members and relatives teach at foreign universities, where all this is wasted decades ago and defend chaos in Greek universities. As Professor of Oxford, Mr. Stathis Kalyvas said: "It is, however, completely unforgivable to enjoy the privileges of an Oxford and at the same time to fight to perpetuate the mess in the Greek universities." In a crescendo of populism, SYRIZA shared positions with the universities of the country: Introduction with unit ratings, university departments with last-minute amendments. Every village and department, every candidate and a ruthless success. What if these studies don't lead anywhere? What if the departments are not viable? What if they didn't guarantee any future for the students? It's okay. We shared positions, departments, schools. Greece of mediocrity. Greece of the minor effort. Greece of populism. You want - and I'm sorry to say it - the new generation of mediocrity detained, at the very least, at the very least. And after all, it's no accident. So many days now that the bill is being discussed, by SYRIZA, on the issue of security, none, except the famous proposal by Mr Marda, Minister of the Government of SYRIZA, for police officers - students incognito. Why is there no proposal, ladies and gentlemen? I'll give you my interpretation. Why are you seeking to maintain a sad situation in universities, because it helps you to fish in cloudy waters, to cultivate party customers and ideological mechanisms. Prophecies in sins. First: "Not enough dialogue has taken place." Maybe it's one of the bills that's been discussed most. Public consultation, hundreds of publications, opinions articles, discussions on television, radio. Here in Parliament, for an exception to the President and the Conference of Presidents, three days' discussion in plenary, which has rarely been done for any bill other than the budget, with more than one hundred and fifty Members registered. Second pretext: 'You cannot legislate in the midst of a pandemic'. The pandemic's been holding a year now. What do you suggest? I asked you yesterday. Should we lock this House and reopen when the pandemic's over? The fact that we have been here for so many days in and out of Parliament despite the pandemic shows precisely the power of democracy. And after all - under the script how controversial is a regulation that puts an end to importing someone with a 1 in 20s? Title III: "Why do you give money for security and do not give it to personnel, for operational purposes, for homes?" Answer me. We also take care of the safety and other needs of universities. We increased by EUR 142 million the education budget, EUR 90 million more in ERDF projects for higher education, hundreds of million from the Recovery Fund, over five hundred 50 members' posts a few months ago, two thousand scholarship posts, construction of new student restaurants in Crete, Thessaly and Thrace. But yes, it's security too, it's an academic environment. All these are vital pillars of well-functioning university. Judgment of the Court of First Instance in "Everyone is against this bill." The polls show impressive percentages in favour of the bill. I am not going to talk about the voters of the New Democracy, but about society as a whole and, in particular, about the voters of SYRIZA and KINAL. Controlled entry: society for 75%, SYRIZA by 60%. What's SYRIZA gonna vote for? We don't know. Import base: society in favour of 63%, SYRIZA 52% in favour. This is a minimum basis for introduction. University Police: in favor of 60% of society, SYRIZA reaches 40%, 38.3%. SYRIZA says: "I'm very pleased. When the question is: Do you or do you not agree with the violence in universities?' But that was not the question, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I imagine it was released in a note you sent internally to your parliamentary group, because you have all mentioned this. What, then, was the specific question? It was "Do you agree or not with the violence in the universities?" Oh, no. What was the question? "Do you agree or disagree with the establishment of a University of Special Training Police operating within the premises of the IOI?". How much more specific can the question be? How much more specific? All this will be submitted for the Minutes. SYRIZA says: "Even Oxford against you in the bill." I confess when I heard it I was surprised that Oxford would take a position on another country's bill. Em, don't! It's the placement of an Oxford worker union and guess who's an important member of this union. Mr. Antonis Janakopoulos, brother of Mr. Dimitris Janakopoulos! What else are you going to make up for, gentlemen of SYRIZA? So here too, I will put it all together for the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill demanded by society, which is common sense, which clashes with post-multiple forces which afflict our universities almost half a century. Let us finally take the step forward, let us deal with the modern challenges of universities and not with problems that other countries have been through for decades now. I hope that we do not have to analyse again in this Chamber: because it is common sense that there should be academic conditions for admission to university. Because it is common sense that it does not benefit anyone to enter into the two-tier choice of his computer, a random choice. Because it is common sense that it is not normal to be a student for twenty and thirty years. Because it is common sense that there is a principle, middle and end in every educational process. Because it is common sense that there should be only anyone who really has reason to be there and that the controlled entrance protects all those present. Because it is common sense that the university does not have a position of violence and lawlessness to build teachers in their offices, to disperse advances, to cause incalculable damage that the Greek taxpayer ultimately pays, to sow fear, to reap the turbulence. And we have to teach the new generation that all this is not normal. All the last few days I have received messages and calls from teachers, from students who tell me: "I agree, do not do back to anything, but I'm afraid to go out and say it." It's time to break this silence, break this morbid tradition. It is time to break up once and for all this smell of fear and censorship at the university, which thrives there and nowhere else in our country, as our rapporteur, Mrs Papacosta, has done very well. Finally, let us look at the current challenges of the university, with better links between universities and the labour market, with industrial doctorate, with partnerships in the private sector, with double-teaching programmes, with common study programmes in cooperation with foreign universities with exchanges of know-how and human resources, with research programmes, with upgrades of quality indicators, with innovative studies and publications, with digitisation of systems and procedures. So much knowledge, so much potential, so great human potential! We're not allowed to let that go lost. We owe it to our children who are anxiously claiming a better university. We owe it to our excellent academics who wish to focus on their research work. We owe it to our different institutions that claim the place they have to belong to the International Academic Charter. We owe it to our country. Let's give our universities the level of study they deserve, the academic environment they deserve. Let's go claim their place on the international academic map. Let's go, at last! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Minister. I will read to you the list of the next speakers. I will immediately give the floor to Mr. Clonas Gregoriadis for just six minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Papaliou will take the floor from SYRIZA, Mr. Lazarides and the former President of the House, Mr. Voutsis. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment first. The listing of notices and publications which, whether they are notices from those who you call bizarres or are publications relating to the action of the so-called bizarres, in my humble opinion and the opinion of Mera25 in general, do not in any case constitute political analyses and arguments. It's just a quote of notices. And I wanted, Minister, with the well-known kindness that distinguishes me and looking into your eyes to ask you: Do you mind that you are ruling nineteen months? Exactly nineteen months. You've spent nineteen months. You know, I've been listening so long to talk like you took over your authority and your ministry yesterday or last week. I want to say this directly to the whole House. In my view, the Minister would have the right to say that if she had taken over a month ago. All these pathogens - if you do not realize it, dear Mrs Kerameos - are pathogens that have been in charge for nineteen months now bear your own command. You should have done something about these pathogens for nineteen months. Do you know what you've done? You have abolished the asylum and you have done a huge - I am sorry to say so raw - a hole in the water. That's what you did. I want to ask you even more. All these horrible pathogens, for which I very much agree with you, how did they come about? As I like to say, did they fall out of the sky? What happened? Have our higher education institutions been affected by neoplasms? Did universities get cancer? And, in any case, do they have any responsibility except for students, eternal students and all others, all the governments that managed our educational system? You know, Mrs. Keramos, the party to which you belong has ruled about half the years since the Century and from now on. It means that at least half or at least half are responsible for the horrible diseases that you have just listed. Here's a pathogen. You say, "What do we want, finally? Do we want the '1' or '2' tests to enter the university? No one wants to enter with grade 1 or 2 at the university. But I want to ask you something about it. If the level of ever more seniors of our secondary education is such that it gets '0' or '1' or '2' when it goes to give the university, who is to blame? Are they to blame or are they to blame for the educational system, which is eighteen years old, unreliable, unreliable and completely uncultivated? It is, of course, the educational system, which I am also very sorry to hear - your 'profile' assisted by the other historic 'profile' - within many of the introductory and jokers - of PASOK has brought it to this place! So it is, Mrs Keramemos, that you - in the broadest sense - are to blame for your prolongation that people in Greece arrive, as the people say - apologies for the expression - "incense pens" in the high school degree. It's not my fault. I didn't rule. I'm not a Minister of Education for seventy years now. Your lineup with PASOK and a fillet of SYRIZA is. All of you to a certain extent are to blame. The rest of you are not to blame. And you know who's not to blame? It's not your victims' fault. It is not the fault of the children of Greece, which, when they arrive at an unresolved state and, as I said, eighteen-year-old pens, is the sadness of the educational system you have built from the first grade, from the kindergarten to eighteen years old. So let's say that's the way it is. So what is the solution, Minister? The solution is to stop those who have left amorous for eighteen years from going to another grade, even if they happen to open their minds to be educated? I ask you directly. So I think you're doing this, even as it really is. What's gonna happen then? In other words, the law passes and we have twenty - four thousand less people a year in our universities than those who wrote under the base. What will happen, Minister? Automatically, next year, will they write above the base because the previous ones were punished? Does that make any sense? I'm looking at you all in the eyes, the MPs. Does that make any sense to you? It doesn't make any sense to me. I'm returning to violence. It's too bad for violence. I'm the first one and I think the only one here who took the floor and said that as long as there's images of a dean that some people - if you can tell them like that - they're passing a sign like a donkey and they're making him say something the opposite of what he thinks is, fascism has hit us at the door. I was the first to say this and this is an answer to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, who has implied neither too much nor much that we never say anything about the other side. I'll beg him to be very careful. I'm giving her all the distances perfectly equal. Any act or action that it puts against democracy is equally dangerous to me and the Mera25, because it leads mathematically to the hug of the future 'gold dawn'. I want to ask you something. Did you see, Minister, that violence disappears at all with the abolition of asylum? I warned you. Mr Chrysochoidis and you had come here nineteen months ago and told us that once the asylum has been abolished, which the obsessed SYRIZA and the obsessive leftists in general of PASOK - who are other left-wing fears! - they didn't abolish it, problems would be solved. To bring a solution to the creation of a university police, something to tell me that nineteen months later, no problem was solved! I want to ask you one more question. Do you think that all this violence, all the violence in society, is a product of a hundred, two hundred bulbs that act on four - four is all - or five at most from our forty universities? Do you think that this violence is worse than hunger, for example, that these people have been suffering since seven years - which is now nineteen years - because of your memorial? They suffer the violence of hunger, they suffer the violence of the cold - because they put handbags - and they suffer the violence of unemployment, they exist, they exist, they exist! These unremovable, Minister, who arrive to give white glue, are children, who are nineteen years old today and who have suffered the violence of your memorials, the most ruthless violence of all time! Do you come and dare move their fingers and tell them that this is violence? That's not the violence, I'll let you know. Violence is all but these. Haven't you ever thought of a young man having no chance of becoming a luben? Why, look, Minister, how things are and I will end almost immediately, Madam President. Look, Minister, how are things? From seven years old, his parents were unemployed at times if they belonged to two and a half million unemployed who were able to create in that country. While their parents were unemployed, do you know what happened to a percentage of them? The father slowly turned into a drunkard, an alcoholic, and beat the mother. What do you expect to do in an environment where unemployment keeps feeding anti-social behaviour and phenomena? It would be luben behavior to people who are the blame of the whole society! They're blind. They don't know who they're dealing with. They're messing with whoever they find in front of them. What's the solution? Take them to more repression? You want to take the MATs to the universities? Is that the solution for luben people that you created? Congratulations! I shall end, Madam President, by addressing Mr Chrysochide and the dear Mrs Makre, who has just left. He told me that 'anomaly' is a heavy word. I ask all of you directly: If seven MPs, on their own, without any other crowded crowds, are prevented by the Greek Police and the Citizen's Minister publicly welcomes it, on the day of the Polytechnic's anniversary, to walk from our Parliament to the American embassy, without being a wrestler or not going to arson, is there any or no anomaly? Do you know the Constitution? The Greek Constitution says that you or I or the Madam President can go wherever she wants to do her duty. That's spoken and explained. And I'll finish with just one phrase. Today, Madam President, Mr Chrysochide's chosen Chamber, the Order Restoration Units are supposedly creating these units for many years in Greece - they have been arresting more than a hundred people, for no particular reason whatsoever. All these people were out here complaining about your unacceptable bill, Mrs. Keramea. Mr. Chrysochoides has these people in the GDR. Some of them will be arrested. I ask straight away and ask all of you: are, in your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, more dangerous than a hundred people who have been arrested today by Christos Pappas, this atrocity, moral self-defense in serial murders, who has escaped arrest for more than a hundred days, destroying his evil and extremely dangerous plans for our country? Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u271	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Papaliou has the floor now and Mr Simopoulos follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by making two comments on what was said by the Minister, but beforehand by the Secretary of State for Education. First of all, I would like to say that reading notices and taking photos is not an argument for the documentation and support of your bill. And the second thing, which I think is essential, is that the latest statement by the Minister for Private Universities highlights the purpose of this bill: the assignment of higher education to private interests and the exclusion of fermentation policy in the field of higher education institutions. After all, your poorness has been - it was from the outset - that it was not possible to revise Article 16 of the Constitution to allow private universities in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is introducing another false bill to the vote. Neither the introduction to higher education is promoted, nor is the protection of academic freedom guaranteed, nor is the upgrading of the academic environment attempted, as misleadingly referred to in the title of the bill. All the opposite happens. They promote all the opposite. In the context of the neoliberal policy of the government and the subsequent invasion of public goods, the government has targeted health and education first of all. As far as education is concerned, our homeland has a negative record of the proportion of students - teachers. A teacher accounts for 38.7 students, when the average ratio in the European Union is 15.4 students per teacher. Instead of overturning this unacceptable situation, there is no teaching staff, but a thousand special guards. It is not surprising that the government for all diseases refers to authoritarianism and repression. Police and MAT everywhere, even in the sensitive space of universities. With the universities it is closed almost a year, with the entire university community across, with all the political forces against, even with important and serious officials of the New Democracy, with the police associations across, the New Democracy Government introduces to the vote the current bill that violates the constitutionally regulated self-government of the universities, attacks public education and ultimately attacks democracy itself. The government has been systematically slandering public universities for years, while at the same time reducing their funding. There are 13% less resources available for this year, which will certainly be even less in the future. The draft law does not interfere on the substance of education. They are excluded from universities by thousands of children, resulting in the widening of social inequalities and the creation of customers for private colleges. After all, the government has already equalised the graduates of the three-year university colleges with the university degrees. The Greek public universities, however, are internationally ranked and their graduates are sought abroad. The draft law restricts the number of importers by imposing an import base on a tendering procedure rather than certification of knowledge. Pan-Hellenic exams are a competition. In this context, the question of candidates classified under the base should be addressed by upgrading high school, in particular by transforming the third class of high school into a substantial secondary education class rather than an examination precursor for admission to university and by upgrading the disinfection centre that will provide substantial knowledge in terms of equality, social equality and inclusiveness. In the bill, the least privileged young people and young people, from non-preferential areas of the urban centres and remote regions of the region, i.e. local societies which the families of the candidates are unable to pay for their training or have the resources, are able to send their children to private colleges, without import criteria, a minimum basis for introduction and examinations, without supervised teaching, where they acquire, if they acquire, only some skills to become an cheap workforce for the large business groups. The logic of market excellence prevails. The same is true of so-called 'eternal students', as most of them are workers who do not charge the budgets of the universities and above all are affected by regional universities by abolishing departments and reducing the number of students. Regional universities are well known for this, national and developmental purposes. As for the second part, security and security. You are working on the existing problem of safety and infringibility found in certain universities, seeking to deal with it without the consent of the university community, without dialogue, without taking into account the realistic proposals of the Republican authorities, solely in terms of generalised and unconstitutional repression. Extreme settings are promoted, based on the doctrine "law and order" or rather "terror and struggle", devaluing dialogue and aiming at tension and polarization. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Even pretexts are slandered as addicts to the threat of abuse and instead, you seek to establish a police force at the university. Ladies and gentlemen, the police are set up in schools. Her presence refers to the stone years of the aftermath and the junta. I am sorry to refer to these periods by confrontation, but the Deputy Minister of Education himself, in order to defend this provision for the establishment of a police force in the universities, has referred to the rules and practices of the junta. Thirty-three special guards are therefore recruited at 30 million, and there are no loopholes in teachers and members' posts. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight for education is a battle for democracy. The law, in fact, is not going to apply. The academic community, teachers, students, all university workers, and parents who are fighting for the future of their children, young people and young people will not allow it. I'll finish with a report by Moria's old man. When the university was built near the palace, Otto asked Colokotronis how he looked. And Moria's old man answered him that "so..." and showed the university - "he'll eat that," that is, the palace. And that is because knowledge is a power that overthrows everything in its path. You, with the bill, fight against knowledge and, above all, its spread to many. I appreciate and predict that the way things are evolving with you, the university, the university community, knowledge and freedom will crush your Government, the government of neoliberalism, authoritarianism, which is linked and strengthens the powerful and great and has turned its back on the vast social majority and especially on young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. Now Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u274	Madam President, Minister, I must comment on what Mr Chakalotos said. He's used to doing it. Looking towards the benches of the Coupling mentioned with great comfort that its executives are essentially a large group of majestics. I know very well who is sitting on the coup d'état today. They are people who, like me, come from people's families and fought in life to reach this point. That is why the New Democracy is the great popular party. This is not what you can understand, especially the people who are today in the headquarters of Officerial Response. This little fairy tale, let's stop. This is not the case, and the Greek people know it very well. Because most of us are flesh from his flesh. In this Chamber, too, I see, on my right hand, the expressions of regularity, and on the other hand - I take care of what I say, do not say another thing - I would say that I see those who do not express normality. Why don't you express it, gentlemen, and ladies of Officer Opposition. You're the expression of movements. The "Ecology" is now dead, because the economists will also come down. And you do not express it, because society says 'yes' to this legislative intervention. And it says 'yes', because, basically, society wants a university in which the children of the people's families will be able to study more comfortably, as many of those who sit on the coup d'états today. Because people's families are interested in being safe at universities. And there's no today. Both our Minister and our parliamentary representative and the Undersecretary have mentioned you very much, too many examples. We must have freedom of speech in universities and we do not have it. And, if you want, I will also criticize the government. He had to bring it earlier. It's late. He could bring it along with the university asylum. That's my opinion. He had to bring it in earlier. And he had to bring it, because it's not about all the universities in the country, it's mostly about the largest ones. Come to Aristotle's vast campus. But, there is a library, there are the monuments of our Jewish fellow citizens, there are other actions. All of this must somehow be safeguarded. We also need to safeguard the way our universities connect to the economy. Today, if any action is organised in this direction, it will not be done at the end, because the groups which prejudge the Presidents and the teachers will intervene. Obviously we would like as many people to enter universities as possible, because the fact is that it is a way out for the children of the people's families. But there is also technical training. There are today places where, instead of belonging to the scientific proletariat, he will be given the opportunity to make his life extremely comfortable. Well, what do we do? Not everyone can pass in white glue. And at this point he wants attention to certain university institutions, such as, for example, the Twin wall Nursing, which also play a national role. I would also like to say this about computerization: it does not change the way in which the examinations are carried out. It is simply given on two levels - a different possibility - so that, in fact, people who want to study a particular science and close to their home place have that possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said the government is late. And the reasons are societal - I mentioned them - but also politicians. What are political reasons? The enormous difference that we have with the Left, and above all with the Civic Opposition, is fully illustrated. And you will allow me to disagree with some colleagues who have had a consensual climate. Consensual climate, yes, there is. But this is where we call 'East' and you're 'wind' or otherwise. I agree. There can be no consensus or consensus, and we cannot either blackmail it or beg for it. Finally, through this process, it proves your opposition nakedness. In the last few days you have dealt with a "monkey" trip to Egypt, you have dealt with Ikaria and a meal, you have dealt with the detention conditions of Koufontina. At the end of the day, we heard that you accepted the risk of mergers by your President. And, of course, today in this area you are really oppositioning. And, indeed, it has ideological content. But stand up for it. This, in fact, is what the Greek people want. And there is nothing the Organic in what the government is enacting today. There are no interests, there is no junta, there is nothing undemocratic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Madam President. And the fun is, you believe them. At first I didn't know if you believed them. I'm sure your Chief doesn't believe it. But most of you believe what you're saying. Fortunately, however, society is listening to you. That is why, unfortunately, the mile you are calling on to follow will be green. I borrow it from the homonymous movie. Your last mile to 3% will be green. Finally, I have no problem asking, for example, that there should be a single vote in the student elections. There's something we could possibly agree on. In addition, for the recognition of college degrees, there is a solution. Yes, we can also agree with the European Union's demands, but the procedure cannot be formal, Minister. The committee which is to be set up at the Ministry of Education must be a committee which carries out effective control and does not simply put stamps on it. I obviously call on you all to vote in favour of this emblematic reform, for me. And, of course, the bet on the Ministries is to be applied, as should the Protests Act, as should the law on the registration of trade unions or electronic voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u275	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u276	It's not enough to institutionalize. We must also apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u278	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I listened to previous arguments from the Minister, I would really be concerned. I regret, however, the impoverishment of the arguments, which has been overshadowed by propaganda. It is a disgraceful propaganda to speak from morning to night for the introduction of "1" to universities. It may be about a few few cases or it may have happened at some point, but it is not about the seventy thousand who have just entered. Why do you raise this matter? Because, indeed, you don't have any arguments. Also, the remembrance of violations of human rights on well-known violations and problematic issues that have been experienced over the past 15 years by three ministers today shows that you have nothing more to say, you have nothing to say about what we are talking about. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I want to tell you directly that your silence, for example, for the classification of Greek universities worldwide, your silence about quality...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u279	I've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u280	You didn't say anything. ...and for the quality of our children, students, students who both come out on the labour market and in general public speech, this silence shows exactly how you think about it and others that you must promote in your opinion. It is wrong - and you should not do so, Minister - for the professor, Mr Janakopoulos, to speak in this way about the association of teachers and teachers and managers of Oxford, in which thousands of members are involved and are an equal member, but also a member of the Bureau, Mr Janakopoulos, and had brought the relevant communication, which came out days ago. You spoke in a disgraceful way that shouldn't suit you. Finally, in relation to your speech, I would like to say that, of course, the university, Mrs Keramos, is also a place of fermentation, expression, condensation of political, ideological views and discussions. Do you have any regard to the history of the university movements of the previous century, of this century and of what is happening around the world? How is that possible? It was very revealing that retaliation you made on the occasion of...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u281	One intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u282	Yeah, an intervention or anything. I don't care about her. But I want to tell you that you are the wrong person to make that retaliation. Of course, beyond the provision of knowledge it is also interactivity at the university, the space of the university is primarily a place of condensation and fermentation of views. You have responsibilities, Minister. First of all, of course, your government is responsible for the pandemic in relation to the schools. Perhaps, for the first two months or later where there were some research, you might have been reassured. However, the fact that you left them without making any intervention to find extra hours, extra spaces, additional possibilities and our children to be every fifteen in each class and that now, in ten days' time, my child went to high school - we bring them back to school, that you did not help to get the tests, and above all, the traceability of the family environment from the hundreds or thousands of cases that have been, is a problem. The fact that you have done nothing about equal access to telecommunications is a problem. You have heard before about the west. Disprove them. I feel incredibly privileged, in the sense that my home is able and at some point we work at the same time four people, two older and two children, with computers. It is clear that this environment can only reflect a minimum elite. And you didn't do anything so that access to telecommunications would be equal. And, of course, we also had the 'flavoured' amendment, which has been heard a lot and you have not found anything to say. You put the cutter on. Drive the kids to college. What does this responsibility indicate, which I am accusing you of? It shows that you systematically functioned, taking advantage of the extraordinary conditions in which we are due to the pandemic, with contempt and class division within the field of education. And, of course, in the field of higher education, it is your incredible insistence, in this situation, to pass this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this is - I will speak politically - a deliberate challenge, ideological, policy - one colleague mentioned earlier and, in the pretext of dealing with, obviously, existing situations or violations of some of the previous years. Under the pretext of this is a deliberate challenge, which is part of - quite clearly - the intolerance that today's ruling party has, Mr Mitsotakis personally, you, Mrs Kerameos, personally in relocation, because you want through your strategy to dismantle those who led to their governance - you, the New Democracy and the PASOK - in the major economic crisis. What do you want him to go through to the Greek people? You want him to pass that there are some abscesses of post-population, which led the country to the crisis. And what are these? It's the university, the famous left ideology that didn't even have 10%. They are the guarantees and the rights of work in particular. It is the freedom of manifestations, demonstrations, the possibility of sharing speech and opposing the public space. These are things that you regard as a premier of the crisis, which we have experienced for decades in the country and which you feel as a priority and a need for strategic response on your part, because you are precisely ideologically, politically, programming you are on the opposite side. You do not want to admit the enormous, incredible responsibilities which sometimes have been borne by the governments of your own, in this respect, a party, Mrs Kerameus, all these years, on how we have come to the crisis and how things are maintained, which should have been healed for a long time, a purely biased, classic conception of our recent history, in which the question of education is a knot. We understand that. We all realize that. It's emblematic. I heard you yesterday morning - because, as you saw, I followed the whole debate, neither did the associates write to me nor come by to make a speech in this House - with care. I attended the Minister's anti-constitutional application. I didn't count the times you said about the hard core of the state. So much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u283	It's a pretext.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u284	Excuse me, if it was case law, you should report it once. You're smart and you understand, Mrs. Kerameau, what I'm telling you. What I'm saying to you is that you have a concept of a strategy of enforcement, where the hard core of the state you think is the basic power, the basic principle of enforcement in all the manifestations of public life. And you made a contrast between autonomy and self-interest. You made it three, four, five times, to impress the opinion of the public in the educational community within us in the House that the self-employed ends. On the substance, no more. Here and on the basis of the majority, and on the basis of the harmony and enforcement of the hard core of the state, everything will be controlled, everything will be legislated. Besides, in your bill, see what the penalties are. It is a lack of financial capacity to universities, disciplinary, cutlery. You have a criminal record. It is not simply that you are invoking the need for what you call and is the hard core of the state, so that it has general supervision and general viewpoint and policy formulation on a space and from there on, that there is the self-employed. This isn't about it. We're talking about an absolute check. We're talking about manipulation. What you have tried in some ways - and you have imposed - on the media, what you have imposed on other joints, institutions through which information is breathtaking, people escape from phobia, they come into contact, they form opinions, you want to impose it on a university, which is within the health zone. There's also a great hypocrisy. Let me tell you. How many checks were carried out at workplaces these 11 months? How many checks did it take? What results did we have? What penalties and fines have been brought in? Where the world, without taking breaks or even in the lockdowns, is conspiring in the workplaces, in supermarkets, elsewhere and elsewhere, in public transport, what is going on? I told you before about school. Now I'm talking about the government as a whole. You understand that. That's not your responsibility. How many checks did it take? Where is the welfare, the caring, which you show for the universities, with the universities closed down for a year? For a year the universities have been closed and you are interested in exactly what will happen by placing the police at the university. Mr. Chrysochoidis is missing. I will simply say a sentence: The speech by the Minister for Civil Protection today was the epitome of the police state. I mean ideologically, politically, I don't speak specifically. It was the epitome of the police state! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And he merges with you, beyond the ideological hegemony, which you want to acquire, to recover as it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u285	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u286	Of course, you don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Anastasiades, we're not interrupting him. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u288	I can't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u289	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Lazarides, please. Mr President, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u291	Please, Mr. Lazarides. We are having an ideological political debate and you understand that, because I have said from the outset that it is a deliberate, in my opinion, a programme challenge on the part of the government and in this area. This is an anti-reformist, anachronistic, authoritarian character. That is our view. Also, because there was a comment this morning on what the Chief of Officership, ladies and gentlemen, today they protested thousands of young people out with their masks, whatever distances, etc. Of course, he has made sure that Mr Chrysochoidis makes a few hundred turns at the end of the gathering. I'm leaving that. I refer this to what I said earlier. But is there a risk, obviously, from the demonstrations? How isn't there? There is, as there is from public transport, all of it. Who is responsible for this challenge? Imagine there was a silence! I shall end with that, Mr President. You are evolving into a government, a political force, which is divorced by society, by the actors, by the people concerned, by the people who are in these areas and instead creates a cohabitation pact, we would say, or a survival pact with the polls. With what polls? With the poll showing that ERT has taken off, with the poll showing that everyone wants the police in the university and that everyone goes showing their identity. He shouldn't have a number on him? I'm talking about these polls. Are these polls set? Don't play between us. It is the management of fear, it is the strategy of managing the great fear, of the great despair, which all of us, our families, our people, have spent months in our country because of the pandemic, because of the unprecedented situation. In this unprecedented situation, then, you are making a systematic strategy for managing this fear. So do a poll on a world that feels threatened around - not just by the coronary - from uncertainty, from the fact that he closes his shop, from being unable to communicate, to kiss his children, his parents. That's common, horizontal. We know. In this situation, then, instead of winning social consensus, what are you doing? You do it cynically, politically. I don't raise you personally. It's a government strategy. We saw it in other bills. You are setting out polls, which are results and answers, the result of uncertainty and fear. Can you object to this argument, which I just submitted to you, to oppose how it is not? So you are a government and for as long as you are still, this will be at the expense of our country, our people, our youth. You have been divorced from society and you have made a contract for your survival with polling. You are also a government that, with authoritarian governance, no one answered Mr. Tsipras this morning when he said that 'two months ago I have tabled a proposal', as the Qualified Opposition has the right to discuss matters of democracy, democratic governance. See Parliament's two decisions, Mrs Kerameus, recommendations to governments about what they should do or not do at any time of pandemic. Is that right? It's not from Mr. Tsipras' head. No one has answered him where this proposal has been put underneath, because it is not of interest to you, you do not want to discuss it. You want every drop, every day, every second of this pandemic, of this crisis, to make use of it ideologically, politically, programming for your own extreme, neoliberal, neo-right perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, good evening too. Happy birthday to Charalambos, to Joshua. Calm down, on the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u293	Could I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u294	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll be short. I would like to refer to something that the President-in-Office has said. First of all, he said no tests. The reality, Mr Voutsi, is this: In schools there are also sample checks and a special platform has been set up, edu.testing.gov.gr, specialist for teachers and students over the age of sixteen, in order to do as many times as they want to test and we urge them to perform tests. That was the first point. The second point is that you said we didn't do anything. You said in word - your words - about the parity of access to telecommunications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u296	Madam Secretary, why are the schools closed tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u297	I've answered something in particular, Mr. Voutsi. You said that there are no tests, and I specifically answered what is happening, what is the reality. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u298	Of course, there are no mandatory tests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u299	May I? I have not interrupted you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u300	Please, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u301	The second point is that you said that we did nothing about parity in access to telecommunications. The fact that Greece is the only country I know, at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u302	Please! The Minister's talking. Here's what he's gonna say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u303	The fact that Greece is the only country I know at least - correct me, if I am wrong - that has succeeded and negotiated with all mobile operators to be free to use data for anyone who enters a platform used for telecommunications, do you not think this is a very important acquis? Have procedures been carried out from where the SYRIZA government left four and a half thousand portable devices in schools for over ninety?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u304	How much did you send?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u305	Please, Mr. Philly. Same again? He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u306	And, unfortunately, Mr President, you have fallen into SYRIZA's trap of making the huge advertising in colleges. If you don't get into college, only way to SYRIZA is colleges. SYRIZA ends up being the biggest supporter of college! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why am I saying that? Because there is something, Mr President, called public training, public IEC. Don't take them. Don't underestimate them. They are very important structures for which a bill has already been passed that updates them as a whole. Third point, Mr President. You were President of the House. You know the procedures very well. The opposition to unconstitutionalism is a process in which purely legal arguments are developed. For example, distinguishing between autonomy and self-government is a basic principle of constitutional law, such as the basic principle of constitutional law and the case law of the Council of State. The S.T.E. He's talking about it. If you don't like them, what do we do? However, the concept of unconstitutionalism has purely legal content. It is not a political debate, as we are all doing here now. The last point is this. Did you say we limit the institutions' self-interest? What about us? We who are the first government to give the universities power to define the minimum import base themselves, the weight of gravity themselves? What have you guys done? You, Mr Voutsi, have come to predict that the Minister should sign each study programme. A undergraduate wanted to do the NRP and you said: "No Minister's signature". What did we do? The Government of New Democracy came here and signed: 'No, the universities only decide on them'. The best thing I can do for the end, Mr. Voutsi. You say that we want to limit the self-employed of universities. Do you know what you've done? You have made sure that what money each university gets is an arbitrary decision of a single minister. Each minister decided what money each university would get. And you're telling us that? What did we say? Criteria objectively and qualitatively. No Minister can do anything he wants. There are criteria for what money each university gets. Objective and quality criteria, evaluation. But you, Mr Voutsi, wanted universities to check on each aspect of their activities through the money through approvals. This is the fundamental difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u307	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u308	And thankfully there is this disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u309	Please, Mr. Comrade. That you don't agree is certain. We know that. We've got it. Respect it when it speaks, as it must respect you when you speak and the world will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u310	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u311	You have differences. We get it. Shouldn't people listen to it and not to draw conclusions? Should we interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I agree with her that we have a complete disagreement. No, however, listen to 'cassets' all the time. We must listen to arguments, we must not suck the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u313	That's another matter. The world will judge, Mr. Philly, whether it's a "case" or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u314	Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u315	The meeting cannot continue, the government is lacking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u316	I know, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u317	Maybe he needed something, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u318	We're people. Mr. Famel, if you want to sit or continue, whatever you want. The Minister will soon be with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u319	Is that a government image? Aaaaaa! What does he do? Five are the ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u320	He had to go where he had to go, Mr. Friend. What can we do? We're human. He's been here since morning. I've noticed. Please! Don't make a thing out of nowhere. He's been sitting there since morning. He's a human being.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u321	That's the government! I've been absent from the dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u322	Mercy, Mr. Friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u323	A bite, Mr. Philie...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u324	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating aims only to reduce the free higher education of our country, public higher education and to introduce a series of antidemocratic and authoritarian provisions into the operation of Greek universities. It is not a posted part of politics, it is part of an organized draft of the government, with anti-democratic changes in our country, which are evolving into the pandemic, exploiting the conditions and the inability of society to react, because they do not want mobilisations, they do not want losses in their politics. I could describe many parts of this plan, from banning concentrations to carpets to canalarchs and squeezing truth. But I shall confine myself to this bill of the Ministry of Public Order. I say this provocatively, Minister, because I think it is a disgrace for the academic community of Greece, for our country's minds, for Greek democracy, for Western culture to recommend a bill of education for the Minister of Public Order! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This bill shows that your aim is to limit production and trafficking of ideas and to subdivide youth. Because you are well aware that your main enemy is the ideas, the young people and the young people of Greece. Because the young people and young people of Greece, because the ideas of our country, knowledge and science are not imprisoned. Because they represent the hope of society and because they have only one perspective, a need, to live, to have progress, to have a protagonist, to have a better society. And why the young people and young people of Greece, because the ideas of Greece detest the ruffles, the DAPites, the blue children, the Gorches and the ERA of 1960, in which you want to turn us. The imprisonment of ideas is the only tool that could save Mr Chrysochoid and Mr Mitsotakis, but it cannot be achieved. To achieve this plan, then, you are seeking a overwhelming blow to society, outside your election commitments. Why don't you tell me that you wrote somewhere in the program that you're going to reduce the invaders or create university police. You are confronted with the prefectures, the trade unions of the police, even with the officials of the New Democracy and with former Ministers of Education. Of course, when the precursors or the academic community are not useful, Mr. Chrysochoidis is swayed by Mr. Chrysochide, to understand how much value you give the academic community. You deceive her when she doesn't agree with your authoritarian plans. They couldn't all go crazy and agree with SYRIZA. Quite simply, with this bill you are degrading functions and academic freedoms that have also been supported by conservative personnel. Legitate with ideas of the Middle Ages and darkness. Refugee basic principles of Enlightenment. One example. Faced with the value of knowledge and education you put the tests and raise them to a higher level than knowledge and education itself. Faced with the competition of ideas and the excellence it creates in evolution, you put the authoritarianism in. And you know that this is nowhere in Europe, as is the tools you are legislating today. But the more your only political survival tool is authoritarianism, the more the Mitsotakis government looks like the Orban government, because we move away from the European ideals and your arrangements are unfortunately returning to the 1969 regulations, as it has been said, that the police had a student centre within the universities. You are leading us to a dystopian future for universities, with two objectives: first, to deepen and broaden inequalities. In practice, restrict access to the university of all children and young people in our country. Secondly, impose both authoritarian functions. How is that possible? If you read a little sociology in the third grade, this lesson that you left out of the curriculum, because you were afraid of the ideological hegemony of the left, you would see - on the basis of the theory of French sociologist Pier Bourdie - that the educational system operates as a system of choice that favours the upper classes, if there is no political plan, at the expense of the rest. In other words, access to universities depends - and that is what you are seeking - on parenting. So, confirm Mr. Mitsotakis, so that young people and young people from the western districts of Athens can do only for coolers. So the bill, on the basis of the introduction basis, punishes young people and young people. Practically, he punishes the children who wrote worse. It does not ensure the same conditions of education, does not provide support for learning specificities. He punishes the children of nights and professional high school, and only gives the opportunity to go through with those who have money. This, in a nightmare year when the children of the third grade and their families are tortured by the pandemic and the inability to attend the courses. And the weaker economic groups, the vulnerable social groups, do not have the money to support their children in this race that they'll give with the Third High School exams. This year you choose to reduce the invaders by about a quarter, about sixteen thousand less children will enter the university this year. This perhaps shows what is the real policy, which Mrs Kerameo revealed in her speech before. Mrs. Kerameos revealed which vision they have for the new generation: "We do not need scientists, we need unskilled". They're building a society of unskilled people with the basic salary to work where? Probably in the Greek casinos? So without a future and a prospect, without competitiveness for our country, a society that is rewarded with the minimum wage. That's Mrs. Keramea's vision. That's where he wants to reach the Greek universities. It magnifies inequality. But some wonder: Now, in the pandemic? Why now? Why did you choose this year to torture the young children? I have three excuses. Or they demand it and the interests that have made you a government that keeps you in the place of the Minister, Mrs. Keramos, personally. Or you're afraid you won't be in that position of time, in the position of the government. Or you want to take advantage of the pandemic so you don't have any reactions. Whatever the feasibility is, you certainly have no purpose in supporting the new generation and the universities. Because the result will be a reduction in admissions, which will not help the excellent, because, as I have said, 25% of children outside, some sections will be closed down completely and the majority of universities will have fewer entrants. What about those who stay out? Those who have money will go to private colleges, where Mrs. Kerameos, with a scandalous amendment of night, gave her rights without an examination. So without the university exams, without giving examinations for a professional licence, so without two steps of assessment, the unsatisfactory will get permission to pursue a profession. This, then, proves that this is how you completely fall down both excellence and progress and knowledge. You're reducing the universities at the same time. Who will compete to enter the Greek public polytechnic when it can with money at a private college get the same degree as the same rights? Not the same degree. Same rights. You need Greek polytechnics as well as institutions such as the Chamber of Economics and the Chamber of Economics. And all this could only be supplemented with an organic project with electronic security systems, with a digital stud of control of telecommunications, mail control, possible control and decoupling, who goes to assemblies, who performs performances on the system used by certain teachers and with the police, which is manifestly unconstitutional. It's not applying anywhere in the universities, it's a global originality. In conclusion, Mr President, it is clear that all the republican authorities are contrary to this law for the police. How do you support her? You are raising events that are happening in the rest of the social sphere and at the same time not implementing the current framework that enables police to intervene where there are misconduct. To achieve your plan, what are you doing, Mr. Kerameau? I have the feeling that you are the first Minister of Education who has slandered the universities of the country so much and has crossed the Greek universities internationally. You're telling us that the Greek universities aren't in the first place and you're dispersing them every day. And today all the Members of the New Democracy are passing through the Greek universities and the academic community to prove that it is not safe. To get through their plan that's getting shorter. You do not account for the impact on higher education. Just like you didn't tell me what happened in schools when you pressed to open up, without knowing exactly what your purpose is. You were telling us then that there was no danger of pandemic, and Mr Chiodras came here the first week and told us other things about young people, the possibility and the possibility of spreading the virus through youth. You were disproved in all, Mr. Kerameau. Today you come here to pass the most authoritarian, undemocratic project for the Greek universities. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, these plans are not corrected. They're just overreacting. It's a matter of freedom, it's a matter of democracy. And we believe in young people and young people, who believe in ideas and progress, who want to envision a different future, a tomorrow with progress, with hope and with smile, with fewer inequalities, less exclusion and more opportunities, without discrimination from where you come from, from which family, what society, what you believe and what economic order represent, will we say one thing: it will be one of the first measures that will be degraded and dismantled into the progressive governance of the country, with the first priority of this authoritarian abomination that goes back decades in the country and higher education. I never thought, Mr. Kerameau, that you'd get this low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, too. I shall give the floor to Mr Zesi Jekalaya from the New Democracy. Then prepare Mr. Dritsas and Mr. Lazarides. At 18 noon, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Pafilis was asked to speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Step two leading SYRIZA members, the former President of Parliament and a former Minister of State, have decided to partly adjust my speech. For the fellow Member who has spoken abhorrently for the FAD, I have to say that the students have been free for almost thirty years - a few years after our own student years, Mr Phile - the first power of the FADN. Yesterday we celebrated the world day of the Greek language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Phil, you're very naughty!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u329	The Greek language and education forty - seven post-military years are brutally abused. They're constantly retreating. In this was an important part of the fact that, while three parties changed to governance, the Minister of Education was changing, not only when a party changed to the government, but often when a Minister changed to the same government. This bill is consistent with our government programme that we declared years before the July 2019 elections. It follows on from these bills we've brought for a year and a half for vocational education, for university asylum, for IKKs, for foreign-language departments in public and private universities. It is a bill with which we aim to raise the level of study, raise the Greek university. And in order to do so, there must also be a remarkable choice of those who enter universities and students to find a healthy, safe and peaceful student environment. The level of study should be satisfactory, high and when they graduate to compete in Greece, Europe and the whole world. They also have diplomas to ensure their professional rights and have access to the labour market, to contribute to the economic, scientific and technological development of the country and, of course, to combat unemployment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Left Party is a great opportunity for you to join us in this bill which is very important. After all, you can see that this bill encroaches, across the entire Greek society, all layers of political origin. There have been so many arguments about the polls that show that your voters too agree with the measures that finally came a government, a Prime Minister and a political leadership of a Ministry of Education to bring. You have the great opportunity not to go back to 3%. We want you where you are now, where you are 20 units behind us. We do not want you to go back to 3% for the sake of democracy. This bill, therefore, strengthens the autonomy and autonomy of the Greek university. I mention two examples: Each department and school can choose from 80% to 120% that will have on the minimum import base or, if you like, select which lesson and with which gravity factor it will come. We're not surprised. This year's high school graduates will proceed to their preparation. We're interested in everyone. There will be exceptions for those with health problems or for employees. Of course, we are interested in them and we are not disgraceful about those who are called by the 'eternal students' society who, for some reasons, have been late to finish the university and are able to study in a period of time equal to that of each school to finish the university. We believe in free movement of ideas. The free movement of ideas is ensured in many ways, particularly through academic freedom, with the effective protection of university asylum. That's why I'm going to say something that might not have been said by now. We are setting up the protection teams of university institutions, which some have called 'university police'. It's not a shame. I mean, it's time to break the abscess of lawlessness, destruction, hawala, that these protection teams won't need. Why am I saying that? Do you forget that in the years of the real democracy, after Constantine Karamanlis was transferred to the elections in 1974, in which elections took place with absolute and indisputable democracy, were there Greek soldiers guarding the gun and bayonet over the electoral divisions? Later it was found that they did not need and that there were men and women of the Greek Police in each election station. Now, basically, there's a patrol patrol in more polling stations. I believe that once the real academic freedom has been restored, it will be time for these university institutions to protect themselves. I will finish by mentioning, Minister, the regional higher education institutions. I am glad because I know that the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, you personally and the Deputy Minister of Higher Education believe, expect and will move towards strengthening the regional and, in particular, the outermost universities that are three: the Aegean, Thrace and, what comes under my area of Western Macedonia. We have already legislated with the two thousand fifty-five points and under which it takes to be able to leave the regional university, with the support of the students' homes, but also with what has not been stressed, the informal locability, that is to say, with regard to the student from the outermost region of which he comes, if he is on his first five choices, and if he is always understood to be above the minimum import base, he will not be able to take the place of someone from another region of the country that will not have that. So I urge you, Minister, to do what you have said since this year's introductory examinations, that the number of students admitted in the Attica basin and in Thessaloniki will be drastically reduced. This is the only way to find students able to enter regional universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will close by taking a leap and saying that we recently said that after the annexation of the Dodecanese to the national trunk of Greece in the 1940s, this government has raised Greece for the first time by extending the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea in the twelve nautical miles. This is the first time after seventy years Greece has grown spatially. It's time, Minister, with this bill growing spiritually in Greece. And I shall explain - Mr President, I shall end in half a minute - what I mean. I mean, I'm convinced that as long as Athens grows, Greece is growing. So the more regional universities grow, the more spirit diffuse, knowledge and education toward the region, the more Greece will grow. That is why I call on you to significantly reduce the number of introductory examinations. They don't need so many students either in Athens or Thessaloniki, but they need the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Jekalaya. Mr. Theodores Dritsas is now called in Stepma by SYRIZA and Piraeus I.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, my dear colleague, Mr Gikalaya, you did not understand that this bill does exactly what it does, reduces the number of students mainly in the region and closes sections mainly in regional universities. Also, I would like to thank you for your love so that we don't go to 3%. But, as this government does, 43% will go, Mr. Jekalaya! In any case, we have no ambitions for 3%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Madam Secretary, you misunderstood before. We are fully aware that there cannot be so many hours of constant stress. We have also been through them in ministries which were a minister, while you are four. But that has a solution. The Minister or Minister may request an interruption of the meeting for ten minutes, precisely for some reason that he or he chooses and ends the matter there. The meeting cannot continue in the absence of the Government. That's out of order. But, Minister, for the third or fourth time, I think you have managed to get off the streets of Athens and the other cities of Greece, more than seven thousand young people protesting fighters just at a time when things are so difficult and all those who live and experience the problem are asking you to choose to stop this bill, not because this is something terrible and terrible, something unprecedented, but because it was even the extremely authoritarian and conservative leader of the Right, the old Constantine Karamanlis not in a bill, but in the n.815 when he realized that social reactions were creating a social cohesion issue. This was something that honoured your historic leader in his historic path. And now you consider it something unprecedented that the whole House, apart from the Greek Solution, asks you to withdraw the bill? Where and how far are these unprecedented for democracy? What kind of autocracy and self-confirming autocracy is this? Where and where? I have heard your speech, Minister - you have spoken twenty-seven minutes, instead of eighteen, in any case, all the ministers have exceeded the time - and I have seen that you have spoken only fourteen seconds, so at the outset, about the fact that the Greek universities have their good works. And this in such a bill that is judged precisely whether or not we will give the Greek society the message of whether or not it will trust the Greek universities. You're not the only exception. And the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, and all the ministers, all the members of the New Democracy from the parliamentary and government headquarters, from the channels, from the newspapers and from everywhere, and all your system is systematically slandering and degrading the Greek universities. You have been sending this message to Greek society for years. Don't pretend you're supposed to care for lawlessness. It is the pretext for converting Greek universities into a market accessory, not of the production process, but of the market, in terms of authoritarian, reactionary, anti-lingual, technocratic and beneficial for an oligarchy. We know the part that education plays. We weren't born yesterday. And we know very well what reform is. I have heard a colleague from New Democracy, something that I was pleased to hear, but I do not know how she means, because she is much younger, referring to Papanucho and Delmuzo. But do we have anything to do with this? These things you bring us are reform? Do you have any connection to what you bring to us with the upgrading of education, so that the entire Greek people can be educated? Irrelevant and distinct from their integration into work is education. And if you want to discuss what you want now and the 'cutters' you put on for young children, the problem is not whether a child with '8' or '7.9' - why can it join '8', but '7.9' with your own measures stay outside, okay? - but the reason why high schools don't get students ready to study and receive them from the Greek universities. Why isn't there a prestige in high school? This has to do with reflexively in the whole range of education with the same school leak that starts from primary school and until we get to the end of high school, they have left education over half the children. Are we going to see a reform of this so that we don't need the care centres, or are we going to get comfortable with the ways they take off the outsiders and, of course, go to colleges or do they get unqualified for market exploitation? Does anyone want much to think about that? Does he very much want, when your own partner at the Ministry, Professor Syrigos, in his naïveness in the Chamber of Parliament, brought unsolved complaints of cannibal behaviour - convicted completely, but complaints, as Euclidis Tsakalotos said - to do with tour teachers - and not one and two - who are five-faced or cases of entire sections that are integrated into the geostrategic, geopolitical, economic, business and political lobby, Greek and international? Will we see a reform in this, so that we can see what 'university' and 'democratisation' mean? We shall, in any case, see what the view on the education of the New Democracy and the Left is? Because, indeed, there is a huge difference. For us it is education, education, culture, self-government and self-consciousness, while for the Right it is beneficial to exploit individual units in Gezi of economic exploitation, with some prospering and having the benefits and others as a whole being of the train and at the moment chasing every young man of five degrees, to survive. And that's considered positive! In this direction, then, you are ending with the slandering and disdaining of the Greek universities! Say, at last, a good word - and not once in fourteen seconds - give the message to Greek society and then see what the polls will say! Then let's see! You're imposing your word!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u332	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u333	I shall conclude, Mr President. You've got arrests! You need to get them all out at once! Let go, Mr. Chrysochoid! He refused - Mr Chrysochoidis is hiding - and other parties have asked for it, and Panos Skourletis, our Parliamentary Representative - to come here and tell us what happened! A hundred arrests for a peaceful demonstration? Really? And this thing you consider very normal in pandemic conditions? And you found the candy to slander President Alexis Tsipras that he allegedly said it's okay to spread the virus to the protests. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Is that what he said? Yeah? You're a provocator, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Lazarides, you'll come and tell them. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u335	It's not your fault, it's all your silver communication staff! I don't understand that fat money you find? Two hundred million euros you have debts! Where do you find them and feed all these mechanisms, so they can come out every day and poison Greek society with fake things, moving the conversation elsewhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u336	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u337	That's education, culture. And you don't have him. You are deeply sleepy that you will survive, taking advantage of the pandemic crisis. You will be severely punished by the Greek people who know how to endure, they know how to suffer, but they also have a test of justice and they cannot tolerate any mocking by anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. The reason for this is Mr. Mercury Lazaridis, from Kavala, from New Democracy, and then, as I said before, Mr. Pafilis follows. Now you'll be able to say it, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is really regrettable that we should discuss matters of a self-evident nature with this draft law. It is regrettable that it shows just how far out of place and time we were as a society, as politicians, as citizens! What do I mean? I simply mean that when a government in 2021 comes to legislate that you cannot actually enter the university with a white glue or that the university space has to be protected like any other public space, then something has been wrong for a long time. But since that is the case, we have to change it. And, fortunately, this changes thanks to the determination of the Government of the New Democracy and Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. What does this draft law provide for? Firstly, it provides for the establishment of a minimum basis for introduction, ensuring the academic prerequisite for successful schooling and the early completion of studies. Isn't it logical that someone enters '9' doesn't have the same chance of completing their studies as someone who enters, for example, with '15'? Secondly, it regulates the process of introduction to higher education in two phases, with the aim of introducing more candidates into departments where they really want to study. We don't play "PROD" with computers. We're choosing a real-estate school. Thirdly, we are introducing a curriculum limit in the HEIs, with the aim of improving the rate of graduation and the faster integration of human resources into the labour market, because that is what the actual student wants. Bad news, then, for permanent youth guides! Fourthly, we are establishing the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment, with the controlled entrance, the protection of space and its protection, in order to prevent unlawful action, because'security' means 'freedom' and freedom to express all opinions openly and not to be imposed on labels! Instead, for simple and self-evident remedial moves of a procedural nature, according to the common sense, these arrangements bring together the rabies reaction of those who swear that everything is fine. What exactly is going on here? Where do the reactions come from? From a request to be better? Of course not! There is no such intention! And here inevitably comes the essential and fundamental question: What exactly do we mean by the words 'university' and 'university'? Obviously, another one of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. And it's good to make this separation so the masks fall! For us, universities must give rise to challenges for people to open up innovation paths in society, to be tanks for the recognition of talent and skills, greenhouses for cultures that suit modern societies, to be actors of criticism, but also creative thinking. Very simple and schematic, universities for us must give birth to ideologists and not violators! On the other hand, the Civic Antipolitics stubbornly builds up the legs. He's resisting, he says. In what? The right to keep the mess going? The right to use the university space for anything other than what should be done? I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, your reaction is a pretext. You do, because you want to protect the yearbook of executives who are breast-feeding through these processes of bump and bump. Many of the SYRIZA members who are among us today have emerged from the generation of Article 16, when we have proudly become one with Cuba and North Korea as the countries that said "no" to the establishment of non-state universities. Congratulations, "comrades" - within introductorys, of course - your labors have been rewarded! What you do not understand, of course, is that in this way you do not offer good services to the future of the place. That's not subversive, it's just backwards. And when the lines are blurred, when concepts are altered, then someone must remind them and, if necessary, redefinite them. It is not possible for a person who considers himself progressive to function as a battalion of the Nazi Fascist way of life, as was the case with the dean of the Economic University. The curvature of the reaction implys and ignorance of its risk. Domino is visible. Ignorance leads to populism. People'sism is the new darkness. And that's a direct threat to our democracy, Mr. Philly, not the surveillance of space. So if you want to be ostriched and buffaloed that you are still sticking to a sign of racing obligation in this way, you have a right to do so. Otherwise, let us make the universities the place they have to be. And let me tell you one more thing. I would challenge you to open a debate on what is real education and how it is achieved. To start a real dialogue with the necessary political courage that will lead us to make decisions that make such behaviour self-evident. In this context we must discuss the role of party and student youths, the question of the election or appointment of the rectoral authorities to strengthen the digital structures of universities, facilitate the development of relations with universities abroad for creative imitation of good practice, because lack of education is the ultimate condemnation of our future. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President. And as education, I don't mean the educational process in which one just passes lessons. I mean the true culture of the spirit, the empathy, the inspiringness of healthy collectiveness. So let us stop seeing the university as the precursor of party adulthood and start to understand it as a thermostat of the capacity of the thinking citizen, because it is lacking over time. Obviously, I am voting in favour of the draft law and I congratulate the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Keramemea as a whole for her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr Lazarides. As I said before, I will give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafili and to Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, Mrs Bakada and then to the eighth cycle, and the curtain will be opened by Mr. Theodorikos, who is ready. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u341	We want, above all, to welcome the thousands of students, students and students who have today protested and I assure you that if the issue of the coronary was not the subject, the center of Athens would have closed down. And we want another reason to say hello and address you. Think of a young child in the horror of the coronary - who is present - defying him, taking measures at least as far as we are concerned and going down to the protest! Isn't that what you're thinking? Do you not appreciate that young children in front of this real danger - and we took all the steps - if you see our own powers at least - are coming down to the protest? Why is that? Because he's ordered by the party? Is that why he's coming down? You think so? You're making a big mistake, and I'll answer you. Let me tell you something else. Aren't you embarrassed, rattle on you, say that the protests are spreading the coronary? What kind of humiliation is that? So tell us: The two studies that have been carried out say that the centres for proliferation of the coronary are, firstly, the workplace and, secondly, the mass means of transport. Yes or no? So tell us how I challenged Mitsotakis when he was here in the budget - how many checks have you done in the workplace, in the coaches carrying the workers this morning to Sindo and elsewhere in Athens? How many checks have you done on the subway? Aren't you ashamed to talk? It's one on each other. Why? To make a million and a half and not 1,200,000 subways? And you come and blame the protesters? The new kids? Let the Greek people hear that! I tell you again, Mrs Kerameus, if you have courage - not to say anything else - do not talk to your partners and say how many checks you have done on the basis of the study that has been carried out that the dissemination centre is first and foremost the workplace. How many did you check? What fines did you make? What can you put now, if you're enslaved to them? What are you afraid of? Suppose you'd be afraid to take action for mass tests, masks, those elementary anyways that might be created. And you have the nerve to say that the coronary spreads through the protests. Shame on you! You'll pay for it too expensive. And don't think things are the way they are in polling. So you come now following the tradition of the former in other circumstances much worse, and you bring a bill - it's the third - within a time when students are locked in their homes and - I'll just say it - sauté. Maybe you don't know what it means to be at home and with the cell phone or computer. So you come when the students are away a year from the universities. Well, imagine a cardiologist who's going out tomorrow who hasn't been to the clinic for a year? Let me tell you this. Can you imagine schools - I'm not saying, and others have problems - that have laboratories and don't know what's going to say lab or have them interrupted? Why did you turn it off? Don't you have any money? Don't tell us! What do you think? Really? You have money and you give billions to the business groups! Why don't you open the universities? Why didn't you open the schools all this time? There are thousands of rooms. Even your people have said it. Mr. Theodorikos, you're here. Does the Municipality of Athens have rooms? It does. Do the other municipalities have any? Why don't they use them? Why don't you hire teachers? 'Why...' - says - 'We have no money.' Really? How many billions do you give the business groups every day? So you come to these conditions and what are you doing? But there's no mercy, there's really no mercy, and you're probably living in your towers and not in reality. So what do you say? We change the educational system in the middle of a pandemic with all this! Well, aren't you embarrassed? So much inhumanity, really? How do you treat so hostilely with hatred towards the popular families who have made a programming, who have made financial sacrifices and come now and change everything? You're ruthless. And it makes sense that you're ruthless. You are socially inhuman toward the populace and say the opposite. You're bringing in a tough, very tough class bill. What did you do, though? For one thing, we'll admit you. You rallyed them all. You rallyed students, students, parents, teachers. Steady polls. And you come to the House and tell us - because that is your answer - that polls say that. When the question, for example, is 'do you want security at universities?', what will anyone say? Can he say no? Of course we do. So - you say - 80% wants security, so police! That's how you make politics and it's no accident. Ma'am, you're not listening to me. Don't look at it, Caesars, we're not all. So you say it's a bill of common sense. We agree that it is common sense. The question is who, for what reason and what interests this bill serves. The answer is very simple. Like all your policy and you and the previous ones, it is subject to and serves the interests of those who say it is the driving force of society, that is, capital and business groups, and the education bill serves these interests. Besides, if we make an account, who supports you in this bill? They all support you. First of all, the Association of Greek Industries. What else is the bill? It is the European Union's strategy, which has been followed by all the governments, Mr Phile, and it is now being complemented, that is, a tombstone, just to say it, by New Democracy. What did we have? Diamantopoulou Law? Do you remember that? University of S.A.- Oh, my God! Don't rush! Gabroglou Law! Now you're ticking me and I'm going to say heavy words! I don't want to. Gabroglou Law, 2018. And now, New Democracy, actually, class numbers. It cuts the children of the people's families from being able to study. What does this strategy say? We must be honest here. I read. It says business activity of the HEIs, evaluation of the market - this is education - and you tell us about upgrading and you are not ashamed. So, what is it? Cheap merchandise to sell to industrialists and others? Assessment by market criteria, decoupling a degree from the profession. Isn't that what you do, yes or no? We say that exclusive is the degree in public university and not all the rest. categorisation of diplomas and divisions. So, S.A. university. In other words, the conversion of universities - that is what you want, that promotes your system - to companies' subsidiaries. Are we wrong? We have! Oxford: It's your flag, isn't it? And now with the vaccine the Greek people - I am not addressing you, you have made a choice - must draw conclusions. What's he saying? It is the Oxford vaccine ‘AstraZeneca’. In other words, the University of Oxford, praising some, works for the profits of "AstraZeneca" and not just. He's working murderously because he's blackmailing to raise prices. That's what you want. You want universities in business. These universities you want and these are being promoted today. Because the universities, Mrs. Keramos, may have closed down, but all the programs, financials with companies, etc. Are they alive and open, yes or no? You didn't turn that off. Why is that? There were student suggestions, halls, everything! It is unbelievable that students should ask the students to open the universities with safety measures and you say 'no, we do not open them'. Why? Because that's what we want, because we don't have any money. But you have the money to give it to the big business groups. Secondly, the government reverses and is consciously distorting the consequences of the bill. You all go out here and say that we are interested in the low-school children, as you say - because it is not exactly - economic strata and with courage you say that these changes will help people's families. Well, what do you think we are? Fools or idiots? What do you think the people's families are? Will they not accept, if not today, these consequences tomorrow? So let's take them one - one, see how they can help the people's families. First, import bases. What results will they have? They'll fly out, according to official estimates, twenty to thirty thousand children and close some schools at the same time. These are not questioned by anyone. Yes, sir. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me the dentistry, Mr President, and I will never speak again, as I always do. We ask: Which children, really, in particular - with exceptions, of course, why are there always exceptions - to be thrown out of this measure? The children of the people's families, who are unable to pay very much, as others do from primary school, from high school, yes or no? In fact, we are talking about a very huge financial burden. They can't pay them. They'll go to a mass school or sometimes they won't go at all. So, beyond that, I'm saying, with the exceptions, you don't fly out with the bases? What are you telling us now that you are supporting the children of popular families? Answer: But, well, that's not possible! It is unbelievable to go through '2', '3' and '4' at universities. Well, aren't you ashamed? Get your head down and don't talk, because '2', '3' and '4' are the results of the school you've all done together. Because school has turned into a school, but on a arena. Well, do you have the nerve to talk to the Greek people that children and many, in fact with '2', '3' and '4' from school and you don't say 'what did we do, where we blamed, so that the school would be like'? What are you talking about? It hurts head, it cuts head. That's what you're doing. Who are you gonna cut? And let me tell you another dimension. And who tells you all that a child's misfortune or, anyway, the possibilities he had in his life, the problems he had from his family, which he doesn't have with the big income classes, because they send them to Harvard, they send them to Oxford, they send them elsewhere, and they come to us here and sit in the neck, yapids, killers, murderers. I mean, not that they kill people, but they're murderers of the children's and the economy, who count numbers and nothing else. So we're telling you this now. Instead of going out and apologise - where there is no honesty, there is classic tough reason - that we have had such a school that brings children with two "two" and "three" who go to university, what are you saying now? Everybody's cut. I'm cutting you off the chance to go fight and study. This is your tough class policy. And now let the tricks, Mrs. Kerameau, I don't mean you, I mean the government, that they cut off from the others who want these schools and they go. Okay, really? Are you kidding us? One who writes better will go to this school. They don't cut those who have chosen some schools. These are alchemys to unleash the working class children from the university. You said cynically and that is positive in that they are sincere: What? Everyone's going to college? Of course not everyone's going to college. It's very natural not to go to college. But if not everyone goes to university, that means redesigning the economy, which can send them, that is, he wants another thing, he wants socialism. I've been swinging with a New Democracy guy who said that he wants a central design. Then why is it in capitalism? Capitalism is the market jungle. It's them. So you now want to cut as much as possible - I will say below - of those who want to study. You take the right and dream away - and you will pay it sooner or later and very hard - children who, for various reasons, cannot go through school and do not have the financial capacity of schools to acquire such knowledge that can enter university. Second, the two computers? What perverted mind invented these? Who was the father or mother - tell us the name of this twisted computer? You say 10% of the first - and indeed - the second - become a magician. That's the story, playing krone - letters, "JOOKER" that I'm going to end up with. And what's worse, your nerve really? What do you think? That with this we will give the candidates the opportunity to enter the school they want. But are you serious? Are you all right? When you give him 10% to go to medicine, I say various areas now that he can't go, where are you taking him next? Which school he likes will choose with this system? Not to say we don't have any proposals, so what do we say? Ensure a rating. He'll give three lessons, four, he'll make up two and give back next year. That's how he's going to go to the school he wants, if he can in these circumstances. Why don't you accept that? Because you want to cut them out. But you're literally insurmountable. You hate - everyone understands what I call it - the children of the working class, the populace. Not only do you beat the right to enter the university, but then you come with a second "Axe" for those who are studying, a hard class measure. Really, I'm asking you-- to your god, they say-- don't you know that 40% of students work? Sort of, maybe more. Do you know what it means to work and be a student? I don't want to say any more personal experiences. Because some - and I don't want to say names, because there are exceptions - they don't know what work is and study, they don't know what it means to break your bones in the building and go out and run tests and be obliged to read, or be a waiter, or here or there. Don't you know that? And what are you telling them? 4+2. Really? 4+2. So tell us what's going to change with 2, won't they keep working? Why are they working on hobbies? Why, to go to D.A.P.D. parties? I'll tell you after that, I'll have it as a surprise. Why are they working? Because their families can't handle it. Why are they leaving and not going to universities of children spending on islands and other universities? Because their families cannot support the rent and the expenses of a student. That's why they do it. And you, unscrupulously unscrupulous, instead of appreciating these children who go and work, why have you condemned their parents to poverty and tolerance, what are you telling them? Six or seven years or eight and then you're fired, you lose the right. Aren't you embarrassed? What are you going to say, really, what are you going to say to a working student who works to get them out of here and tell him 'two years and you're done'? Why, in two years, what will change? Will he be rich? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Leave me, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u342	Yeah, we're running out of time, and we're not gonna hear the surprise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u343	Will he be rich in two years? No, you're just gonna throw him out of the university in the name of the eternal students. Let's sit down and see, before and now, how much that percentage is. Why, what are you afraid of? Don't international players, that is, international capitalism, those who want a university at the service of the multinationals? These are what you are serving, and that's why you're taking these measures. And can I tell you one more thing? You say 'to bring us meanings'. Madam Tyres, please have a sincere debate - I do not mean personally, as a government, to be clear - do a word with the PRS, which, in addition to others that he has done in the past, today what is he doing? He's an agent to find a job in cafeterias and elsewhere in exchange for voting for DPRK. Go check it out. "Black" everyone works. Well, where do you live? So you're all right now? Are you out of reality? They go and work in cafeterias, in whatever business they find, black, without insurance. And 'uninsurance' is due to the fact that microprofessionals cannot respond to the economic situation they have. So what's the matter? Why don't you give them financial support if they work and they can't get through? Why, you don't have any money? Where do you give them? Secondly, why don't you build a home and an infrastructure, what students ask, so they don't pay rent? Why, why, there's too much why. You don't want them. You don't want them and I'll tell them to write. It's class hate after all. You don't want the working class kids and others, despite what you say, getting into universities and becoming scientists. And you know, the age of capitalism, of our generation, which had been opened, because it needed massive scientists, has now begun and close. He's got the elite given. Harvard, Lancaster, I don't know what all the rest of it is. There's no question, they've got wealth, they're being sent wherever they want. She's not going here, she's going to any country they want, they're paying tuition fees and so on. Whenever they come ready and even ready and ideologically, Killers I would say, numbers and not people. For others, here is the fate you hold. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u344	The surprise, don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u345	I'm going to the second place. But before I told SYRIZA, I wanted to say that. Do you accept Bologna or not? You accept it. Do you accept or not accept the line of the European Union? Did you or didn't you? Who started the grade equivalency? Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u346	Bologna's not, it's not, it's not. Honest dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u347	Listen, Mr. Friend, whatever you want to say. You haven't overthrown anything over the last four years. You were committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Phil, you've said that, don't go on. Mr. Paphie, no dialogue, please. It was all right. It was all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u349	Can I tell you something? Can you not apply European Union directives?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u350	We can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u351	One tell us you didn't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u352	No dialogue, Mr. Paphie, and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u353	Bologna was not implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u354	None. Two and a pharmacopoeia: Police in the universities. What's happened I don't know if it's ever happened before to introduce a bill from the Ministry of Education, who? The Minister of Education and the Minister of Civil Protection. Hey, I'm gonna suggest you get the Secretary of Defense, too, get the army in the way. What's this? How do you accept that? But what's the point? The point is, you really want to break the student movement. Not all of these 'peripheral' elements, as you say, do what they do and which, if they were not played by the channels, which are at your service, would have been partially stopped. It's what they power us out here with posters and what the Undersecretary did. So let's go. Crime, drug trafficking, smuggling. Who stops the Greek police hitting them? Does he have the ability, yes or no? Does he have institutional capacity to do so? Of course it does. Outside the universities and inside if necessary. Why doesn't he, really, so long after you said that after we abolished and the asylum was free to do so, why? Is he afraid of the various mysteries, who do what they do, and who are unacceptable, and have nothing to do with the student movement? Why don't they do that? Do they have to get inside the universities? I tell you this and remember it: things will get worse with police in the university.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u355	And hang up with this, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u356	Hey, let go of me now, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u357	It's okay. It's okay. They're waiting, colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u358	And I'm telling you something: this whole system of Big Brother, good, what kind of university is that? Are you serious now? With cameras? By collecting evidence? Everything? What's that? Prison? What's that? Polyethnic? It's a multinational. That's what the multinationals want. What happens in the big business. That's what you do now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u359	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u360	You want the floor, don't you? It's okay, you'll take him. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u361	No, for now he's asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u362	No, let go. Why should I tell you something? There are also different voices, give them the opportunity to express themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u363	He's right, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u364	I'll tell you one more thing and I'll be done with it for a minute. When we dominate universities, ladies and gentlemen of all classes, when we had 40%, youth and universities colluded ideologically, for ideas. Now that you dominate, they're struggling for other things. And since we're talking about principles and the upgrading of the university, I have your ideological conflict here at the universities: the DPRK parties. I'll testify to the Minutes for them in history. There you go! Half-mile. ‘Place with 6 euros’. "Power," with dungeon. LPIS - NPV. I'll say it the way it is, it's okay. Here: "Take the babies sick." Half-mile. LPIS - NPV. ‘Summer party’ with semi-nails. ‘Submission of first-years’. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do you see them? You see far away or I'll give you glasses? This is your ideological controversy. The vulgar, the sloppy one, I'd say, who overthrown because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u365	Up the level! In the Minutes all! Rejoice them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u366	And close it, Mr. Palphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u367	It's okay, that's interesting. Are you talking about corruption in universities, when the PSP and PSP - were not one of PASOK here - selling matters? Were they selling them or not? Universities know about it. And you're talking about upgrading the university? You're talking about a smuggling of ideas? Do you know what you want? Only your ideas should be the ones that go to college and not anything subversive. So I'm telling you - and I'm finishing - that rage is gathering. It'll be over. You're out of sight. Temporary... Oh, I have more. Here. Take that, too, 'cause I forgot. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the Minutes a document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mrs. Kerame, take a look at this. Mr. Syrigos, take a look at the other side of the coin. One is the one you said, but take the other, and understand what students you want to make and what people you want to make, since they are topical. So, I'm saying the rage is gathering. Can we tell you something? It won't pass. It won't pass. At least the police and others won't pass. We will block it with all our powers and in terms of mass movement. And know that with what you're doing you dig your pit and that's very positive!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u370	No, no. The Parliamentary Representative. Please very much, Mrs. Papakosta. Tell the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, you are not listening to me. Mr President, please put me in the programme for my dentistry. That's what I mean. You're not listening to me. You don't want to hear. I have the right to dentistry. I don't have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u372	Not today. Tomorrow, by the best. You're right, but tomorrow. End this cycle. Calm down. That's how you and Mrs. Keramea were yelling. Respect a little. We're all colleagues. Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA, who is elected in Achaia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. We heard here and listened to it on the channels 'the protests are stuck'. They are trying - and the Minister too - to blame Alexis Tsipras for taking the risk. Let me ask you something. In Achaia, for example, which is'red' to 'purple', as you say, the elderly at the 'Saint Andreas' Hospital with 50% of the health staff in cases, who is taking over and who is pouring a risk on our backs? I want to ask. Let's take a walk there, let's go to the Prime Minister. And, Mrs. Keramos, take a look at the schools in these'red' areas, such as Achaia, which are full of cases. These were published. They took possession yesterday at a school in Achaea. Take a look at them. What is the main feature of an autocratic... [[Noise in the Chamber]] But don't all talk together, because the speaker can't talk, it can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u374	Please listen to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u375	What is the main feature of an authoritarian government? Shock and awe. It constantly invents provisions to create fear and, above all, surprise in society. It is not understood by the Minister, when she was a Sectoral Educationer, to beat Mr. Gavroglou in an interview because she made changes to the university's admission that would be in place after a year and to say "the changes cannot be made, they want time" and now come within less than two months of the exams, in the midst of a pandemic, and bring such changes that exclude twenty thousand young people from the universities. I want to say one thing, and society has understood it. Do not believe secondly that your children are useless, that for so many years your children have been in large numbers under the base or entered a university with tests that they have not evaluated, etc. Don't believe this second. It's a, not just class policy, not just class policy, it's a neo-colonial policy. Mr Staikoras said so, we have over-education in Greece, when all over Europe is trying to broaden the percentage of the children of the new generation who will study for too many reasons. So there you come and cut off with a neo-colonial perception, which means what? It's a deep categorization of society. Deep categorisation and plausible evidence, which makes a great lie, that they can't study in departments or in schools that they don't want. There were ways of dealing with all this. There could be internal mobility within universities. I'm talking about a clipboard example. No, we're cutting them off now. Some have to go to IKUs. Don't say private colleges, because Mrs. Keramea will tell us that we're advertising them. So the stones are laughing, too, so we don't have to say anything else. And now, of course, this deep categorization comes to serve the Pissaridis project. Anyone who reads it carefully will also understand the categorisation of human resources and the categorisation by place, by region. The regions must stop reproducing the cultural, social, cultural, developmental identity of this place. And he goes along with a lot of other, closed museums and stuff like that. It's not just one thing. Second point of the bill, the incredible lynching of Greek public universities. Unbelievable lynching. It's a disgrace. It is a shame for the Ministers of Education to appear and talk about the Greek university with these words. A scissors made by the State Secretary, took two suggestions from an article by Mr Marangidis. I happen to have read it, that for the students, what it was like for our generation. He didn't read the rest of Mr. Marangidis' article, but why he didn't help him. It didn't help him that our masters, universities, are not deadly, as they want to be presented. He stayed in this to close his eye on the students a little bit. Our universities and those which, according to you, are a man of infraction are in 3% of the best universities in the world. Radio silence. This was never the case for the Greek universities. But why is that? Because they want to make... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will take some more time, Mr President, because I have been cut off by speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u376	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u377	...because we want to bring the Ministry of Civil Protection into the universities at all costs. The Minister speaks of autonomy. "We give the universities autonomy." What level? Postgraduate and foreignlanguage programs, where money falls. But autonomy is not the same as self-employed. Because the self-employed is a European democratic tradition, a constitutional order and includes freedom of movement for persons and ideas. They include these two. These two coexist. What did the democratic world make from early enlightenment to this day? One thing: how to make free citizens, especially free scientists. Do you know what self-sufficient means? It means that university authorities each weight the two major principles: freedom, security. They're weighting them. The university authorities weigh them. And this is a long course for over two hundred years. It's not the police's place to impose repression inside the universities. So Mrs. Keramos relieves the Ministry of Education of funding, of checking whether or not they will get a tuition fee - be careful - and on the other hand, she puts the Ministry of Civil Protection. I want to say one thing in Greek society. Never be afraid of your children being free. Do not think that indictment and fear with the police within universities are the solution to the problems faced by new generations today and which are complex. Mr. Syrigos, in a embarrassing speech for a university professor and for a State Secretary for Education, listed the speeches that students would have made 'hydrocarbons and nationalism'. But what an intervention thing that is! He identified it with violating acts. Watch out here, the slut. Because the aim is to free movement of ideas. At this level, both students and teachers are tested at the same time. And everyone we're teachers know that. The scientist is tested throughout life at this level of free movement of ideas and courage, of boldness...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u378	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u379	...that we see at the pandemic, how much we need. Mr. Syragos, Mr. Palphilis showed them. I had them, too. He beat me to it. But I'll repeat it. Hydrocarbons and nationalism. What if they do five jobs? It's a problem. And you and Mr. Brutsi didn't say the big dispersion in Panteion money. Cover your parties, the teachers. Teachers were lost who wanted to get them to the surface, so that they could finally get to the justice and be justified when the university collapsed, which we both work in, when it was overwhelmed by this dispersal...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u380	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u381	I will show you here, for the Greek citizens to see what is being promoted, Mr. Syrigos. Because they have not told you to say a word, now that it has opened up a great deal of discussion about who promotes sexism, who promotes the abuse of women, who promotes all these things. "Party baby, sick," "Party Vatopedio, Moni" - let's hear them - "the forbidden Party, the IMF" and such. All of this from the D.A.P.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u382	You're closing up with this, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u383	Together, Mr. Syrigos, for copying, because you want disciplinary copies, and that's your whole anti-reform spirit... The copies are not currently available to the Greek universities, to everyone we know, to open a book or to see from each other's glue. Copying is about the education of the university, this mania for paid postgraduate and the work that students have to pay for. These are the major problems of the university...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u384	Please, hang up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u385	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u386	You told me that five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u387	...and they're not solved by such laws, which go back to 1969.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, you have given her five more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u389	What can we do? Let's talk somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u390	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u391	Your home! Here, it's not a classroom for the lady to teach us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u392	Put things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u393	However, Mr. Colleague, it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Philie, right now you're stinging! Let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u395	I reply to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u396	Mr. Philly, please address the Bureau. Don't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u397	Please! We'll go up to the speaker with a hundred and twenty. In order to go up to the speaker a hundred and twenty and to be consistent you must keep up with times. You don't want to respect me? It's okay. But respect those who are waiting to speak, namely, to respect colleagues. Please very much. We are all colleagues in this Chamber. We'll respect each other. And remember, after the verb...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u398	We have already lost one speaker, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u399	You're absolutely right. The State Secretary, Mr Syrigos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, I did not intend to speak. However, because my colleague insulted me for events that happened before I entered the university, namely the irregularities that had occurred in Panteion and what attitude I took at that time, the answer is that I entered the university after these incidents. She, of course, was before. I should like to ask, what attitude did she take when she released the form "How many scumbags do they fit in the Panteion?", where with photos were her expressly mentioned: "Fucking number one, bastard number two, son of a bitch number three". Did he come out to convict those bastards or those people who were talking about bastards? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u402	No, no! Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you spoke 12 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u403	I will only say one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u404	Let's go to the eighth circle. I told you before to respect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Skourlet can take the floor. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Today, there have been too many interventions by people who have nursed the Greek universities and raised a huge issue, the issue of copies. We are not talking, as my colleague quite rightly said before, about copies of a'snapshot'. We are talking about a system, which is in direct contact with the New Democracy's party at universities, the PDD - PDD and a part of the teachers. I am impressed by the fact that neither Mr Syrigos nor the Minister nor anyone else has come out to condemn it. Isn't there any sensitivity to this core of the educational process? Because these issues are at the heart of the educational process. Isn't that why the party of excellence has anything to say? Just hypocrisy! Just a lie! Isn't that infringing issues? Doesn't it cancel the training process itself? Does this not undermine the validity of the Greek universities when they come to the public? That's why you're not saying anything. You are talking about the other things to which you give other dimensions, which exist, and are condemned by everyone, who objectively break down the international authority of our universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u408	Thank you. Mr. Syrgis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. On the subject raised by Mr Skourletis, the issue of copies at universities, in my opinion, is the most widespread criminal offence committed at universities. For the first time, we have a law that tries to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u410	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u411	Look at the disciplinary provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u412	Will you put the police, Minister? You're gonna put the police on? You're gonna put...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u413	He didn't interrupt you, Mr. Skourlet. He didn't interrupt you. Please. Mr. Syragos, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u414	The role of the HEI is given the opportunity to face up to these violations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u415	The DAPH to denounce.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Skourlet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u417	Copying is two kinds, Mr Skourletis: one is copying the exams and the other is the census. Both are extremely widespread. And they're not student orders. It's been a mess, Mr. Skourletis, for this matter for years. So for the first time we have a bill, which is trying to deal with it, to put his finger on the type of suns. The disciplinary body has provisions for this. Read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u419	With cameras? The police?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u420	He's not talking about the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u421	It's not a police matter. It's obviously not a police matter. It is a matter of the university itself to apply these provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, the Minister referred to me before. You can't give me the floor. Mr. President! Wait a minute. The Minister referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u423	But then you'll have to answer. It can't be done. You spoke five more minutes. Please, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Here, Mr Theodorikos, you have the floor and I apologise to Mrs Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u424	Mr. Theodorikos, excuse me two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u425	Please, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u426	Good! All right! Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u427	No, you don't understand anything. Please don't iron me. You spoke five more minutes. Is that the thank you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u428	You see this, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u429	Here, Mr. Theodorikos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, if you are kind enough to close the time, because I have the impossibility of keeping him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u431	Sure. Mr. Theodorikos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u432	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it may seem a common place, but it is absolutely true that without the new generation of Greece we cannot move forward. We must remember that in practice, too, in the exercise of every small and large policy. The government implements its election commitments to society and young people, implements the programme with which it has been elected, and the life and problems that exist do not quarantine and cannot be suspended. In the area of responsibility I had the honour of serving for a year and a half we legislated on the reform of the system of recruitment in the public sector, a reform which primarily concerns young people, and we have ensured that our young people who are abroad can vote, the generation of Brain Drain, from the country in which it is unconditionally and without any exception. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance and role of education in the next day of the country is self-evident. The enormous difficulties that we will encounter immediately after the pandemic in the economy and the need to create and implement a new productive model for the country, which will help it to stand up, make this truth absolutely crucial for the next period. Our aim is to upgrade the Greek public university. Our aim is for the public university in Greece to be the way to reduce class inequalities. Our aim is the University of Research, Innovation, Knowledge, Freedom, Unrestricted Movement of All Ideas. Our aim must be to link the university to the labour market. This is the demand of young people themselves today in the demonstration whether they are in their work and action every day to educate themselves on the Internet or in the physical presence. Our aim is for the university to assimilate all changes and technological developments affecting both internal and international competition. Since the debate that took place earlier, I think we all have to keep in mind that we all understand that the model of 'high school - university - and then the same work, the same work for the whole of life' is no longer working. Also, it can under no circumstances be a criterion of success in life if anyone enters the university or not during his eighteen years. These belong to the past. Education is a matter of life and not a parentheses about age from eighteen to twenty-four. There are other ways of success and satisfaction for people. The effort to learn is continuous and is certainly not guaranteed by going to the university exclusively in his eighteen or nineteen years. However, these also require changes in attitudes and practices and perceptions throughout society and, let me say, also in the perceptions of political parties, which are not allowed to say today that they were saying half a century ago. We live in a completely different age. Man must always be creative, constantly seeking education and development and claiming a better level both in his individual life and in collective life. In our understanding, therefore, universities must be autonomous, knowledge, research and progress. That's why our enemy is every lawlessness, every infraction, every crime that may exist in university spaces. And these are not everywhere. I want to highlight it. The problem is not all about Greek universities. It is well known, however, where there is and what impact it has. And all that leads to the depreciation of the university. These lead to dismantling the Greek public university and lack of freedom. I would like to ask a few questions. It is well for everyone: Can a teacher be afraid to teach at university? Is he afraid to invite an expert to speak to the students? Is he afraid to work in his office at the university department? Is it possible for a student not to express himself freely, be obliged to remain silent or have to hurry to leave the university area so that he does not fall into various violations and criminal activities? Don't you know that this is happening at specific universities, in specific departments, in specific building infrastructures? Is the families of workers, farmers, professionals, the average Greek family doing everything that sacrifices money, effort, psychological effort to study their children feel that these children are in danger? Is that progressive? Is that reasonable? Is it democratic? I cannot believe that there is a well-paid citizen or a politician who does not agree that we should do everything in order to ensure that there is complete security at the Greek university. That is why universities, which are certainly self-government units, have been shown in practice to need help from the state and the state and in the field of security, because, unfortunately, it is not the case that the police and must have and must be able to have complete freedom to intervene and to deal with crime in any public space, so also at the university. And what matters is the result and it is the requirement of society to put an end to lawlessness. We are also called upon to respond to this requirement of the Greek people, but - let me say - the young children who are in university. I can tell you with the experience of a man who has taught in the last fifteen years. The new generation wants security and freedom in the university space. That is what we are dealing with with with this initiative: freedom at the university without security for students and teachers can't exist. And let me say that what has been said about junta and dictatorship is a shame. It is shameful to compare the situation in the junta with the present Greek democracy. It is a shame for those who fought against the regime that has put Greece on the plaster for seven years. I would also ask you, even now, to put aside the murders of characters, such as the one previously attempted against Professor and Secretary Angelos Syrigos. We are talking about the revulsion of a well-known speech, which is quite clear that it is simply a historical reference. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues that we are discussing today are self-evident changes. The need for reform in education is very important. The reforms must be carried out with the greatest possible consensus. The country cannot lose any more chances. We could already be a regional and even global educational and research centre, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Officerial Representation, you closed the way to private universities with your idealism, preventing this topic from being included in the constitutional review, leaving other countries in the region to play this role, such as our brothers and sisters in Cyprus, where they emigrate massive Greek teachers and students from the homeland. I repeat that education is the only safe way to throw or even reduce the class walls. It is a means of individual and collective progress. It's not a need, it's a choice of every thoughtful man, every man who cares about himself and society. "My child writes to have a better life," our parents used to say to us all, and they certainly didn't only mean a easier life with more money. They meant a better life, with an emphasis on quality, the dream of a better society, which only education can create and support. This message is well known by the new generation following these discussions. She knows what I want and what she needs and she expects us to do our job by opening the way to her own future. Let me conclude by saying that at the very difficult time that the country is going through, because it is very difficult for us to have more dialogue, unity and solidarity in order to be able to get out of the test we are going through with the smallest possible losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, too. Before giving Mrs Bakadima the floor, the parliamentary representative from Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u434	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll talk a little. I would like to inform you, Mr President, as well as the Greek Parliament, that ten minutes ago the Vice-President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Sophia Sakorafa, was savagely beaten by the Greek Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u435	I imagine we're all condemning it. Not to ask one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u436	Outside the GAAP.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u437	Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u438	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would therefore like to ask, since my colleague, Mr Gregoriadis, has not been able to do so, to ask and ask for the parliamentary representatives of the other parties to be put before what happened a moment ago, because I am not sure that we are all condemning it. Is this a picture of the Vice-President of the Greek Parliament elected party of Mera25 - whoever the Vice-President was, whoever the Member of Parliament was - to be pre-collapsed to the limits of beating, because he went forth to protect children from wood, from MATs and tear gas? If the answer is to fall with the shields on her, I honestly don't want to know how they're gonna behave and how they act - we see it every day - to the children when they're focused to protest. This is how you want to modernise Greek education, this is how you want to modernise the Greek state. Take your time if you want. We expect to learn from the same more detail, because it is still too upset. We are therefore waiting not only for us, the entire Greek people are waiting to hear us condemn this self-evident. We have reached this point in Greece. At this point you have brought the country, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, to condemn the self-evident. Violence is self-evident that it must be condemned. Therefore, not only should ICPs and ETSs be done for the bodies of order, which only do not apply, we must discuss seriously the situation in which you have brought democracy to our country. You bring a bill that will "modernise", "protect", "protect" academic freedom and try with anti-constitutional and anti-democratic practices and provisions essentially to put the "floorboard" of academic freedom rather than just. Because what we are talking about is not just the framework of universities. You want to put any democratic expression on the wall in that country. No citizen can have violence. It is not possible, however, for the Members, when they make themselves known, to become objects and to be subject to violence. I repeat that no citizen should be beaten by the police, that is not the role of the police. We were just out of Parliament with Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis and in front of our eyes we saw not only beaten students, but even photoreporters trying to do their job. We have asked the Bureau to return to the Chamber to tell us exactly what happened. You saw he never came back. If this is not a burden on the parliamentary procedure itself and a heated smuggling of the Members and representatives of all the parties, I honestly cannot understand what it is. But now we're going to the bill. You bring a series of provisions that dominate the creation of a body within the Greek Police that will come to take over, as you say, to safeguard academic freedom. Does it make any impression to you that the police themselves, all their associations, except the Union of Special Guards, have condemned it? Do you think you're going to convince anyone when you're still saying that you're interested in academic freedom and education in our country? Do you convince anyone when we've seen not only a series of incidents of arbitrary and police violence, but also the way you've handled the pandemic all this time in the light of education? When we've seen educational gaps, when we've seen children unable, why can't they just follow their course when we've seen gaps in basic educational units stay uncovered? For example, you will allow me to mention some examples that come from my region, Piraeus II, but also from Piraeus. Fifteen organic gaps in the primary education of Piraeus, covered by teachers of the whole day and of strengthening teaching, creating corresponding gaps in them. At the 6th Keratsini High School eight empty hours of philosopher and eighteen empty hours of French language philosopher. You'll tell me that after we discuss a draft law on higher education, university security, because I refer to secondary school. Because your course so far, not only in education, but in general, is that the way you choose to govern and legislate, is all communication. Our universities, although they do not have the funding they should have, and although problems and pathogens are many, they manage to give high-level students, and since yesterday we hear condolence MPs squeeze the finger on the children because they want to study, saying that not everyone can study. This thought fully reflects your ideology. You think not everyone has the right to education. Everyone has a right to want to study and want to improve their lives. You want to keep them as a poor workforce of the oligarchs, which you are "slaping on the back". Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - and I am closing down with this - we have, for the most part, a bill that finds unconstitutional provisions, which it has found in the whole of society. For the most part, you are baptizing the “meat fish”. For once, legislate is supposed to be for the good of the citizens, and your sole goal is to succumb to every voice that runs counter to your own knots. It is not the creation of common sense that the bill we are discussing today, as you said, Minister. It is a monstrous anti-constitutionalism that turns the country back many years, a bill that will be abolished on the road. Remember the time and the day I tell you. There'll be in the Minutes. You and your resignation will go to history as the Minister and the party that has found the whole of society, because society, students, all democratic citizens will overthrow your policy, overthrow the anomalies you bring as legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mrs Bakadima, for keeping time. Mr. Gregoryade, is Mrs. Sakorafa okay in her health?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President, for your interest. She's fine, but she's very upset. He's got wounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u441	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u442	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u443	Mr Skourletis has the floor, and then the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis, has the floor for the amendment. Mr. Skourletis, do you want to hear the Minister first?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u444	No, no. I barely wish to give the Minister a chance to put him on the subject I am going to raise. We have just heard a complaint and I think that everyone here, regardless of political position, should express not only their support but also their discomfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u445	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u446	A few hours ago, the issue of unnecessarily conceived and prevalenced photojournalists was raised at the time of their work. We had requested and agreed with the Bureau - the President-in-Office at that time - that the Minister for Civil Protection be called upon to give us some explanation. Unfortunately, things are not going well, and I am not only referring to about a hundred unreasonable incubations. It looks like this is all in the GDR right now. I am also referring to photos that are currently on the Internet showing people from the action group with their engines to have fallen on a protester. This is another case, George Floyd. The responsibilities are enormous. Let the Minister of Citizen Protection come here and give an explanation. We can't go on like nothing's going on. People are at risk because it has unleashed terrorist bodies in Athens. They terrorize society and are the political leader of this operation. I'm presenting this photo to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u448	I did not just say thank you, Mr President. There is a major issue, and I want all parties and the government to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u449	Sure. If anyone wants to speak to record that he condemns it, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, it goes without saying that we strongly condemn all tons of violence wherever it comes from. We did it, we do it, and we'll do it for life. We're not talking about it. In particular, for Mrs Sakorafa, who is truly a person of "two" from the field of sport, regardless of ideological aspects or anything else. It is a man of "two" really within Parliament, but also in the field of sport and politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u453	To God. He's a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u454	And we repeat what we have said in all cases where colleagues have happened to be victims of violence. Violence has no color, no ideology, nothing. Stay away from us. We strongly condemn the violence from wherever it comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u455	I repeat that if you want to record for the parties, you will be glad to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, I would like to speak. That's not the point. It's not just a matter of statement. We raise a matter for the adjournment of the meeting until the Minister has arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u457	You've heard, Mr. Skourlet. I think he's watching and he heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u458	You heard me. I raise a point of order for the House to decide to stop its work at the moment until adequate explanations are given. Find out what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u459	Let me see if it comes from the Rules of Procedure, to be honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u460	Everything comes up. It's a dominant body.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u461	Let me see it and we'll see what happens. For the moment, I will give the floor to Mr Plakatakis for Amendment No 738/58.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, I shall refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. I have said many times from this Step forward that public maritime education is the cornerstone of the Greek shipping and is directly intertwined with maintaining its leading role in the global maritime track. For us, public maritime education is an uninterrupted process of quality education for young seafarers in order to be able to travel at a time when shipping is changing. There are significant challenges. Moreover, they should be able to cope with the widest competition from international shipping. I would also like to stress that in this educational process retired masters and engineers, these specialised managers offer many important services while combining theoretical teaching and the real situation that our seafarers will face in practice. Therefore, their experience and expertise are data and features of public maritime education. I would like to note that well-known naval teachers have about 40% of all teachers. In no case can we imagine that we will lose them, because not only will they cause a significant break in the functioning of the schools, but they will be a major problem in the proper functioning of the schools, particularly the public seafarer academies on the islands. You can understand what will be the problem of completing the studies of masters and engineers. The amendment regulates the pension scheme of seafarers. We therefore ensure the proper functioning of the academies of commercial seafarers. We are currently in a process of recruiting permanent staff and teachers at schools. What I want to say today in plenary is that we are already at the last stage of drawing up a comprehensive framework for public maritime education. It is a framework that will take the form of legislation so that, at last, we can tackle the modernisation of public maritime education which we all know is a key element in strengthening the competitiveness of Greek shipping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u463	Thank you too, Mr. Placiotakis. Mr. Skourletis, your request has been heard, transferred, but there is no interruption of the meeting. We'll go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u464	Is it for the ministers to say anything or is there any conscience in it or are we not interested in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Dimitris Charitou has the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Rhodope. Please keep time to go by 12 o'clock at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u466	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of the Government, you were due after the complaints heard here in this House to invite the Minister of Civil Protection to come now. He has already caused with his speech, with the pogrom that has manifested itself against the protesters and also the Vice-President of the Parliament. The climate of police rule is currently in town. I would also like you, Mr President, and the majority also to take it seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, for decades the universities have been a key factor in the development of the Greek economy. They have been a lever for the transformation of our society. It was and it was for the Greek family the vision, the only prospect of a better future for her children. The bold entrance of tens of thousands of young people from every corner of the region glorified the universities. Creation after the repopulation of regional universities, such as the Democritus University, prompted new cognitive fields, fresh ideas, the development of research, so that they could now hold these high positions in the international ranking. The need to further develop them with their staffing and financial support is of key importance to our country, especially today. While you are aware that the aim of the European Union is for 40% of its citizens to have university education, you, Minister, within the life of the pandemic with universities closed and with Parliament being restricted, to what needs, do you want to answer with the arrangements you enter? Not at all! You are establishing the minimum import base for universities, when you are aware that the number of importers will be reduced by one third. Twenty-five thousand young people will stay out of universities, seventy-five thousand students admitted last year. In fact, you claim with arrogance doses that is only the beginning, because with the new academic map you are preparing, almost a third of today's university departments will find it difficult to exist. Do you understand what you're going to do? You are not listening to us, and so are the other parties in the Opposition. At least listen, Minister, what the Republican authorities and the other training bodies tell you in a well-documented way. Listen, please, what the senate of a regional university of Democritus says to you: "The new system of introduction to higher education is causing serious concern in Democritus, as its implementation...", listen to it, Minister, "... threatens the sustainability of its parts". How much clearer do you want to hear? Local societies in Thrace, Minister, awaited the establishment of the new departments decided by the Senate and the government of SYRIZA had chosen. Now we understand why for over a year and a half you have been unrealistic. You are not planning to strengthen, but to amputate, as it seems, universities, as it is, of course, the Democritus University. And it is to be wondered and they are finally entitled to know the Greek families: on what academic criteria have you established this system of introduction to the HEIs, which will exclude twenty-five thousand young people, most of whom will be one of the weaker economic strata? I listened very carefully to you a moment ago, but you did not tell us about the criteria or what study you are going through and what the prospect is, anyway, of giving these children. Unfortunately, the answer is hard. You drive the new generation as a new clientele in a degraded knowledge industry, that of private colleges that are nowadays gigantic to do business with the backs of a government willing to serve them. It's not, after all, the first time. You come back to the crime scene, when you recently legislated recognizing as equal qualifications diplomas of doubtful quality of private colleges with those of public universities. But tell all the truth that parents can hear it, that only those who have full of wallets, those who can bear the financial cost will be able to study their children, while the majority of twenty-five thousand young people who are excluded from the universities will be taken to "Kayadas". We have heard and heard here documented positions put forward by educational bodies about the need to upgrade the education provided in high school to address the problems of admission to the HEIs. Make sure you don't listen, insist on the import base. What don't you understand? That with your arrangements, due to the difficulty of introducing children into universities, will the student leak increase? That the number of graduates will be drastically reduced? That transgression will be even more gigantic? That parents will be forced to put their hand even deeper in the pocket? You know everything very well, but it doesn't sweat your ears. It is your conscious choice to broaden the inequalities between the children of the people's families, the middle classes on the one hand and the elites on the other, who have the financial comfort of studying their children in private colleges and if necessary abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, only questions also arise in regulating student deletion on a degree that has not been able to complete their studies in four plus two years. Instead of taking care to deal with the financial or other difficulties they have, you are facing them with incredible cruelty, when you know that they do not cost anything in the state. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I left last, ladies and gentlemen, not because it is of less importance, the issue of setting up a university police force with special guards directly under the Ministry of Civil Protection. You have been told that this measure will not provide any solution. On the contrary, it will create additional problems in universities. Police associations, too, fully disagree with the measure. You are the only ones who insist, in fact by wrestling them and extorting the institutions, as I have heard before the Minister for Civil Protection. While you know the subway will stay on paper, you insist, gentlemen. You insist on why your objective is another, the confiscation of universities as areas of lawlessness and criminal activity. A whole shameful photography report you presented to us, Minister, just like you, Minister. Congratulations! Only in this way you are actually undermining the authority of universities and the work that the university community produces. Mr President, I am voting against the bill with certainty that this, like other reactionary bills, will be left on paper and will not be long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the consistency in time. And until the Step is settled, I'd like to let you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u468	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u469	I know, Mr. Skourlet. I'm watching from the inner circuit. The Ministry has been informed and will shortly be informed by the Ministry responsible, in particular, by the State Secretary, Mr. Economou. I think you got the answer. And now I want to invite the New Democracy MP, Mr Spanaki, on the request - and I say this because we are very back to the speakers, and tomorrow the day will be very full because of the speeches made by many Heads of State - to be kept in the seven-minute period. I'll interrupt. I'm explaining so I don't get wrong. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u470	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the Greek university, about the protection of the university environment and of academic freedom. With today's bill, the New Democracy Government is going on with a real reform in the field of higher education, introducing innovative regulations that currently meet the needs of young people and, of course, the labour market. We upgrade and protect the Greek university why? Because he deserves it. It is worth our students, the teachers, the parents, the academic community having great Greek public universities. I shall therefore begin with the provisions on the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment. Article 12 establishes a plan for the security and security of SNEs. Each HEI shall, in accordance with its size and needs, implement all necessary technical or other measures to ensure safety within its premises and to protect the life and physical integrity of students, teaching staff, administrative and other personnel. Is there someone in this Chamber who disagrees with this proposal? Let me return to this point my proposal, Minister, for the creation of a network of a network of municipal universities. I had also tabled a question on 3 November. I believe that the upgrading of the quality of life of students, teachers and residents around universities, which host universities, also requires close cooperation with local government. An independent security and security unit, which is directly subject to the dean, shall be established by Article 14. Article 16 shall include arrangements for the system of controlled access to universities. It is something that applies to all European universities in America. It is a necessary measure to protect everyone. I now come to the provisions on university protection teams and special guards. University institutions protection teams are recommended and available at the HEIs, managed by Greek police officers and special guards. The setting-up of thirty organic posts of special guards for the staffing of IPOs is a good start. These teams come under the Greek Police and work together for the performance of their duties and their mission, together with the dean, along with the dean and other services and institutions of the institution. The establishment of protection teams will ensure the proper functioning of the university and the removal of those engaged in acts of violence and lawlessness. Mr Tsipras agrees that there is a need for effective university care - we all heard it yesterday - so that academics and students are safe. However, it disagrees with the presence of the police! Good! So what kind of security does Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA propose? Who will take this duty? Let's ask ourselves, let's answer, but honestly! What public university do we want? Do we want a university that promotes knowledge, research, science, critical thinking and at the same time gives the graduates all the necessary tools for a successful professional restoration? Do we want a university in the standards of large foreign institutions, which will be a key option not only for Greeks, but also for candidates from all over the world, or do we want a'magazaki' university of each imaginary revolution, imaginary democrat I would say? Because you consider the blockade and pre-collapsing of guest speakers and official guests to be a democracy! Why? Because it's not our choice? Is that considered a democracy? Is that how you dream, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Greek public university? And since Mr. Skourletis wants to create an artificial climate in this Chamber, does he agree with these pictures and these images at the University of Athens? Do you agree, Mr. Skourletis, with these images?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u471	Mr. Katasafantus agrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u472	So, as far as we are concerned, we know very well, Mr Skourletis, that we have an obligation on our children!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Spankee, don't mention it by name. Develop your own arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u474	Article 34 of this draft law regulates a period of study. It's something that should have happened long ago. No one wants to expel students - not say what we want in Greek society - or prevent them from completing their studies. And you see that this article has a specific flexibility for employees, for students with disabilities. There is also provision for serious health reasons for the student or his relatives, an extension of study time. However, there is also a possibility of stopping studies for up to two years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to vote on this bill. We have an obligation and we know very well that the Greek university can become a superior. It's up to us. It is our choice and, if you wish, we are also committed to Greek society with the popular mandate that we received on 7 July 2019. We have an obligation to create the universities worthy of our children and Greece. It is, however, given in this bill and a choice, which they have not had until now, to complete the computer. So those candidate students could not with the first phase, now they can with the two phases. We introduce the two-stage process and in the second phase, the non-importees have a second chance of entering part of their choice, if there are vacant posts. So it is a bill of opportunity and choice and we must not forget that. That's what our government is doing, ladies and gentlemen. The opportunities we give students are opportunities for a successful entry into the labour market. So these are the opportunities we give with this bill. That is why all Parliament's wings must vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, too, for the exact respect of time. We are moving on with Mr Alexandros Flavouraris from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Although it has been said many times, I would like to say that tonight - all my fellow Members have the list - we will end with the number of a hundred twenty, where I see the name 'Nectarios Santorinios'. I am simply saying this so that some colleagues know how to schedule their time. Here, Mr. Flambury, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u476	Mr President, I should like to begin by saying a few words to the government and especially to the Prime Minister, taking on account of the contradictory and out-of-date way in which pandemic is dealt, particularly the things we have been living in recent years. Please come to your senses, get serious and not play with people's lives and their personal, family, social and economic tranquility. You've only taken responsibility because you chose it. You did not want to reach agreement with all the opposition. Your latest behaviors scare us. They make us insecure. We don't trust your manipulations for the pandemic, but also the economy. Parnitha, Ikaria, Kalamata and other similar phenomena would not be so important if you were to take seriously all the other crucial issues for our country and people. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to some speakers from New Democracy and at the same time to complaints about what is happening with the police outside the security, it is confirmed that even when the people forget what "right", the Right never forgets what "right" means. The second and third generations of your prolongation, of course, inherited a solid social position and a strong wealth. But he also inherited the anti-democratic cell brought by your proliferation. In fact, even in my worst nightmare, I had never imagined I'd be reliving days of the races of "1-1-4". Why else does the restriction of demonstrations, the ruthless pursuit of youth, the arrests of lawyers, the persecution of political leaders, the persecution of MPs for the expression of opinion in Parliament, the redundancies of journalists unlike the government? So the government is assuming that it chose to govern in 2021 with the basic features of the Right of 1960, when the luckiest tried to dream their lives in the country - others were at exiles, others in Germany's vampires - to live in a normality, as we say today. Who was and is the road to a better life today? It's education and entry to university. As a lever of class mobility, education has emerged. A place in the university has always been the target, and then today. Fighting and sacrifice education has emerged over time as a public asset directly linked to democracy. We all know that no struggle for democracy took place without a request for education and no struggle for education was made without democratic political demands. This is the simple historical truth of our country. Greek democracy, therefore, is right to youth. What else do pan-democratic struggles say about 15% for education or "Psalm, Education, Freedom", which has shocked the world, and today's struggles for students and students against the catastrophic bill that we are discussing? And the right government of New Democracy comes with this bill to destroy the dream of society, to overthrow a reality and tradition planted in the souls and hearts of many generations, even fifty years ago. And we are being called today to discuss and I wonder if it is worth it, not because we have nothing to say, but because I fear that the proverb "in the deaf door as much as you want to stink" applies here. Still, we've said and we'll tell you some truths. We will say that the law is unconstitutional, because it is indeed unconstitutional, that Greek universities are classified in an international position, that our scientists, who were forced by the bankruptcy of our country to emigrate, are the best proof of university quality. Ladies and gentlemen, this weekend much has been said by Nikos Philis and other Members of Parliament and have been about the qualitative upgrading of education, about the quality and methods of knowledge provided, research, funding and the increase of technical, scientific and educational staff. However, I would like to ask: has it not proved that this is a dead-end debate, even appalling? For our part arguments and your conservation, authoritarianism and propaganda! And all because your government doesn't believe in young people, it doesn't trust their momentum and gifts, and you ask as power to produce soft workers. You want to finish the many searches and discussions and impose iron discipline. With this bill, the government implements what it has decided for a long time, namely, after the abolition of academic asylum, to go ahead with the imposition of permanent policing at universities, to reduce from twenty-five to thirty-five thousand incoming students, as if the government were not aware that a large majority would be one of the poorest sections of the population. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It simulates five-year university and multi-technical studies with the three-year-olds of colleges. Finally, it slanders the public university, calling it very often as a centre of lawlessness and students as brawls. The New Democracy does not recognise that freedom does not allow police rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u477	Finish, Mr. Flambury. That's your last paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u478	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that this is your Government. It has already been classified in problematic democracies, without democracy in information, with police departments in the universities, banning demonstrations, 'forcibly and with the pain of soul', as the government says through the appropriate minister. A left-wing politician does not have this debate, for a democratic citizen as well. It's forbidden by Petroula, by the dead of the Polytechnic, by Temponera. I am sure that the child of the anonymous Greek who battered in the Greeks with his family for a better tomorrow will claim his life and country. Be sure that the young with the swollen legs who called them bums will do their debt as they always do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, too. Please take care of the Step. To give the floor to Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u480	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u481	Wait a minute, Mr. Skourletis, don't be like this. There's also planning. And then the Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u482	Mr President, the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u483	I'll take care of the procedure. The president's taking care of her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u484	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u485	I have given the floor, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u486	On a point of order, Mr President. You didn't give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u487	What do you mean on a point of order? Here, you have the floor to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u488	Rule 67(2) (d) provides for the possibility of stopping the debate from an incidental point of view which creates new data and can be preceded. So I'm making a point of that. Mr President, first of all, you must give your opinion on this. What I'm saying has been accepted on the substance. That's why I guess Mr. Economou is here. There is no reason, therefore, not to start the information and debate on this subject at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u489	I shall mention what are incidental issues. Incidentally, it is what concerns a matter of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u490	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u491	Okay, your opinion. But the Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u492	Read it all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u493	Read it that you suggest it. Why should I waste time? Come on, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u494	You're not wasting your time, it's your role! Do not lose your role, Mr President, not your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u495	You have a responsibility to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u496	Go to Stepma, Mr. Consola!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u497	Please, I refer to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Brutsi, there is a president. You haven't substituted him yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u498	And you broke the procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u499	Because you've been taken from the Minister of Labour, now you want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u500	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Skourletis, I know you're both educated - all of us - but you need to read it. He says: "Decision on the main issue." The main issue is the bill. Read it, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u502	Another issue, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u503	And as long as Mr. Consolas speaks, see the paragraph again. The Bureau of Parliament has acted since the first time you raised the request. Notify the Ministry, and the Ministry responsible is here. And that should be praised. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Economou's presence here, Mr Skourletis, clearly indicates the intention of both the Greek Parliament and the Government to listen to any arguments. Therefore, we will all be here to hear his position and answer yours and the position of Officership. However, Mr President, what has been called for by the Minister in her position is self-evident, that is, convergence on important issues as the current Treaty of Greek society imposes. However, even now in this Chamber it seems that it is difficult to agree and to cooperate on matters of great importance and they are calling for solutions today. Mrs Papacosta, the rapporteur, but also Mr Brutsis and the Minister have thoroughly documented why the bill is extremely timely and important. And it is not my intention to use my speech and to throw water into the mill of a confrontation fuelled by stereotypes and stereotypes of the past, even when the country is looking for a way forward. And that is - I imagine - the stakes of all of us. This is the case at the time when the Greek society has made its own choices, the conscious choice of maturity and rationality and requires the political system to follow this choice in practice, now. The Ministry of Education has brought in a bill dealing with existing problems in the field of higher education. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, just read, hear more experience in the field of universities. Those who try not to see reality probably underestimate the intelligence not of our own, but of our own citizens, students and academics and, in general, the academic community. Those who react to controlled access to university spaces, protection and security of university institutions, students themselves and teachers, I honestly wonder if they want to continue this present regime of decency and lawlessness. I don't think there's any of us here. However, what we have to make clear is that universities are areas of knowledge, research, ideas and not violence and lawlessness. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very clear today: these actions do not have political characteristics. They are acts against legality, human dignity and public property and I am glad that Members from the parties, almost throughout the political spectrum, have been placed in the same way. I'm very pleased about that. These acts are the subject of common criminal law and we need to recognise it. I do not need to remind myself of incidents such as the attack by the dean of the Economic University. The Minister showed them very enthusiasticly, as did the honourable Member, Mr Spanakis. The attack by the current State Secretary for Education at the University, at his workplace, suggests that this problem is pathetic. It is worth reminding us also that the Committee on Paratroopoly, set up by the previous government, in its conclusion, published in 2018, recognises the seriousness of this problem, violence and violations at universities. The same conclusion - and I must point out this - recognises the need for a review of the status of university countries, which is an indirect, if not immediate, recognition that the framework that has been in place so far has been ineffective. There is currently a framework of controlled and electronic access to university spaces, as it applies to universities at European and international level. You have also seen the relevant evidence from the Minister. The creation of university protection teams with police personnel and special training seems to be the case today, not for university sites with zero cases, such as the Aegean University, which I experience every day, or other regional universities, but universities that we all know which areas these are and which areas are the areas of lawlessness and illegality, where there is a problem. We all know who they are, vulnerable areas. For these areas, the co-operating security companies have not been possible in the past, but it is not possible today to deal with this problem on their own, with incomplete education. And this is a assumption that we have experienced and seen not only from the media, but from the testimony of companies themselves and workers in these companies. Mr President, let me briefly address another issue of definition relating to the bill, the minimum basis for introduction to higher education institutions. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a reality. It is true that this year we have experienced all friends, relatives, known to be introduced into universities with an import unit, having written '2', '3' or even worse. They have only written their name and passed to a higher education institution. It's right to regulate, Minister, that you bring to the bill. We must, however, tackle this problem in full. Usually these low bases are recorded in regional universities, in remote areas, in regional universities throughout the territory. Why are bases and demand low? We have to give an answer. Unfortunately, it is because families and candidates choose on geographical criteria rather than on academic features and criteria, and that needs to be changed. I believe that in a later institutional intervention by the Ministry of Education a policy and policies could be included in the upgrading of regional universities, policies such as strengthening their infrastructure and student housing, the development of new curricula, their interconnection with local society, their conversion into development levers of regional development. Mr President, let me report as the Committee of the Regions. It would be useful and I would ask the Ministry of Education's leadership for a meeting that could take place for a specific thematic field in relation to the upgrading of regional universities. To put forward proposals, to work together and move forward to upgrade them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me a minute, Mr President. On the occasion of this report, I would like to thank the Minister publicly, who has signed a joint ministerial decision recommending a real upgrading that the market itself wants, but also the Greek society for tourism education in the country, and is related to regional universities, is related to structures for regional development and tourism education, to the change of the antiquated programme of study at higher schools in tourist professions, to the establishment of a four-year course, which has put an end to a distortion and an inequality of decades, but also to other profound and substantial changes and structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u505	And that is what you have done, Mr Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u506	I shall conclude with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u507	Please warmly. Close with your last proposal only.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, I should like to refer to the question of university study time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u509	Not on a new issue, Mr. Consola. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u510	It is in the right direction to regulate the Ministry, but also to see cases, such as workers Greek students abroad, for example. To give an opportunity to them, perhaps to extend their time of study. I call on the House in this direction to have consensus and convergence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u511	Thank you. I would ask the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Economou, at this point - I do not know whether he wants the Step or his position - to make the information requested from colleagues. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u512	Five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u513	Five minutes and if you need any more, here we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u514	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this opportunity to restore the truth to Parliament on the subject raised by the police against Vice-President Sakorafa outside the Directorate-General for Police at Attica, since, unfortunately, the misinformation is moving at such speed, which often creates false impressions within Parliament as well. The truth is this. Outside the Police Directorate of Attica there were about a hundred people in support of some fifty two who were indicted after the incidents that took place at noon today outside the Propylaea - there were some in the Constitution - by a group that attacked the police and particularly the "WITH" Group, which is the new force that we are putting forward in the context of the new doctrine of mild presence before the gatherings. As you know, this power is without clubs. After the first confrontation that existed here and since a rock storm was struck against police forces and some molotovs, they then moved towards the University and the Propylaea, where thirty molotovs were launched there, direct shooting flares against police forces, which discreetly followed a large number of rocks and at the same time attempted to break the marbles there. With very high coldness, the forces acted wisely and eventually joined the Police Directorate-General fifty-two. These fifty-two people were always being examined - and the prosecutor responsible informed - and this time they gathered out of the Attica General Police Directorate about the hundreds of them in support of them. There was a parliamentary, I would say, presence on the part of Mera25 there. An effort was made and contacted by General Police Director at Attica with the MPs who were on the side of Mera25 and who were informed by the Chief Police Director at Attica that once the process of examining the defendants has been completed, they will be informed in detail what exactly will be done with the fifty two incumbents. They expressed the request to stay on the sidewalk where they were, and not to close Alexandra Avenue, as our other fellow citizens too would like to move and go to work and there would be no serious blockage on Alexandra Avenue. There had been extended before forces of the “WHO”, which, I repeat, bear no shields, bear no gobs, bear absolutely nothing. They were ahead to point out that there should not be those gathered there blocking Alexandra Avenue and creating a huge problem in terms of the movement of the rest of our fellow citizens. In this effort, which came down to exclude Alexandra Avenue, there was an attempt to extort the group of the group, namely the 'WHO', which, I repeat, does not bear any bells, bear no shields. Members of the "WHO" were attacked by the crowd. We have three injured policemen at the moment from the "WHO", unarmed, who were transferred to the "401" Military Hospital, and during this attempt to retire, Mrs Sakorafa was also there. Evidently, she was repelled to go up, without police officers being aware of her presence, as the protesters also wore the mask. But the effort was to get on the sidewalk. No other defuse with shields, with clubs, using chemicals, anything. In fact, there was contact by Mrs Sakorafa with the competent officers of the Directorate-General for Police at Attica, as I said before. It is therefore disgusting that it has been transferred to Parliament in the most emphatic way, and I would also like to point out that there is video material. As you know, cameras are also operating now, based on the new law that we have passed and the presidential decree that has come into force, and all this is now available for the investigation, and the prosecutor and anyone else who wants to denounce anything. There is absolute respect for the Greek Police in the Constitution and the right of assembly. We see that the previous times that have taken place the pan-educational rallys and the gatherings have all gone very smoothly. Today, unfortunately, some of these groups wanted to create attacks, incidents, blackmail these demonstrations in order to form a false scene of police occupation, violence, repression and so on. And I would ask, frankly, that we be a little careful in these rumours, which, without being totally first processed, are so easily transferred to Parliament. Extreme extremists should not be encouraged, just to benefit temporarily from some impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Minister. They will only take the floor, as they are entitled to, the parliamentary representatives who will ask for it. No one else is predicted. Mr. Skourletis, here, you have the floor from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u516	To make it easier for me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u517	No, I can't do this for all of you. If you have difficulty with the mask, yes, very gladly. For three minutes they will take the floor on this particular subject alone. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u518	On this matter alone, which is not only the case of Mrs Sakorafa. I imagine you've been taken by the previous ones who did the president's debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u519	Today's...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u520	Please, Mr President, do not interrupt, let me listen and see that we agree at the end. It is not only about the case of Mrs Sacorafa, but also about the illegal arrest of photojournalists outside the House at the time of their duties. I have not really heard any convincing explanations about Mrs Sacurafa's case, but it is only about making news. So I don't know what the level of pre-compression was, but to a Member of the Greek Parliament, just a hair lifting a police officer, you realize that something is not going well, to say it voluntarily. Mr. Economou, you're a man you know from the police how it works. A few pictures of the action of the new action team were just submitted. With the motorcycles they had fallen over a protester. They are running right now and I recommend that you do it by leaving here, watch the videos on the "Press Project" site and others from Olympus Street in Thessaloniki. Is that why you feel the need to tell us something? Will you finally find out if there's anything out of your command? Can these people finally act without any limit? Or is the moral automobile in this case the political and physical leadership itself? Because you're involved too, because you're now in politics. You recur, not one, anti-constitutional announcements, where you forbid the concentration of more than three people - and you have done so twice in the current year - and you are setting up groups such as the previous one, whose structure - which was abolished by the SYRIZA - I remind you - the way it works - which is why I have invoked you to know things - is that they do not take orders. "Vacit them" is the signal. They don't have any orders back and hit at all. Aggelos Gogoglou, a few months ago, had a member of the Central Committee of SYRIZA, who is over sixty-five, sixty-six - how much is Angel? - It's not a child, it's a similar thing. So it's not always the policemen's fault, you're vaporizing them. You're getting anti-constitutional provisions and orders. Why do you want to make these people haters in society to hate society themselves? Is that how you understand the role of the police? Why has it been extinct since your government took over the country, the term ‘emphasis on an anthropocentric role of the police’? Mrs Gerovas is aware of it, which has gone through this post, what it is difficult to balance between the necessary care, prevention and respect for democracy and the Constitution. There have been murders in this place. And they are responsible for these murders, unfortunately, people who served in the Greek police. The most tragic case was Alexis Gregopoulou. Kume and Kanellelopoulou were another case, if you remember her, Michael Kaltezas, the sixteen-year-old was another case. So we're not talking about ghosts, constructions. I warn you: will you continue on this slippery path of repression?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u521	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u522	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u523	It's no shame when you defend democracy! Shame on you is undermining her! Shame on undermining democracy, trespassing the Constitution and denouncing the Left that has always defended it, on the front line, against what has to do with terrorists, as you did this morning. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Are you threatening us? Until now the Golden Dawn has been threatening in here. The Golden Dawn came out with the vote of the Greek people outside this Chamber. So what do you want to take her place? I would therefore expect such responses to be given, Mr Economou, to be specific, and what you intend to do to investigate these complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, I too would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u526	Mrs. Gerovali, you'll get the floor when we go back to the list. I've been informed, you're right after that. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanassis Pafilis for three minutes with one tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u527	The Minister gave an explanation of all this, based on the police evidence, which says that this was the case in the Propylaea. We don't know and we can't question them. He says there's been arrests. Of course, Minister, the arrests, you know, are not made with flowers, they are made with wood. The arrest of photojournalists that took place here for what reason? Who's gonna pay for this? Why did they catch him? Why would he take pictures? Wasn't that his right? Isn't that his job? So what are you gonna do? And I mean in general, I don't mean specifically. It's not personal, it's what line you're giving the police. Let us accept, I say now for the sake of the debate, that this has happened. What happened to the GAAP? There are pictures. You said it was the team, what they call it, we've confused them now, because the only growing sector in Greece is police and repression. It's this team that's in blue clothes, which is most of the girls. Is that what this is about? I think there are photographs showing shields, that is, that push and prey people. Listen, let's be clear. We, the Members of the Communist Party of Greece, do not think that we are anything other than the people, nor do we have the privilege to beat others, and we are untouched. After all, we have experience, Minister, and you know that well. And speak personally? And if you want, you have the videos. Take them and see them, seven beating me and the other cops call me "Don't hit him, because he's the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC". The problem isn't that they hit us, we're trained. And you know, I've said it before, the wood has two ends, Mr. Brutsi. Don't think they'll beat us ruthlessly and sit high and we'll make the witnesses. It's been over for many years. And you who move your head, Ms. Papakostas, and I appreciate that you have a good reason, it's not possible for the cheeks to get bored, and for us to sit down and plunder us. This thing can't be done. How am I supposed to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u528	You don't know who you're addressing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u529	So who's legal? The guy with the mandarin and he's like a lobster? And illegal is a man who protests, sixty-seven years old? What is it? Dangerous to public policy and security?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u530	You're going to build an army?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u531	Don't interrupt, Mr. Marcopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Marcopoulou, let me tell you. If you feel...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u533	Mr Pafile, go on toward me, not to Mr Markopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u534	He's interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u535	I begged him and he stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u536	If a hair was touched by you, I don't know what would happen. We who lured us, and we had to get beaten up, and we didn't go for a forensics report with bruises in the chest and with broken rib, cracked...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u537	The mask, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u538	Yeah, I'm sorry. What can we do, Mr President? We need to get used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u539	You have to. People are watching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u540	Now, she's a congressman, Vice President of Parliament. When the police arrive to strike where they have orders - good or bad - 'do not hurt them, they are MPs', I tell you that this is not the problem for us. The problem is, he's hitting. When he gets there, it means, not deprivation, it means something else, much deeper. And not everyone hits. The chrysalis is hit mainly by the area you don't want to clear it up. Are the special guards who did what they did before, Mr. Economou, and they came to the police? Have you seen what they did? Shall I say it? Most of what was it? Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u541	Please, please, Mr. Palphie. Please don't be general.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u542	I'm done. I say'most'. How did you get them? On what criteria? With what training? With what orders? Once in school - I know, because a minister told me, I don't want to photograph him - a university student who taught him that the policeman needs to know he's gonna eat wood, not just that he's going to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u543	Finish it. Don't generalize. We're not going to ask a general question here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u544	I'm done. This climate of increased authoritarianism and terrorism, which does not concern everyone, but is about the climate all the government gives, to know that it is dangerous, that it is not going to pass like this, and that you will find it very quickly in front of you. We do not support actions of this type. You know it. Can I talk to you again? Molotov and everything else. However, the answer cannot be "heavy and level all".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u545	Thank you. Mr Grigoriadis has the floor on behalf of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Economou, you know I respect you and I honor you unlimitedly. And that's not what I'm typically saying, as you've treated us with dignity all this nineteen months. You have informed us when you had to prove it today. You left your house, your quiet, your ministry, and you rushed immediately to inform the House. But you will allow me, because you have suggested that the truth has been paraphrased here and you have come to restore it. I repeat that I appreciate you and I think you're misinformed. I spoke five minutes ago just with the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakorafa. He informed me of two things that overthrow your claims. The first is that it has not been repulsed, as you say, but the second one has been prejudiced - and the main one - has been prejudiced by men of the MATs, and in particular by the shields of a luxurious group of men of MATs, who have been calling to crush the ones you described, those who were in agreement with those who were gathered outside the GATS. And as you know, outside of the GAAP, you don't throw molotov, because they're gonna slaughter you. You sit there waiting to see what's going to happen to those who've been arrested. I don't know them and they don't care. The Vice President of Parliament, however, Mr. Economou, was there. When she saw the MATs hiking towards her - she informed me five minutes ago - she started shouting, Mr. Marmatakis, who is a member of our party, just like Mr. Ahtrides, who is a staff of the youth of our party: "Police, MP, stop. Don't attack him." Nevertheless, the group of MATs - and not the group of MATs - fell on it, so, yes, not to hit it in the sense of lifting the club and hitting it, but to salivate it to those who were behind it. And that's dangerous in all respects and health. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a question which concerns all of us in the end in this House and, of course, the ministers who are present and the Prime Minister, if he finds out. I also accept that Mrs Sakova may have been very upset and described it more dramatically, as you say, my Minister, may have been repulsorily repulsated. I ask you directly, but above all the ministers, because they have a different level of power. Do you agree, are you okay with abducting MPs and vice-presidents from police forces? I did not say that he was repulsed, I said that he was roughly beaten. The Minister said he was repulsed. So I ask you: is it okay with you? Can Members be abducted by police? Can Vice-Presidents be repelled? In my opinion, it's not okay and they can't. And since I see that I still have a few seconds, Mr Economou, to inform you - and I do so again, and I know that you are pleased about this briefing - that I came out for the gathering at noon some time around the two - two and a half and I saw the men of MATs do their job, just in front of the House a little bit more right than the Unknown Soldier, arresting some people who had crossed the line and had arrived near the House. So far, I'll be fine with them. A photojournalist, as he has a right and obligation to do, started taking a picture of the arrest scene. They left the man who was already down and kept him both cut off and started whacking with the clubs - in front of me, three hours ago - the photojournalist. The photojournalist fell down, gave me his name. There's in the minutes of the House, I filed it. Then he contacted me as the photojournalist representative who told me he was looking for the president of their union to find me. I inform you to take this into account and make corrective moves, because I believe that you want to make corrective moves, I believe that you are in favour of normality and democracy, I believe deep in me. He informed me that systemically recently they have been pre-intimidated and hitting a photojournalist, and his sense is - I repeat, the president of the photojournalists in Greece - that they are trying to terrorize them so that they can stop photographing police violence. I am not in a position to confirm that. But I'll let you know. Look into it. For the rest, I'm sure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, too, Mr. Gregoriadis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, we are seeing and watching a theatre of absolute hypocrisy and irrationalism. It is well known in all the arms of the House that this faction and this government of the New Democracy are absolutely institutionally committed to democracy and the functioning of Parliament. That's perfectly legible. But what do we hear all this time? First of all, we hear from SYRIZA as an argument that Parliament's operation should be stopped, secondly, to withdraw the bill. Thirdly, today - and this is the most important, Mr President, of all - in their despair and social isolation and misery to try to create artificial polarization. Because that's what this is about. Because the police are doing their job as they should - we have heard the Minister - with respect for the functioning of the institutions and with decency, as should be done. I am sorry, however, to say so, Mr Philly, but you are coming back to your despair at what the characteristics of the polls show. You are coming back and you want to reinstate the "planners of the Constitution". Because your right-wing seat, Mr. Skourlets, was leading...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u549	Look at me, Mr. Brutsi. And don't use names, because they'll ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u550	He said my name, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u551	Please warmly, say your argument without names.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u552	He was one of those protagonists who were protagonists and ministers at the time. Do we forget, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u553	Shame on you! Take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u554	I don't take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u555	Mr. Skourletis, this is not a way of reacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u556	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u557	You can't react like that. Speaking has the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u558	He's a bully! He's going to dare tell me I've done it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u559	Mr. Skourlet, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u560	Political atrocity!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u561	Calm down, because the words you've written over are too heavy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u562	...in class! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u563	Please, you don't have the floor. You don't sound. Please, be decent as you should. Excuse me, if anything affects you, you will ask me for the floor. This is not the way this House is competent. But it seems you've been Minister for many years. EPHREMIDIS (CG). — (GR) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. If you are hurt, you will take the floor. I won't remove your word. Mr. Brutsi, please continue without a name invoking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u564	Of course, Mr President. But you see the SYRIZA's inability to engage in a decent dialogue as it should be. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] For more than ten times has Skourletis spoken and was affected by the fact that I was reinventing Parliament's memory in the period of 2012, 2014, 2015 at the outset, which, in the face of the square, played a leading role in the pre-conflicts against Parliament, the MPs and the functioning of the institutions, while we were resistance to democracy and parliamentary institutions, which we are doing today. And today, we see the side of SYRIZA trying to create an artificial polarization that won't pass. And it will not go away, Mr President, for this simple reason: we are acting democratically and institutionally here. We are bringing a bill that has been passed by consultation, which has the approval of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. And in his weakness, SYRIZA is trying to do the power to block this bill, not because he's interested in the background and at the end of the process for the bill, but trying to capitalise small-party benefits. I wonder, Mr President. In my speech as Parliamentary spokesman and I and the Minister and Mr Syrigos presented a series of challenging violence within the universities, the lotus, the building of sawdusts, the break-up of heads of people who went to hospitals. A word about these people, about this university, who are minority groups today in certain universities, are raping and operating out of control? For this world that was hit, that went to the margin you sent him to the hospital, for this world, you don't have anything to say? Isn't there a need to change these? So, Mr President, what I have to say is that this is absolute hypocrisy. They set up an artificial environment of polarization that does not exist, because quite simply, Greek society and all Greeks are with us. He's with progress. He's with the reforms. They're with the Greece of tomorrow, who's left you on the sidelines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u565	Mr Skourletis, you have the floor for a minute to clarify whether there is anything personal. And please don't open another word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u566	This is about the definition of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u567	The Minister must answer, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u568	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u569	I was pleased to see the man who caused this conversation, and he is Mr Gregoriadis, who was a specific and not a generalist. You will allow me to do the same because I live in this House for too many years, I have experience and I have a crisis. And I would ask that we be on the subject on which the Bureau responded immediately and the Minister came and answered specific issues. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u570	Unfortunately, everything you said, Mr President, was not understood by the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. And today, the political presence of this area is being upgraded by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Unless it's his personal choice. We have never heard continually that the SYRIZA executives are preoccupied and involved in trabourism, whether earlier or now or covering what has been done in universities. Just two words. What he said and personally about me - I do not care, of course, because it matters and who says it - is a verbal trabucism. He's a big liar. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u571	Thank you. The Foreign Minister now has the floor, Mr Economou, to give the answer he wants on the issues that were specifically raised by the parliamentary representatives and only those.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u572	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a clarification of the photojournalist's arrest, given that you have referred here - and you have referred to it, Mr Metten - there was no photojournalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u573	I didn't say about arrest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u574	You clearly did not say so. I'm talking about Mr. Skourletis, who's carrying the picture of the photojournacle. There was no photojournalist arrest. By the time he went to take some photos doing his job, he was asked what exactly he was and what he was doing there. He had no document to prove his quality. He just found his I.D. and said he was a photojournalist, he was immediately released from the space he was in. Because at that time, there were clashes outside the Monument of the Unknown Soldier, just beyond. In fact, I would also like to call on the JRC's Parliamentary Representative, where the WEU, who participated in the process, has kept a very distinct distance from the previous protesters who created the incidents. And, in view of the continuation of the Propylae incident, he left the Constitution and changed his way and way, so that he had no participation and no coverage of these elements, which are systematically attempting - these few people - to disrupt the right to assemble the protesters. That is why I want the most emphatic way to point out again that there was no arrest of a photojournalist. And indeed, through the operational plan announced some time ago on the subject of journalists and on the intact exercise of their function there is a special provision for those who want to announce and know the liaison officer, so that when they are in a position to be able to benefit from the protection imposed by the Greek Police. And I would be grateful to you very sincerely, apart from any political controversy or ideas surrounding certain issues - I can assure you and I think you are aware - to avoid excesses for the staff of the Greek Police, since the vast majority really are close to the Greek citizen, exercises their duties by respecting constitutional requirements with religious reverence. And wherever applicable and there are any complaints, investigations are carried out rapidly, as our legal system imposes. In fact, they have also taken the initiative and all these cases involving possible police violence are controlled by the Citizens' Counselor. It's about time in 2021 that we don't speak junta terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, Minister. We continue the debate on the bill and the very large list of colleagues. I would again remind you of the time spent in seven minutes. I call on Mrs Olga Gerovali, SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr President. I had prepared to say a few things about the bill. I don't feel like I can say it. But I want to say some other things, Mr. Economou. You know very well that I appreciate you and I know that you are a deep knowledge of the operation and activity of the police. I know you have served the Greek police and you know the steps of democratization that the Greek police have taken for many years. This is not always easy, because clearly there are resistances. However, it is important in what direction he is moving and the tone of the actions of the Greek Police. Of course, it has a regulation of operation within the constitutional framework, which, in my assessment, is also very good. I've been in a difficult position too, not a few times. However, you will all remember that when SYRIZA left the government, police officers, special guards came out, and said: "We have been solved." I'm sure, Mr. Economou, you know very well what they meant. No one ever had hands tied up with them, except they were supervised by the way they acted repressively. Of course, there were penalties - but there were penalties - for those who had exercised excessive force proven. However, this was done in depth and with results. That gave a ton to the police, a ton to work within the framework, the rule and the constitution. They later enjoyed when I was not the minister, Mr Toskas and others, because they felt they could do whatever they want. They formulate it in words, they show it in deeds, they say it every morning in the morning barracks, they go out and threateningly towards Greek society and I did not see any energy. Challenges come out. You know, too, very well, Mr. Economou, - you know better than me - that the Greek Police never wanted the special guards. And why didn't he? Because they feel that policemen themselves are at risk while they are trying with unrelated and unskilled. There is a word in the People's Party - I will not use it - which gives it full effect, however. Those people whom you have multiplyed, without training them, you have put them on the road - now you want to put them in the universities - untrained, armed and feel that they are above the law and above the controls. You do not offer work, you do not offer services in the country. I'm not just talking about democracy. I tell Greek citizens too. They don’t suit such behaviors, such as weeping and the bad way in the street. Nowadays, it didn't exist. This has been pressed in ways that you know. As long as there's a will. So I see that this government not only has no will, but it goes on to show more, that is to say, as if it were being struggling with who, for example, would show more. I'm not addressing you. I know you're counted and you know how to do this. So today, what does the Greek police know? That he shouldn't cause. He's avoiding provoking. He doesn't want the Greek police to enter the universities, because he knows it's about eighteen-year-old, 20-year-old children, who most of them aren't invasive, nor are they going to the university to be invasive. There are problems. I've dealt with them, too. Some people were solved, some weren't solved. Many are the difficulties. It's a complex matter. I'm not saying it's simple. However, they are at specific universities - three to four - and with a co-operation and with a debate and with an organised project and the others I think they are being treated. You are more experienced than I am and you know that they can be dealt with in collaboration. The legal framework exists. The police can get in. In my day he entered the Aristotle with the legal steps, that is, the university to call the police because some of the offences were being committed. Usually, these are defects, but a little more, gangs, etc. There are problems, as in Greek society. I mean, would that be very useful - how am I supposed to say it? - a great effort to support the police in the universities today made it by the Ministry and the Greek Police to deal with crime, violation of the neighborhoods, with the difficulties that exist. That's never solved. It is, of course, treated as one or another grade. It's not crime-free. No infringibility is removed. But the citizen can feel the police next to him and beside him really, not against him. So this road has been followed for so many years, so that the Greek citizens can get to feel friendly with the police - in the past, only the firefighting felt friendly - that you abolished everything, you stopped it. Why. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You know what you told us here? That it's not what you think, it's what happened today, it's what happened on the anniversary of the Polytechnic and Gregopoulou. It's videos, photos. The whole of Greece has seen them. Of course you've seen them too. But you are saying that 'it is not what you think it is, it is something else', because 'we are democratic and others', as Mr Bruts said. Say, say something will stay and you may believe it, Mr. Brutsi, and you too. It's not like that. Because you're saying that's not true. Acts prove, not words. But we hear a lot of talk, because we like communication in the New Democracy, I mean, the government, that what we hear will be done. Mitsotakis is capable, smart, intelligent, is Moses. This will be captured. The Greeks don't eat gossip. In order not to abuse time, Mr. Kerameau, I did not talk about the bill. I've got two kids at the university. I wish you yours too, growing up to have such a course. I don't accept you treat them as suspects, and I don't agree to keep an eye on them. I have them raised freely with every parent's difficulty. I don't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u577	Thank you, Mrs Gerovalis, for keeping time. I should like to call, after the Step, Mrs Dionysia - Theodora Agerinopoulou, Member of the New Democracy, to speak. Then in the series is Mr. Sarakiotis, Mr. Chrysomalis, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Kotsos and Mrs. Mrs. Avgerinopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u578	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill of importance for higher education, as it makes a decisive contribution to upgrading the academic environment. The draft law reintroduces the minimum import base in our education system during the pan-Hellenic examinations. The minimum import base is differentiated by school, department, introductory direction, giving universities greater autonomy and more opportunities for students. It is right that there should be a minimum basis for introduction to the university, not as a form of punishment or exclusion to those who were unable to do well in the Greek examinations, which may also be an accidental event sometimes, but as a form of priori assessing future students and, at the same time - and even more importantly - a self-assessment of the candidate itself, so that it does not lead to schools which do not match and which it may not deliver. In addition, with the possibility of compiling the computerised form in two phases, we are helping to make a better selection of the school. With the possibility of submitting parallel computers for the public schools IEK, we open up more opportunities for careers and training, linked to the labour market. As regards the regulations on the extension of security measures to the SNE area, I consider that they are moving in the right direction. I would like to testify to my personal experience. I had the opportunity to study and work, although a child of low economic standards, since my family didn't have much money to four major universities in the United States. These offer an excellent academic environment, excellent services to their students. None of these things I saw left unprotected and could get in any time in their homes and building facilities. Students and employees were perfectly safe, and even cars of university care would take us to our home, if we asked for it, mostly during the evening hours. On the contrary, when I was studying in law school in Athens, I remember that we were looking to find rooms for lessons, and we did not find them, when the teaching rooms were permanently occupied by non-parliamentary organisations, from eternal students, who were the only lesson they were doing in chemistry, where they were looking to find how to make good explosives for the future. That was then the grim reality and that reality we have already improved and we are trying with every step and above all with this bill to improve it today. We must do this in the name of public free education, which must not only be free, but also of quality. We must upgrade it, upgrade the public university for the average Greek student, who cannot, if he does not like the Greek university today, go and study elsewhere. We must do this for all the excellent Greek students and teachers, who find it difficult under the present conditions to deliver to Greece and when they go abroad they do. We call it most of them. Why do Greek students and our researchers and teachers differ abroad? Because there the infrastructure is better and the universities are much more organized. The preservation of university buildings, therefore, is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of at least one of our universities, because there are those who do not respect either the student who wants to study nor the professor who wants to teach neither the administrative staff who want to go to work in the morning at the university and leave unharmed and unharmed at night. Teachers, teachers and workers are needed to protect themselves and to go to their studies and work free of the stress of invaders at universities, because only in this way will we be able to promote knowledge and talk about academic freedom. The university asylum aims to protect freedom of thought, research and teaching and to serve no purpose beyond that. In our thoughts and the conscience of the majority of the Greek people now these things are clear and that is why this bill gives clear solutions. In conclusion, as we speak of institutions supporting higher education, I would like today's opportunity to proclaim from the Step of the House something particularly important and pleasant to me: the establishment in Ancient Olympia, the valley of the Olympic spirit, and Elias, the home of great intellectuals from ancient times, a centre of international university cooperation, which will support what Greek universities and their departments, as well as research institutions want to cooperate with important universities abroad. These transnational and interuniversity programs will be hosted in the world city of Ancient Olympia. With such initiatives, as with this bill, sustainable education can be further consolidated and Greek excellence promoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u579	Thank you very much for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Yiannis Sarakiotis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u580	Thank you, Mr President. I have been listening for days since the debate on the Education Ministry's bill, on television panels of New Democracy officials, journalists, journalists, but also on the last two days here in Parliament, MEPs and Ministers of the New Democracy, to speak with such hatred, with so much dissatisfaction for the Greek universities, for teachers, for students, for students. Where does this whole mob come from for the hope of this place, for the most vibrant and healthy cell of Greek society? I can't understand it. Attack from morning to night for so many days to the Greek university community. I wonder. We have been referring in recent years to Brain Drain. They left the top minds abroad and spread, work in hospitals, in other tasks. All those top minds that were trained, where did they get these knowledge? Did they get them in private schools or the Greek public university, which you pass from morning to night? We are all aware that the Ministry of Education has become an anonymous company, the Ministry of Education SA, and must satisfy the training business groups. He proved this abundantly in the midst of a murder pandemic with the rise of students per school hall, because that's what the private schools asked for. This was confirmed by the equation of the college degrees and confirms it today by the reduction of the admissionees and the creation of a customer for your college friends, because students and students as clients only see them. I have heard many times repeat that it was a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy to vote for this bill. Have you really promised the Greek families that you would build walls in universities so that their children could not be imported? Was that your election commitment? I can hear you talking about safety all the time. On 23 September 2013, Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Dismantling of a thousand three hundred forty-nine permanent and permanent staff and working relationships with private staff of universities, including guards. When you agreed to the abolition of detention posts at universities, didn't you care about lawlessness at universities? You say you know the real needs of universities. Since when do you have to visit a Greek university? Because you're all experts, you all know what's going on in universities, and I wonder if any of you have recently visited them, if he's seen the facilities that students teach. Do you know that there are divisions with few members of the ICPs and they survive thanks to teachers who work with a block and renew their contracts every six months? Aren't those really problems? I went to Athens in 2001. I never felt threatened by my life. My colleague mentioned molotov-produced rooms. I really didn't see that. All I was worried about was no plaster in my head, no windows fall when we were attending the class. The Athens School of Law improved its facilities, but the same situation still prevails today in dozens of university institutions. Don't you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy think that's a priority? You have a long tradition in the field of education, abolish and destroy. You can't create, you don't have the skills, you don't have the capabilities. You've proved it to us in the past. We cannot forget the project "ATHENA" with the abolition of the University of Central Greece. We cannot forget the recent decision by CEO of the Ministry of Education SA. for the abolition of thirty-six sections throughout Greece, four of which in Central Greece and one in Lamia, the one in reasoning. I have heard the word'reform' many times. I also heard the Deputy Minister for Development, Mr Dimas, yesterday talking about reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I understand this bill is a reform to you. But to see what really reform means. I will come to the BSE Special Report - not some other agency - of 17 February 2020 on 'How to get from Brain Drain to Brain Gain'. What does BSE say? "Assisting Brain Drain, with both the recovery of scientific resources and the return of scientists abroad contributes to the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation", the ELIDEK. Founded in 2016 with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and Deputy Minister of State Kostas Fotakis ELIDEK mentioned by BSE. "Through scholarships and grants it provides for research activities and technological applications in Greece on the basis of the first evaluations from the first two years of operation, the project seems to have yielded fruit, as half of the beneficiaries, 45% of the candidates for doctors, and 49% of the postdoctors said they would leave the country if they did not receive the ELIDEEC scholarship." This, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy is a reform. It is not a reform to plan a thousand new Rushphetological Intakes of Special Guards for Universities. That's not reform. Look. Read what BSE says and try to understand what reform means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u581	We would also like to thank Mr Sarakiotis for managing the time. Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis, Member of the New Democracy, will then be given the floor. Mr. Chrysop, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u582	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last hour I note that there is an attempt to shift the debate on the education bill to talk about the police. I've heard many colleagues from the L.A.P.D.'s in their last locations. Briefly, if SYRIZA considers that during our days the police will be able to drive the “Rubic” from the House to Exarchia, after the attack of the “Rubicon” in the House, or that it will observe the bahalakers inside and outside the universities to break them and do nothing to do, to know, gentlemen of the Left, that it is wrong to appreciate you. This is never going to happen nowadays. As far as the bill is concerned, we knew, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that excellence is a relic for you. With the arguments we have heard these two days in relation to the education bill - you have come to say even that the notices against teachers are arguments - I now believe that you on the left are viewing the immunity of universities as a blessing. That's all I can understand. We have been listening to you for days now to go to camps and race on the sidewalks against the bill because he allegedly stumbles the freedoms of the academic community and students, because he allegedly sends students into the hug of private education demanding free admission to universities without academic conditions, without any merits and of course no evaluation. You also have high letters to assess and ensure the quality of the courses provided to our students. Your President, Mr Tsipras, has even reached the point today in plenary to ask - listen! - for reasons of democracy and because the 'immigrants' cannot, your own children, as you said, demonstrate and break them without a health risk, postpone the debate on the bill. How much populism now? Parliamentary Republic, Mr Tsipras and gentlemen of Officerial Response, means an in-depth debate in the House. It doesn't mean revolutionary gymnastics. If a bill is not good and society does not want it, it will vote against the government when the elections are coming. That means Republic. You have not yet realised that your own base no longer supports you in these unexplained choices that only aim to support your "knock" opposition strategy and your tacticalisms and of course to cover your own children who are being ravaged by their illegal behaviour by universities, destroying public property, terrorizing teachers and converting academic research spaces into battlefields. Unfortunately, you have returned, gentlemen, to your good old divisive tactics and the creation of diaphragms, hoping, on the occasion of the Ministry of Education's legislative initiative, that you will be resurrected from the standpoint of opposition. You forget, however, that the samples of your policy have learned them and society knows them well and does not "screw them". You say that academic freedom is sacrificed for the benefit of security and you break your garments that the government implements its organic fantasy by bringing policing, controlled entrance, security cameras. No, ladies and gentlemen. Its election commitments are made by the government and it honours the mandate given to it in the last elections. You must have confused what academic freedom is. For you academic freedom means immunity, it means "patients, dogs, alces", it means "spread free", it means "collapse teachers and guest speakers". It means "white any students who have an opposite view," means "use the university" for any illegal action that can be baptized in your own idealism as freedom of speech. Well, you should know that this is now permanently over in the Greek universities and we have guaranteed the self-evident academic freedom that has been deprived of by the "blacks" for many years. Because academic freedom for all of us who studied at the Greek universities, we did research and we completed our postgraduate and doctoral studies on them is the freedom of absolute expression, opinion and criticism by all members of the academic community, without fear of unconscious propaganda. It is the free promotion and transmission of university knowledge through academic teaching and scientific research without external intervention, disasters and obstruction. This is obviously high for you and the 3% election clientele, which you are constantly supporting. Mr Tsipras said yesterday in his interview that there is a serious problem in universities, and especially in some schools in the centre where we have consistently infringing external-university behaviour, you are not proposing a solution to this. You're not saying how we can deal with it. You don't want the controlled entrance, you don't want the guard, you don't want the university police, you don't want the security cameras installed. You want something? Apparently not. But calm down and don't worry, because the government will neither destroy the self-interest of universities nor, of course, the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. On the contrary, this bill fully defends them against anyone who believes that it can unpunishedly destroy, endanger the life and safety of students and teachers in the name of their ideas. As far as the issue of the minimum import base is concerned, I would like to ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen, of the Vice-President. Importing to higher education a candidate with a degree below ‘10’ is normal and strengthens the quality of education for you? Do you want us to abolish the pan-Hellenic exams? Why don't you say it boldly? It concerns you - you say - the choice of the universities themselves in the course that will have enhanced importance for introduction. Do you not want our universities to have reason and freedom to introduce candidates? Autonomous postcard, gentlemen of SYRIZA? It is clear that you want to go down with the dissolution of all those quality traits that amplify the album and the struggle for excellence, while we in New Democracy support excellence and positive discrimination as a social mobility and elevation strap, as the means to destroy the class inequalities for which you are supposedly so cut off on the left. This view - you know - we did not first formulate it, but one of the greatest philosophers and sociologists in the 20th century who even placed himself on the extreme left. It's Pierre Bourdier who was so praised by Mr. Famelos earlier. I would advise you to give it to your youth to analyze it more and read it. The same applies to the arrangements for eternal students. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] A little of your tolerance, I would like, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u583	No, no. Shut up. I'll be strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u584	Without surprises, without surprise, we put an end to the abuse of study time and allow those who have been late in completing their studies to do so with plenty of time and with the possibility of getting another extension if required for reasons of work or health. Besides, the evidence tells the truth. Approximately 30% of students never graduate, burdening institutions on their education planning and budget. If you really are cut off for eternal students and you really want to continue their studies even after a few years of study, make a proposal, if you want, to overcome the constitutional claws and be able to support their own studies, because it is a constitutional abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u585	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u586	I have not interrupted you, Mr. Burnus. The constitutional logic is abused when the Greek taxpayer pays the eternal student indefinitely.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u587	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Golden. There's no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u588	That's not true, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u589	Close, Mr. Golden. Don't interrupt. I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u590	I am not interrupted, Mr President. I am interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u591	But close with one last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u592	Obviously, you won't do that either, because all you're worried about for eternal students and you're afraid that the abolition of them may happen is that the possibility is not lost and you don't find the next SYRIZA leader. I think that's where you're concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u593	Thank you very much, Mr Chryssollis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u594	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the head of the Ministry of Education, Mrs Kerameos, Mr Syrgos, Mrs Makre, because this bill, which is the revolution of self-evidentity, is something that we have said from my students years of age how necessary and necessary it is. I obviously support it, and I am voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u595	Until Mr Spirtzis comes to Stepma, I would ask everyone: they are about thirty colleagues who have to speak tonight, until the number 112, which is Mr Nektarios Santorinios. As we calculate the time, we're talking for four hours, which means we're gonna have to finish at 1,00'. Since no one has the right to abuse the time of any colleague, I would ask that you keep the time. There will be no tolerance. Seven minutes is your time. In the sixth minute, call the bell, so you will go to the last page and finish. That is something I repeat all the time. There was an interim interruption. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Mr President. It's a pity the Minister left, Mr. Economou. I was there at the time he tried to open up violently not a lane that was open, but the three lanes of the gathered students who "screwed" them after "Dromo" (?), after the service "Dromo" (?) on the sidewalk. Madam Minister, it is really my request that you try not to treat the students like this. It's a pity that the Minister left because he didn't tell us that these students, the fifty, as he informed us, most of them were caught at the Omonia station. We'll see. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country, Greece, the freedom of thought, the freedom of the spirit, the democratic soul of the Greek people, the democratic function, the consciousness of every citizen is inextricably linked to the university and to its essence and to its notionology. It is obvious that we all have our course, our experiences and our experiences and from there we are shaping our positions and our attitude to life. Madam Minister, I would like to take my own experiences to you, because it is in complete disparity with what you say, but also with what is included in the attempted anti-educational and anti-democratic reform. I would also ask you to listen to us, because you've downloaded rolls. The entire university community, in addition to the police and all the opposition parties, other than one, tell you not to. But you go ahead and create an image for the Greek university that affects us all. First and foremost it affects those who present them as "humans", the teachers, the students, those who studied at the Greek institutions, as well as their partners from DPRK, who were together in universities. You're harming them, too. Don't you think about that? Of course, you are also addressing people abroad who have honoured both our country and our people. But you don't have to go far. You can look here, too, in the Chamber. It's Mrs. Papakostas who finished the Law School at the Aristotle University in 1992 from what I saw. Also, Nikos Friend, who ended law school, and Yannis Vroutsi, with whom I haven't had any good relations since I was president at the TEI. I wonder where he said - Mr. Skourlet. - that he accepted "bullying" by Mr. Skourletis. Where can Mr. Skourletis find him? Did anyone see Mr. Brutsis as Minister of Labour? Mr Brutsi's policies were violent, when they were flying outside engineers, lawyers and their children, because they did not have the insurance contributions paid at that time. Have you forgotten? That was violence. It is also here higher than I see Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Mousalas, Kostas Scandalidis, who was at the Metsovio Polytechnics, Thanasis Pafilis in Law and I at the Democritus University. In fact, special mention has been made by Mr. Syrigos of the Department of Electrical Engineering. All of us, therefore, according to your image about the Greek university, were involved or even tolerated the trade, the manufacture of molotovs, the trafficking in narcotics. For Christ's sake! Shame on you. Shame on you, Mr. Syrigos! You know I appreciate you very much. Shame, shame! Let us assume, then, that we all participated or tolerated all these phenomena. How are you going to deal with these facts? So if they're so generalized in all the EITs of the country, you go with violence and oppression to deal with them? So let us take a leap in the future. You are building another body of praetorians of the Government of New Democracy, such as the body you did with motorcycles, such as "DROMOS" (?), such as the police of public transport, and another body of "Praetorians", the university police, the Mitsotakis Government, and starting its work. So, Minister, our children - I have two kids, one is in the second grade and one in the second grade - will go to their school can, in the halls, in the halls and in the halls, and face teams of policemen with special uniforms, clubs, like you said, spray and other means, but they won't have a gun. At this point, I would also like to ask you a few questions: could these policemen be politically in the university? Have you predicted that the policemen, who have been abducted by the forgived Mitsotakis, are discreet enough to know who they are? No, of course not. You have the cameras to show whatever you want! You've heard nothing all this time about the activity of the extreme right-wing teams inside the police and the new police bodies you're setting up. Do you think that in our country we have won a democracy in the operation of the police that has expelled the far right evidence? In two words, do you want the cop who broke the memory bouquet in Alexis Gregopoulou to be inside the university and watch our students, our children? Are you serious? The policemen who entered the house of Mr. Indare? The policemen who were hitting Mr Kathy's family in front of him and harassing sexually a student in Patisian? Congratulations! So take the indicative incidents of police violence - a volume is what has shown the means and not what has actually been done - to understand what you are going to do. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Take another volume of what the police don't do and they had to do and deal with serious crime and organised crime, and we see them emptied every week on the streets and squares of our country. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I will read a paragraph from this book - I want to take a photocopy of it for you - entitled 'The ideology of the New Democracy' of 1976 by Constantine Callia. "Plural sovereignty, the dogma of the majority and the guarantee of dialogue are not enough. In order for political democracy to be completed, it is necessary to protect individual freedoms, individual or human rights." It also has an analysis of the man underneath, but this was with the New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis, not Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u597	Finish it, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u598	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will close at nine minutes, as you have seen the colleague who is an engineer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u599	No, you won't. You don't have the floor anymore. Close with one last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u600	Thank you very much for the same approach!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u601	Treatment is to everyone, and the suggestions are to everyone. And the previous speaker I cut him off, I didn't let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u602	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because I am also an engineer and I was also a president of the TEI and you did what the previous Member, the engineer, who spoke, the excellence, honor us with the three-year graduates of the IEK. Madam Minister, apart from the sectoral issue, in addition to equal treatment, there is the security of the citizen, the security of the construction...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u603	Please warmly. Respect the Bureau and, above all, your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u604	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no. You're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u606	I would like to thank the President-in-Office who, like the government, observes inequality in the way that the Bureau exercises.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u607	All right, Mr. Spirtzi. Report reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u608	It won't pass, Minister, this bill either you want or you don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u609	I'm keeping the praises from Mr. Spirtzi, but I think he's saying it all by himself, not by the others. Mr. Spirtzi, you arrived at nine minutes and I have to tell you that some of your colleagues and colleagues will speak 1.15 minutes after midnight! I warned and was right in all directions. I don't have to say anything else. I would ask Mr Kotsos, the Member of the New Democracy, to take the floor for seven minutes. I'll warn everyone indiscriminately and end in seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u610	Madam Minister, Mr Secretary-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the permanent inclination of the minority, the opposition, in the last three months, whatever bill it comes, is that it is at a void moment, that it is the period of the coronary, that trade is not working, that schools are not working, and therefore the parliamentary procedure should have stopped. To stop the parliamentary procedure, but in opposition there can be marches, protests and demonstrations. The opposition to the government suggests that there is a deterioration in the coronary, but on the other hand, the former Prime Minister says that he accepts the risk of the coronary being dispersed through demonstrations. And, of course, he also felt the need to come today to make corrective statements or to apologise for that statement. If nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, do they not constitute a oxymomile? Aren't these positions conflicting and self-determination? First of all, let us agree that our primary concern for our state is education, the new generation, its restoration and its upgrading. Of course, it would be desirable to have a national agreement on this, so that we could formulate a national policy on the education process. However, the lack of understanding or, if you like, the different political approach, the different perspective, should in no way constitute inertia and inertia. It is certain that today's debate is a dominant ideology. There are ideological considerations, different approaches, becoming a battle of ideas. In democracies there are no dead ends, you know that better than I do. I imagine, however, that we all agree that education is the dominant lever of social mobility and, in particular, of us from the popular classes, from the popular social strata, a dream of life. For the small and medium-sized family - and mainly of the province - to study the child, to raise a level is truly a dream of life and has invested in this dream of life and hope and money and effort. But is it just a dream of life going through a school, whatever it is, wherever it is, and to whatever degree it is? Higher education, colleagues and colleagues, is it for all students? There was one view tabled by Minority that free access could be obtained in some schools. Yes, it is, it says, a little cloudy as it is printed, it could any year change or shape it. But you have ruled, colleagues. Why didn't you? Why didn't you do this politically? You see that the present government is doing what it said in the election, and in a short time it is doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u611	What about that law?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u612	And with that law! You know, your political virginity - I have said it again - has been lost since you ruled. The famous "left account" collapsed because you proved in practice what you were saying before, what you did when you ruled and mainly what you meant. We cannot, when we are in opposition, say what sounds beautiful to the people, but when we come to the government to do quite differently. Should we agree that there should be an assessment of entry into the students' universities? To agree that there should be a minimum import threshold in universities? I think that Mr Philis also said that with 1, with 2 or 3, there are few students who go through the universities. I shall assume, in other words, that you accept that they should not enter universities. If nothing else, it is not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, that a student should not be able to go from second to third grade without having a lower grade, but at the university to whatever degree he is. We are thus protecting the popular layers, as has been said by a colleague who is supposed to represent sovereignly - in his view, why is it not - the popular layers? And what was it? You're cutting out, he says, the kids of the people's families. But this depreciation to the children of the people's families? And take note of the excuse: They don't have, he says, money to pay the tutorial to go to prose schools. On the other hand, there is the argument or word, if you like, that this is all to favour private colleges. But if the kids of the populace don't have any money for the care centers, will they have money for colleges? Isn't that a oxymolymo that you're using and self-determined? In any case, the dream of the people's families is that their children go to schools that have an impact on the labour market, because through social mobility they seek better quality of life, social and economic growth. Does anyone think that going to a school with a '0,6', '1', '2', '3' or '5', is this purpose achieved or are we simply mocking these children into the logic that they will get the famous paper that will open them up for a better life? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do we want universities everywhere, whatever universities may be that meet the requirements of the times, the demands of students and the demands of the market and the economy? Of course, is it possible for someone to be an eternal student? Can it start, for example, in 1975 and graduate in 1998, i.e. thirteen, fifteen, twenty-five years later? Should there not be a limit to this process that works both for the benefit of the family and for the benefit of the student himself, but also for the benefit of the society itself, because it actually has him inactive socially, being an eternal student? And, of course, there is provision in the bill for those students who work, who have particular problems or who have any other peculiarity. Of course, we all agree that there is a question. There is a different political approach to how it is handled. Okay, let's see. But the government's being accused of dictatorial action and an attempt at undemocratic operation at universities, I think, goes far beyond logic. And this has been said and I shall end with that, Mr President. In universities - he says - there is a free movement of ideas and that's why we're going with the police to stop it. Isn't there a free movement of ideas in society? Is there anyone who believes that freedom of movement is being hampered in Greek society today? And here's the police. That's the last one. These plans - it says - are overthrown. I hope and hope that you will overthrow them in the same way that you overthrowded the memos with a law and an article. And you know why I wish you that? Because the Greek society wants a stable process in the educational process and requires us to be serious and responsible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u613	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Minister for two minutes in order to be on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u614	I will be very brief, Mr President. Two ministerial amendments have been tabled, one last week simply had not been given the opportunity to discuss them. As you will have seen since last week, it provides for arrangements for a university canteens discharge, an extension of university property rental contracts, arrangements on digital sanitation, an important initiative jointly with the Ministry of Digital Governance. Use also of resources for equipment and work for preschool rooms, as well as arrangements for Erasmus National Coordination Unit + European Solidity Corps. That's last week's amendment. Another amendment has been tabled which stipulates that other time-limits for applications for registration and submission of relevant documents are set out in order to be enrolled in kindergartens and primary schools. Why is that so? Because, as we have said many times, our intention is to make all procedures much sooner so that we do not get to the situation of recruiting substitutes at the last minute. So everything comes ahead, and that's where this arrangement comes in. There are also arrangements on issues of transfer of teachers who are posted to Greek-language units abroad, questions of resignation of teachers for health reasons and other family reasons. Also arrangements for an appropriate condition of the NSRP 2127 on the establishment, establishment, organisation and operation of working groups. I am available to the House, Mr President, for any questions and we will be discussing them tomorrow anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, Minister. Mr Scandalidis has asked for a minute's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u616	I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u617	You'll be back in position, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u618	I would like to make it clear to you that it is my amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u619	I'll give Mr. Friend a word to ask a question. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u620	Madam Minister, you know that the Change Movement condemns all forms of violence from wherever it comes. Our position is stable and I believe that this situation never promotes democracy or the essential dialogue. In particular, when this violence puts on 'national legitimacy', the problem is increasing extremely. It is incomprehensible, when we are discussing this particular issue today, that similar events should occur against a Member and against people who are protesting. I think that the government is responsible and has to investigate and give responsibility to those who caused the incidents. We cannot ideologically and politically discuss whether the police can be legal within the universities and, on the other hand, there can be such events that actually blackmail all senses of democracy and the proper functioning of the institution of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u621	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Friends has the floor. There is something you want to ask about the amendments. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u622	In Amendment No 744/64 to Article 5 you refer to the National Vocational Training and Lifelong Learning System, and I see that there is an allocation of certification powers from the EEA to other private bodies. Do I understand that right? Is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u623	What's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u624	Is that it? Do I understand that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u625	Did you say Article 5?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u626	Yes, in Article 5. And what's the point? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u627	What exactly about Article 5? Ask the question for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u628	I said that she is talking about the National Vocational Training and Lifelong Learning System and she is referring to the EICP which is responsible for making the certifications, where she can now delegate this competence to other bodies. That's a new lead. We have a public body that makes the certifications, the EEA, and now we're going to private operators. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u629	Madam Minister, you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u630	Thank you, Mr President. I reserve, Mr Philly, to answer you in detail. However, a new element on the possibility of certification, that is, the EEAP certifying private operators was in your bill. The December bill provided for the possibility for EPPI to certify private operators in specific cases. But I will also go back to the specific point you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u631	Mrs. Jackie has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u632	Ladies and gentlemen, the Right, and if she was aged and white-haired, unfortunately she did not change her authoritarianism, nor her head. And so today, unfortunately - I would say, ladies and gentlemen, we are monitoring the same work from another point of view, from another ministry. Because the work remains the same, but every time it changes the ministry. So what is this bill tabled here by the Minister of Education and is it even announced that it is also a major educational reform? On the one hand, it is the service of specific interests in the area of private education, as has certainly been the case in the area of health, as has also been the case and is going to happen in the area of social security. On the other hand, it makes all Greek citizens pay even for the self-declared goods, of course, no matter what taxes and any charges they burden Greek citizens anyway. Access to tertiary education is a constitutionally guaranteed right to all modern constitutions of advanced democracies around the world, and it must not be hampered either by income or by racial criteria or other restrictions. If we agree on this, the crucial question is how this sufficient knowledge is certified. And the safest way to do this is the three-year-old school at a high school that is doing his job seriously and is not just an examination centre for candidates for the pan-Hellenic exams and the successful reception of a prestigious diploma, which will attest to sufficient knowledge of the candidate's introduction to higher education. This is our approach. This was recommended by the Gabroglou Law. And to be fair, corresponding efforts have been made in the past by former Ministers of Education and by George Papandreou and Geramos Arsenis to upgrade precisely the role of high school, not so successful. The draft law we are discussing today prejudges as a way of certifying adequate knowledge of an algorithm involved in the process and the universities themselves. However, it results in the establishment of a large number of graduates who, with the most complex calculations, will be in the order of twenty-five thousand, i.e. about a third of the importers. And why am I talking about trapping? And this is where your phenomena and hypocrisy lie. Why do you go through students who have so far spent in university institutions with grades below the basis of some low demand sections, while the right thing would be to respond to the essence of the problem, i.e. to upgrade the quality of teaching in high school so that their graduates have all the elementary competence. So instead of following this path, you are trapping the graduates of a degraded school in the widest sense of higher education and driving a number of high school graduates of about twenty-five thousand in dubious private colleges, which you have arranged from the other door to equate them to public universities, effectively equating their degrees with those of the public university. So while you state that you have good intentions from the result you act as a fake of the dubious quality private colleges of the plaque, who buy by the franchise method a sign, a name from abroad and with customer-trade processes will also provide these degrees of play. Because that's exactly what you do, dear Mrs. Kerameos, you make the college owners richer and you want to get us back in the early 1990s where there the invaders barely approached thirty to forty thousand. That's the reality. And while the Greek society has conquered for many decades the right of its children to attend the public university, since the number of importers has increased since 1998 - since this period, I remind you - in the eighty thousand, leading to a shrinking of doubtful quality private and colleges, you are giving them not only the status of a university, but today you are a client and a great customer. Dear Minister, if you have the courage, as you say you have, to upgrade teaching in high school, so that students who are studying to have cognitive competence instead of giving them a low-value dismissal. However, at the same time - and here again is your hypocrisy - you are not at all concerned about the fact that, with this diploma, they will go to private colleges and have a higher education degree, even by paying for it inappropriately. You do the same with the "eternal" students. The so-called 'eternal' students would say it's an idea of your resignation. Do you really know how many of these 'eternal' students are? Their number is dramatically reduced by those who have not studied since the sixth year and if we are talking about 'eternal' students, namely those who are in the tenth year, for example, we are talking about few. Indeed, as the universities themselves say, they do not bear any economic burden on them, for the simple reason that they do not take writings or enjoy the benefits of student status, because they simply end up with the fifth year, but they do not have an educational weight, precisely because they do not take part in the educational process, so that they can create crowds, as you do. So your reform, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is in this part about shadows, because the 'eternal' student is not a problem for the universities that I have told you about. On the contrary, with the universal horizontal deletion of everything you are in danger of creating a problem with whom? In these few people who, for personal, family and economic reasons, have not succeeded in completing their studies in time and while they could come back to get their degree, you abolish their right to the second chance. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kerameo's third major reform is the university police. It is, that is, the use, as a Chinese proverb says, "do a pome, kill a fly". Indeed, there is a security problem, as everyone admits in very specific terms, two, three, four universities in the centre, which is obviously a problem and must be addressed with the assistance of the university community and the assistance of the Greek police and not with the placement of special guards - a gunman at the entrance and the surroundings of the universities. Universities must not and cannot in any way be held in prison, because that is not the case with any other service in our country. It will be paradoxical to be able to enter some public service, if it wishes, of course, in compliance with the laws and rules, but it cannot enter a university area, which is the most important area for developing the freedom of expression of young people. It is almost certain that this police will either be overthrown and beaten or arrested by students' organisations who are free to express themselves or fall off at the other end and that they are full-fledged. I do not think, however, that a special guard or a group of special guards can do anything more than a university security team, assisting when there was a need from the police, as is the law you voted on, but you have never implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is obvious that if there are any violations in some universities in the centre, this could be dealt with overnight, as the police can enter these areas, without even permission, according to your law. But he never did, as the hypocrisy of the state and the feasibility of the Greek police pushed these people into university institutions, so that there would be the alibi of their not pursuing them and, of course, that the surrounding inhabited areas would remain clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u633	And that's it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u634	Just give me a minute, Mr President. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u635	Shut up. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u636	It's not the last sentence. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u637	Mr. Nektarios Santorinios will speak after 1,000 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u638	Because the police can very easily stop these violations immediately if they wish. But it must have the political will and the desire to do its job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u639	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u640	Just for reasons of impression, but also for reasons of rosphericity, because three hundred policemen will be hired, the problem will be transferred from the very specific university spaces of the centre to the surrounding areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u641	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u642	I will close with that, Mr President, if I may. We in the SYRIZA are in favour of creating a status of flexicurity and legitimacy in the academic countries, as in all public areas. However, the establishment of the university police is pulling the remaining ones in the other direction and, of course, this government is exploiting the very disgusting and unscrupulous attack on the dean of ASE to prove exactly reflexive fanaticism and right-wing conservativeism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u643	The floor will now be taken by the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Andreas Nikolakopoulou. Mr. Nikolakopoulou, excuse me, but your name has been written in some margin here. In the paper I have, unfortunately, it's written with a pen that doesn't appear. It's on the blue. Hot request, though. What am I supposed to do? Turn off the microphone at seven minutes? It can't be done otherwise. We're going to exceed 1,000, so I told Mr. Santorinio, who is the last for tonight, that I'm counting him just before or shortly after 1,000 seconds and just before Mr. Musala. Mr Synthyriakis, you have the floor, with a warm request to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u644	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome the thousands of students who broke out throughout the country, defending the right to study, to life with rights. These great movements across the country, with all protection measures, neither risk nor risk, as Mr Tsipras says, nor can they be the subject of a false bipartisan conduit among those responsible for the current situation. This zombie bill, as students have rightly described it, is on request of Maximos, with allied Greek Industrialists' Association, the European Union's staff, the OECD and the good and undefiled children of the DPRK. It is the "University of Anonymous Society", with even more class barriers to admission to universities, cutting off the right of young children to study, profession, with their unique ticket. It is a bill of terror and suppression of the student movement only to safeguard the University of S.A.. And his business. You're so wicked and enthusiastic that you've been bringing it now, under Lockdown conditions, with six thousand dead, with the schools closed down for a year, just so that students and academics don't react. In order not to blame you, of course, the same wickedness as the previous and previous governments and ministers have done. We remind New Democracy that it voted to abolish asylum in the summer of 2019. All for this practice took it from SYRIZA, who passed the notorious Gavroglou framework law within Easter holidays and much more. Anti-Flemish policy, construction of the University of S.A. go hand in hand with state repression and authoritarianism. This is the classic substance of urban democracy and in this sense, it is provocative and revealing as to the intentions of SYRIZA to place Mr. Tsipras in a television interview, that the provisions for the university police that New Democracy brings are a firework, that it is the elsson. Yes, what does that statement reveal? That SYRIZA's disagreement with New Democracy is not in its own university police, but who will have responsibility for it, whether the Ministry of Public Order will have it or will have it. This, indeed, is really the blasson issue. Of course, the hypocrisy of the New Democracy Government is an eye on the establishment of a university police for the purpose of protecting academic freedom, when she has been beaten up by provocative incidents, with lies, with slanders, with police officers in the institutions, with entry checks and disciplinary charges on students and staff and invoking the need for moralization and order in the universities, while the porn party of the DPRK - NCI - and the takeover of courses is the main means of communication, hostage and extracting student consciences. The changes that the Government promotes in the way it is introduced into universities have nothing to do with the upgrading of university education. The social 'elevator', which Mrs Keramos claims, hides the deeply reactionary idea that not everyone is the same and not all have the same rights and opportunities. The social 'elevator' is, in fact, the social, class cut of young people, working people's families. The Government reintroduces the minimum import base, which means thousands of fewer enterers, as when it was first applied to the Minister of State, Mr Giannakou, and will be more affected by regional universities. The minimum that could today alleviate the candidates in this stressful and costly process of the pan-Hellenics would be the unlimited possibility of multiple preference options, with the right to repeat the process as many times as the candidates want, with the guarantee of a course rating for the next years and extended school choices depending on the courses. This is not the case, however, for private colleges. Access to them does not require any basis for introduction, except for the possibility of payment of tuition fees. Many departments of universities will, of course, suffer huge losses. For example, at the Hellenic Mediterranean University in Crete from the eleven sections, ten will have losses, while the risk of closing some of them is visible. The same is true of course in western Macedonia, Thrace, the Peloponnese, the University of the Aegean and it goes on to say. This categorisation of institutions in regional and central, well and bad sections, demand segments or not is at all accidental. All governments consciously degraded them in substance, despite the opposite declarations, by shrinking teaching staff with a permanent employment relationship. If you really wanted to strengthen regional institutions, you should first and foremost recruit educational staff with a permanent and stable employment relationship, strengthen infrastructure, facilitate access to so-called island and remote areas, with cheap tickets and frequent routes. The limitation of the choices of candidate students, the definition of the minimum import base, the triple computer system in two phases, for universities and another for the public IEC, will have a disastrous effect on candidates from the working class, on poorly populated strata. They also include the degrees of many categories and speeds, leading to the closure of university departments, following the projects "ATHENA" and the universities at the Ministry of Gavroglou. They are paving the way for capital speculation, for education that is ready to welcome the customers of young people. You are seeking to create a local postgraduate education, with colleges, upgraded private IEK, more organically linked to the needs of the capital, in the context of the strategy you are serving, the European Union, for diplomas and qualifications that anyone will give and will ultimately judge the market itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u645	Complete, Mr Colleague, last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u646	I shall conclude, Mr President. The draft law is in complete alignment with the draft of the Committee of Wise Men and the Pissaridis report, this otherwise 'excessive' committee, which is proposing what? Rescheduling institutions on the ground, reintroducing TEIs in a different form, but the same substance, typically abolished by recent universities, setting up three-year courses, calling them schools or universities of application. So this university you're looking for is the market university, the anonymous companies, with bigger business risks, the gaming of their reserves, the investments on business terms. Obviously, this bill will remain on paper and we call on people and youth to take the case in his hands to overthrow this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u647	Thank you. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u648	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for three days an important bill has been discussed in the Greek Parliament, which undoubtedly forms a different academic environment. Regardless of the different political and ideological positions and approaches, we must all admit that there is a thorough debate, with many speakers from all parties, as has been the case in the relevant Commission. Of course, there was prior consultation, submission of proposals, but also a thorough and intense dialogue. The question that should be asked, in particular to the colleagues in the Civilian Representation Officer, is as follows: Where has public dialogue, criticism and the promotion of opposing arguments been hampered, so that there is a need for celebrities to be organised, which you have been leading in the last few days? In an Attica in red you were organizing rallys, openly violating the streets, putting public health at risk, and even justifying such illegal behaviour, because this bill was filed, in the midst of a pandemic. In the midst of a pandemic, it cannot, in your view, go on with the legislative work except in the laws that you agree. That's what the Chief of Staff said yesterday. Otherwise you are threatening to risk public health and of course you are giving the right to anyone who disagrees, in any decision of the government, to protest in the midst of a pandemic, as Mr Koufontina's defenders have done a few days ago. In this way, with this contradictory, disorientative behaviour, you are giving a wrong message to a tired society of implementing measures and a critical turning point in the battle against pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that no one is satisfied with the situation of violence and lawlessness in some of the universities in the country. The Government of the New Republic shall implement one of its main programming positions, for which it has taken a vote of confidence by the citizens. The majority of public opinion, after all, supports the preservation of universities and wants an environment of safety in our universities. The abolition of university asylum has already been voted on, and it is time to identify the type of security, how the intervention and the body responsible. This is provided for in this draft law in a number of provisions, for which provision is made for the establishment of a specially trained university institution protection team, which will be subject to the police. The Safety and Protection Committee and the Safety and Protection Unit, which will be addressed and subject to the Rectorial Authorities, are also provided for and will be composed of LPIS members. On this, all political forces and SYRIZA should take a clear position on security. They should tell us what they are proposing for safety at universities, unless they do not care about the formation of an environment of safety, as is apparent from the results of the years of their governance. The view that universities themselves should take care, except ineffective, as experience has shown to date, is vague, perhaps deliberately vague, because you do not explain to us how to guard from the universities themselves. You have to tell us if you agree to the custody of a private company, if the university decides to do so, as many foreign universities have done. Do you prefer private company custody in relation to police custody? And since the police, according to the law, may intervene when criminal offences are committed, why not agree on a constant guard against a specially trained body where necessary, since this ensures the immediate and timely prevention of a criminal offence? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to explain what problem you have with the Greek Police. Why don't you trust the Greek police officer? In what sense can the policeman safeguard the safety, for example, of a hospital or of any other public body and cannot safeguard university safety when he is specially trained for this purpose? Let some people finally understand that we are living in a democracy, which must protect freedom, and let us not see every week and a diversion. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, among other things important regulations, contains another one to which I should like to mention, supplementing the computerisation of the pan-Hellenic examinations in two phases, a regulation aimed at giving greater weight to the expressed preference of candidates at a university department. The choice of a university cannot be random, but conscious, because this ensures the upgrading of the quality of study with the participation of students who targeted the department they want and thus is more likely to complete their studies and have a worthwhile academic course. Here it is said by some that this is how regional universities can be affected, but that is not the right argument. Regional universities do not need students who simply register and do not actually study and then seek another school, either through new examinations or through relocation. These universities need students who choose them consciously and on academic criteria. This, of course, does not deny the need to support these sections in funding and members of the JEP. I should mention the example of the two university departments of the Ilias Prefecture, the Museology Department of the Tower, which is in urgent need of members of the LAG, as well as of the Amalada Department of Agriculture. We expect support for these departments, as we expect the University of Patras, in the context of the self-employed, to give some of the positions it has taken and the sections of the Elias Prefecture. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contributes substantially to ensuring academic freedom, upgrading the academic environment and academic studies and the safety of universities. It is another reform of the New Democracy Government that enjoys citizens' confidence and will surely shape a better academic environment, a knowledge-based and free movement of ideas. The voices of regression, ideality, reaction to everything new are isolated from the Greek society that seeks progress. Violence, fear and lawlessness have no place in our universities. So I invite you to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u650	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds to give Mr. Friends an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u651	Yes, of course. Mr. Philly, sit down in order to get a reply to the question you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u652	I have committed myself, Mr President, to answer Mr Philly. I confirm what I said earlier, Mr Philly. The draft law, adopted in Article 50, if I am not mistaken, provides for the possibility for the EEA to license certification bodies, and that is only for non-formal education. Until this process takes place, the scheme in force until now, which means that the ones with certification are normally progressing, so it is a transitional arrangement until it has been certified by the EEA of these bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u653	Thank you, Minister. I call on the SYRIZA Member of the Step - Progressive Alliance Mr. Meropi Jufi for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u654	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law approved by the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Public Order is a bill seeking to overthrow the democratic acquis of the last fifty years in higher education and professed by the Minister and Article 16 which has not been able to revise. It is therefore a direct attack on public universities and the new generation, as is the entire New Democracy project to reduce public education to the benefit of private initiative and the market. I am of course referring to the natural allies and government donors, as they themselves have revealed here in the House without any sign of shame and contraction. The government, therefore, with this bill, obsessed and passionately raises transport and literally barriers to the introduction of pupils to universities. We have tabled documentary evidence of its effects. We have seen no other scenario from the Minister, which shows that fifty cities will lose students and seventeen of the twenty-four higher education institutions will suffer significant losses, particularly regional universities. Obviously, you hadn't said that in your election programme. Of course, these are directly effective, namely practical since September 2021, some twenty-two thousand students will not go to the university, because the government decided in the middle of a pandemic, with the schools going down for a second consecutive year, to increase the blockade and shorten the Greek public university. A similar study has been carried out by OLEME. What does the Ministry of Education respond to all this? Repeats inexpensive ethics about admission to universities with white glue. How many are these students, Minister? We want you to give us a clear answer. This measure has been in force for a decade. Do you have a study justifying your decision to cut off twenty thousand students from next year? You say there are other ways, other than an elevator, in addition to a university course, and you show vocational training. You dare talk about an educational space that you have forty years undermined and despised, which we made a serious effort to bring him up with respect to increased needs, constantly talking to the educational community and professional bodies, where we put measures such as the "postal year of apprenticeship" and the "A New Authority in ESDP", which were awarded as excellent European practices and which increased the employment rate of graduates from 38% to 51% and which you did not want to continue. In fact, a month ago you established in another direction arrangements leading to early specialisation and unpaid child labour. And, of course, you delivered the keys to the market and to businesses so that vocational education and training can produce limited education, moderate skills and low expectations. But you say they can go anywhere else. So where are you pushing them? Those who, of course, can afford to afford to the private colleges, which you have ensured to strengthen and equate to the mosquitoes, Madam Minister, their degrees with those of public universities, with a late night's amendment and without any consultation. Of course you have another inspired script to go to the IEK. Yes, sir. What IEK? The public IEK, what you have cut them by EUR 30 million, which you have not taken care of for other educational staff, who are not talking about improving infrastructure and workshops, and you have probably forgotten that you have also legislated for the closure of many public IEKs in the country. So in the same pattern. Where can the kids go? In private IEK, creating illusions to thousands of families, because IEKs produce training rather than education. So stop playing with our intelligence. One more thing. What you want to institutionalize, the quality criteria of excellence for higher education institutions, will you put them on studenting in private colleges? Are these undone there? Does that only count for tuition? Give us a concrete answer. Of course we didn't hear anything about the role of high school. Is it not related to the introduction to higher education institutions? What did you do? You have ripped out all the positive reforms that the SYRIZA Government tried to introduce with a new structure in the 3rd High School with an exotic teaching of basic lessons in tackling paradigms, with limited access to low-access schools, with access to the EAA's Sanctions Office in the two-year courses of study at the University of European Qualifications level 5 with the agreement of congresses and local societies, which you abolished with a single-twind, because your aim was the massive reduction of importers to higher education institutions. They won't have any invaders. They'll be a few, they'll be closed. And what are you going to do with scientists providing services to them? Will you send them back abroad? You have already been told about the risk of the regional universities being affected and Mr Digalakis and Mr Consolas and many colleagues who say that they will vote for the law, but that there will be a special arrangement for their own universities. What exactly are you suggesting? What is your proposal to strengthen them, so that there are no further social inequalities that will affect local communities? And I come to the second pillar of the bill you have written it with the Ministry of Public Order, that is to say the return from the years of the police junta within the HEIs against the decisions of pre-seals, senators and the vast majority of the university community. You're saying we didn't do anything. Mr Consolas has already told you that we have tried to discuss the issue with the Committee on Friday, but unfortunately the conclusion of this committee, which was the result of cooperation between the conventions, the prosecutors, the police authorities and social workers, throw it into the trash. Is there another proposal? The university authorities suggest that you have permanently trained security personnel. You don't hear it. You want to set up special guards in the universities, with all across the police itself and many conservative politicians who have been ministers and have run universities, precisely because, instead of hiring university, management, you want to raise expenditure on research, you want to put alarms, fences, cameras and monitoring systems. In the same context, of course, the deletions of students who do not cost anything in the state. They are arrangements that are consciously affecting democracy within the higher education institutions, of which you have deprived the ordinary budget by 20% and threaten them explicitly within the bill that if they do not implement the measures you impose them, you will cut their funding next year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government is in neoliberal, neo-tech vertigo, in a spiral of arbitrary and authoritarianism that testifies the strengths of our democracy and our society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As a member of the SYRIZA and the Left, as well as someone who has served the public university and more than two decades I am irresponsible for the slandering defamation of higher education institutions and their students. I do not tolerate that university and precursors which, according to Mr Chrysochide, are addicted to violence and to a crisis of decline when our universities, thanks to the effort of the entire university community, belong to the best 2% to 3% of the world's universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u655	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u656	I conclude with one message: Students, workers, teachers at universities, teachers, parents and students, even the quiet institutions of justice will say in their way 'no pasaran' in this unfair law. And your effort will fail.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u657	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u658	Because education, Minister, is not the filling of a bucket with skills and knowledge, as you can imagine. It's the lighting of a flame. And this flame you fear, the flame of questioning the new generation and the claiming of a better life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u659	Mr Constantine Bluchos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor - I would point out again - for seven minutes. You all have the texts ready. I think you can adapt them to seven minutes so that all Members can be made easier, because some colleagues will speak after 1,000 minutes at night. It's not fair. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u660	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the dimensions of the present have been fully analysed, I will be slightly differentiated by a slight shredding and an editorial comment. Ladies and gentlemen of any left-wing opposition, the simple and unique invoicing on the social good and the hymns, in which you are constantly indulging, simply satisfy you as if you were admiring your left idol in the mirror of fetishment and self-cycling, and in essence you are moving in the narrow limits of reactivity and simple denial. That's political self-defense! The world cannot go ahead with the left delusion that the improvement of our lives comes only with marches, demonstrations, occupations and not mainly with intensive education and a lot of work. On the left in Greece it became clear that the herd on the altar of their uncovered individual jurisdiction, their tyrannical euphemism and the notion of revolutionary violence as a means of enforcing their views. The Greek Left is established in an endless time of passivity, which, in order to do something with its inertia, resorts to the famous rituals that pour out invariance with degraded symbolisms. Once again this has been proved by the representatives of the Greater World, who from the Step proclaim to all tons that they will fight to prevent the present being implemented. So what? To maintain the status of students' bilaterals in university schools by creating the illusion of the multitude for which the sponsor, like the state, takes care of. So what? To continue the university’s imperfection with students who deliver even white glues to the pan-Hellenics, who completely ignore the nature of the studies they did not choose, but have them come to do. Because it's a raffle, it's not a target success. So what? They must continue to exist under the irresponsible responsibility of the administrative authorities. 'A priori' condemnation and importance, but above all the necessity. And the question is obvious: The New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis was evangelizing and that is what he promised. Of course, the New Democracy was democratically elected to implement what it promised. Is the Republic finally to do what a government has promised to do or not to do anything in fear of the reactions and battles promised by the Opposition? Usually governments are accused of their inconsistency. We're probably the ones for our consistency. We also heard this: Universities are a nursery of youth politicisation. Universities are not primarily incubators of learning science and of creating new knowledge. This point of view alone is the epitome of darkness, regression and political nonsense, or rather, of your strategic choice, of permanent aphasia. The spokesman of the minor Orthodox Left spoke of the timeless deforestation of education. But deforestation of education has also been done by your own fault and co-responsibility, with your permanent and absolute resilience, by applying your rebellion on the ground. Ultimately, you must stop sucking your slogans of the upbringing sentences. And there is always an invocation for the self-employed of the HEIs. This concept has been overthrown rather so much that it is at risk of undetermined meaning. So let us make it clear, so that we do not incur all the interpretations and wisdom that are heard. Self-sufficient means primarily responsibility for everything that is going on, for everything that has to be prevented and not prevented, responsibility for all that has been lost, for the human labor that has become smoked, for the dignity of people who have become a rag, for the fear that the few who dared to speak, the responsibility of the perpetrated dean by some who have been given indirect leftover protection, the responsibility which 71.6% of students of a section of the largest university in the country are ponds. Self-employed is not just a right. It is a great burden, the burden of cowardice, hypocrisy, compromises and trade with party youths and outright interests, the burden of the many inadequacies and the unbearable cancellation of the few. Self-employed means debt, debt to the new generation, debt to the country. It means strong. It is not a power for easy and decommissioning responsibility for the difficult. Self-sufficient means mostly self-criticism. I've forgotten a terrible word, the self-criticism, inappropriate to the left! That's why the protectors of the progressive left never grow up. "Similarity" is, which says a soul, when they are ugly, blackmailing and threatening the Minister of Education or when they are punching a teacher. All this, according to the Greater Representative, is rather a politicisation of youth. That is a good view of democracy and politicism. Democracy is what you think. Everything else, what? Probably neoliberalism and fascism. It is a pity to the 'immigrants'. It is not the condemnation of a threat, it is the irony to the Minister and the political poverty. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the Great, for you is the legacy of the five-year 'first time left', excellence is retaliatory. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] What changes would mean 'a priori - and' or interference or destruction of the self-employed, autonomy and self-regulation of university organizations? Is there a deterioration and decay? And what function is weariness? And why stubbornly deny reality for things that are self-proof and obvious? How is internal academic regulation achieved and ensured the adoption of good governance practices for our universities? What are the necessary and adequate conditions, but also the guarantee of responsible and virtuous autonomy? It is precisely for these terms and for the sake of this responsible autonomy that we are legislating on the basis of the preconditions, not as a vengeance or self-determination, when the terms of humiliation and police rule no longer find any resonance, but as a renaissance. Because decay and oxidation against Clana need institutional insurance. You are trying to unleash political time with explosive zealism in your own outdated truth, teenists of an unleavened political present of the early Postpopulation. You're stuck in time forty-six years ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is obvious that changes need to be made. We are now choosing to diversify and to do this, to leave behind the decline, to do the unpleasant seemingly, the difficult operationally, the demanding communication but also, in fact, the people - rather than the consumption of imaginary, rather than the visions, as they are with you and instead of continuing this endless passivity and inertia. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u661	Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u662	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Government once again, loyal to its announcements and to its reform programme, brings forth a draft law of the Ministry of Education, a section, I would say, in higher education, the aim of which is to improve education and the academic environment. Madam Minister, before I refer to the substance of the bill, I was informed of an amendment tabled by the Change Movement concerning the recognition of professional engineering rights for the engineers of the Icaron School. Honestly, I do not understand why, in 2018, the engineers of the Icaron School, a school of jewelry, equal to the higher education institutions, were not included. I would remind you that it has been evaluated twice, in 2015 and 2020, by an Independent Quality Assurance Authority and I think it is the state's obligation to restore injustice. Also, before I mention the substance of the draft law from his debate, I would like to highlight the logic which has been understood by SYRIZA, which really goes beyond me, namely that at the time of the pandemic the House should not legislate. I accept any criticism, I accept the disagreement. Besides, it's the rules of democracy. But shouldn't we legislate? This means that the House must not operate. So, should we turn it off and put it on the autopilot? Honestly, I do not understand whether this is a lack of seriousness or whether it is part of any more general spirit of the 'land fire'. Others also argued that there is no need to come a new legal framework, since the old are sufficient. So, with this logic, the universities all go well, the students attend their studies at the schools they have chosen, they get their degree in reasonable time, there are no "eternal" students, teachers unobstructed perform their work, there are no tragedies, no pre-conflicts, no disasters, no illegitimate acts and general order and quietness prevails in the spaces of university schools. And then what? And then, ladies and gentlemen, we woke up because all this is a summer night dream and what really is the opposite. And, indeed, Mr President, I wonder what the government should do? Keep the head hiding in the sand as an ostrich? To keep seeing the elephant in the room and not to notice him and pretend that nothing happens, in common to shepherd the island, as our people say, to do the duck? No, of course not. Our government is a government of responsibility, it has chosen the difficult path of reform and, from there on, the people will judge us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to mention the important provisions of the bill. The Ministers, the rapporteurs and the previous colleagues have largely analysed these issues. I shall say this, however: in my view, it does something very simple, it interferes with the issues that the practice has so far proved to be suffering, interferes with the issues and gives the universities a new direction of reform and a greater role. Madam Minister, I would like to congratulate your own and the others on the political leadership of the Ministry that you are agitating the lush waters of higher education. I agree with all the arrangements of the bill, except for one, which I think needs to be improved. The two and three years envisaged as the time limit for completing studies with a deletion penalty, I think it is not enough. I believe that these limits must be seen again in more time. In two-thirds of the school year, however, if the student who has completed, for example, the n+2, if it is indifferent, if no lesson has been learned in the last year, if he has not renewed his registration, because, Minister, many of our students do not study with the best amenities and conditions. They work for a living with too many problems, and I want you to see it and be more vigilant. On the other hand, I am amazed, ladies and gentlemen, by SYRIZA's obsession with the protection of 'eternal' students. I wonder why he wants to keep there? Why is he involved in university control? And furthermore, the Roman student movement that SYRIZA propagandas what he has done so far to protect university spaces? Ladies and gentlemen, the defenders of university non-polluting want to continue to have unrestricted access to university spaces each race and tongue luben, arrogant, junkie, problematic, uncontrolled, paranoid vandal going into amphitheaters, offices, students and for the fun of destroying, writing vulgarities, pre-controlling teachers and disseminating elected advances. And any institutionalised control that serves social self-protection, is authoritarianism, is arbitrary junta. This logic is like a established collective paranoia, masochist syndrome, that lasts forty - seven years, half a century of collective addiction to a deliberate paranoia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u663	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u664	Mr President, let me tell you that these last words are not mine - and I am ending - but the enlightened teacher I have had the chance and the honour of having with many years of life in the universities, Christos Giannaras, which I endorse until the end. So far, lawlessness in university spaces! I am voting in favour of the bill, and I ask, ladies and gentlemen, the same of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u665	Thank you. We continue with Mr Thraniotis Emmanuel from SYRIZA and please respect the time for the next speakers. Here, Mr. Thraniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u666	Thank you, Mr President. One could speak today in this bill for a long time, not only to dismantle a step - step by step, word for word the Government's arguments, but also to prove and show what the real objective of higher education is in the final bill - reform of higher education. For the first time literally, no government has ever thought of changing the system of introduction in normal conditions in the middle of the school year, let alone now with the coronary pandemic, which has brought up to the lives of citizens in terms of health, the economy, social cohesion and mental health. We are now trying to face the pandemic, to balance the acrobatisms, to close schools, to stick to children, to open up - to close the market, to focus, to the economy. In this climate you change the rules of the game in education, no matter the conditions that affect psychology, not only the students but also their families. Here's how the students of St. Nicholas High School comment in their letter, Minister, which I have submitted as a report. I put it in the Minutes: "We are asking you for nothing more than understanding, because the anxiety that has taken us from the pandemic is a fact that affects our already burdened psychology." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Thraniotis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, instead of understanding, what are you doing? Enter the minimum import base, with the result that you are deprived of access to higher education to twenty-five thousand students. But if we don't blame you, Minister, it's not your originality. The same practice was followed by your predecessors. In 2013, the project "ATHENA" abolishes a series of TEIs, including Ierapetra in Lasithi, on the basis of a report - a proposal, an author of which was a large-scale owner of IEK. Now, the Minister, taking the steps of her predecessors, abolishes the two-day public vocational training courses for the sake of the private, abolishes the newly established departments, because the same courses are taught in private colleges and IEKs. The cherry on the cake? That's an amendment to college molds with the universities. But let us make a case, ladies and gentlemen. Two classmates at the same school give tests. One, the good guy, goes to college, the other with the white glue, which you've made a flag, is written in a college with only the economic potential. There's a competition for a job. Who do you think will take the place? Of course, the one with the white glue, because by the equation of college degrees with the universities it will end in three years, while the university's one in five. If that's what you mean it's an upgrade of higher education, it's the worst one can expect. With this bill New Democracy is looking to close university doors for many children, necessarily leading them as a client in colleges. As far as the police are concerned, I will not go into detail. The former Minister, Mr. Souflias, Mr. Fortsakis, the former dean, Mr. Spiliotopoulos, Mr. Kyrchos and others have been placed. However, I would like to make a comment on what the Secretary of State for Education, Mr Syrigos, has said. There were no police stations in the universities, Mr. Undersecretary. But there was something else. Because I lived at the time, there was the student's security, there were the concierges at the entrance of the universities, who were watching each student, and they dashed him, if they thought he was infringing their view and were invited to the student's case. According to the calculations, however, if you really want to upgrade the Greek university, you can increase the budget, fill vacancies in teaching staff and infrastructure, increase the funds for research, etc. Our universities have envy positions in the world ranking, despite sub-funding. But with what you are doing, you are constantly exaggerating for criminal behavior, I think you are deceiving them. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a reference to Lassithi. With Law 4610/2019 the School of Physical Education and Sport in Agios Nikolaos and Physics in Ierapetra was created in the Lasithi prefecture, in the framework of ELMEPA, in the direction of the balanced and equitable development of Crete. The logic of selecting these two issues was: First, there was no overlap with similar sections. Secondly, they must have synergy with each other. Thirdly, they must have synergy with the already operating sections, mainly the Nutrition and Dietology in Sitia and the planned one, which is at the stage of completion of the studies, the Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Naples. Fourthly and importantly, there are modern facilities, especially for the School of Physical Education and Sport on a plot of two hundred acres marketed by the municipality and built by the former UCLAF. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What were we trying to do with the choice and establishment of these sections? A visionary goal through education and science, development and health promotion, together with the primary sector and tourism. Today all this has been frozen. The evaluation committee has not been able to answer. Mr. Digalakis' commitments have been lost with him, while the University Department of Agios Nikolaos, like other regional departments, is at risk of the cuts you are planning. It is up to you, Minister, to enable us to achieve this visionary objective today, because otherwise, tomorrow I assure you that we will do so. Finally, Mr President, a reference to special education schools. In high-risk areas they will be the only ones that operate. There are cases of coronary detection in pupils and teachers. Measures must be taken to protect both pupils and teachers. Priority should be given to the vaccination of teachers in special education schools, for example. We are voting against this bill. The only solution is to withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u667	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Markopoulos from New Democracy, Mr. Burunou, Mr. Manda, Mr. Muzala, Mr. Andrianos and Mr. Moraitis. Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u668	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the legend renders Kosmas the Aetolus to emphasize the need for education of the nation, the phrase "remove even the churches, as long as you make schools". Obviously, it was a form of speech for Patrocosma, who really loved and hurt the Greeks for the uneducated of the time. After all, this is the power of Greek education to build where some are tearing down. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek university has been destroyed by some, on their own responsibility and by anyone else. Not to build, however, as Saint Cosmas said. They demolished it for fun, demolished it from an ideological approach, from a constant revolutionary dream and from a May of '68s duration. Some, instead of seeing that a global digital revolution is taking place, that the planet is moving on differently, that is different from what we know, that things have gone a long way, instead of being pressed in the 21st century, they are stuck in the 1985 Chemistry and they are already horrific. You remember the 1985 Chemistry. The whole of Athens is burned. The whole of Athens was divided. But some still remain there, in the rock war and in the dissolution. Really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what is your proposal? We haven't figured it out. We understand your reaction. We have not heard of a proposal. How will university institutions be attributed to the real beneficiaries, students? How do we build the university tomorrow? We're listening to a lasting complaint. But we haven't heard of a proposal yet. How, then, will we be keeping universities? With a Roman student movement, as Mr. Gavroglou said, your former Minister? So, what was your suggestion just to talk about it? A new version of Lotta Continua, the Italian left-wing organization, which had been seized in universities and with a paramilitary action, has been supervising? What's that? We must not move easily and say 'the student movement'. This has to be done, to explain it to us. How will academic freedom be protected from every puppy, from every ball, from every criminal? There can't be crossings with labels. I have said that this reminded me of the film by Giannis Dialianidis "Law 4000". What did someone call a tediboy then? We suddenly saw some people crossing the dean, Mr. Burantonis. However, for reasons of ideality you have condemned the solution. Your tears for Burantoni, for every Burantoni and for Mr. Syragos, who fought academics, are crocodile. It's crocodile and it'll be crocodile if you don't vote for this bill. Kivakio will prove your interest in upgrading university prestige if you do not vote for the minimum import base in the HEI. I remember you - together we went to the TV panels - which you said it was unacceptable to introduce students with a degree of '1' and '2' on the '20' scale. Isn't that what you're concerned about? Aren't you parents? Aren't you concerned about this vertical drop in university quality? Is it possible that 30% of students will never graduate? And can I tell you something? Isn't it unfair for those children who give pan-Hellenic examinations to get a 30% into universities, hold positions from those who really want them and then leave them? Is that your position? So, at last, the students must study what they want most. With your attitude you're evolving to the oldest and the oldest. There's hypocrisy in your position. After all, I would remind you that your ministers, your colleagues against Coron, have studied in foreign universities. Why have they done this? Did the Greek university for many years not manage to make its quality? Is it because your own MPs or your ministers - I do not want to go into a nomenclature, you know them - have chosen something else? The Greeks - and we are clear, ladies and gentlemen - do not want to risk any more. Our education, our children are not playing in the dice of each political gambler. And political gambling in our country had become recently. So you're at SYRIZA a force of stirring, while we're a force of progress. You are the old one, because you dream of the political pavement, the rupture for the rupture, while we envision tomorrow, not the revolution with the stones and the rifts with the destruction of the university units. We are envisioning the 21st digital century, the fourth industrial revolution, as they say - in my opinion, it is digital - and this is our revolution. Our revolution is not the stone devastation and destruction of universities to remember after more than fifty years in May of '68 again. We're talking about student liaison universities with the labour market, about an ambitious new generation. We also want private universities and we will insist on that. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill aims to build schools, build universities and not break them down. If you're really condemning the phenomena of violence and lawlessness, behold Rhodes! But if you keep on ostriching, you do take a big risk, as your Chief said. But not for the homeland and for the educational system to go ahead. The risk is purely yours, political and personal. And you know what you're risking? You risk what the whole society is saying now. Come back where you started: 3%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u669	We're continuing with Mr. Burnus. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u670	Thank you, Mr President. If something needs to be recognized for you is your ability to play in many tableaus, in the tableau of traditional right-wing pheasant, of course, which has been sealing your political presence for decades. With only one bill, you serve specific interests, the owners of colleges, do not take into account specific audiences, the fans of Chrysochoids, the nostalgics of EPE's peasants and avenge your doubts in the student movement but also in the universities, the institution, that is to say, who has always resisted you and taken society in the opposite direction to what you want to take it. You want to expel twenty-four thousand future students from the universities this year to increase the clientele of colleges after you have made sure to equilibrium professional rights IEC and universities do rattle the Constitution. At the university on the basis of import, at the IEK on the basis of a cheque. A student will not be able to study if he has ten thousand molecules, but he will be able to study if he has 10,000 euros. So much for the excellence that we all know excellence for you is nothing but the privileges of parents and prosperous ones. Forever! You are fully ideologically and politically compiling with the fake colleges, Mr.Adoni Georgiadis, even though this will devastate the provincial schools and overthrow the development and national design that included geographical spread and decentralisation of higher education. Only in the Lesvos prefecture will a reduction of 86% of the departments, five of the six departments in Mytilini and one of the departments in Lemnos. As you always punish the weakest and the poorest. Those who now do not care for you are excluded from teleworking and those who will then be excluded from a low-grade school. Even worse you do it by remorseing indegradable demagogic puppies for import ratings. So, you don't know that every school has multiple exams that they evaluate if anyone has to graduate? Don't you know that at any school isn't everyone graduating? Don't you know that within the schools is who's judged to be a graduate? You know that, but you must do a favor to your friends and insult young people. And you are so in a hurry to find customers in college owners who do not give a time margin for your miserable reforms, as all the Education Ministers do, but start from this year, now that the young people who will give full time are suffocated in small apartments with their whole family. Your vulgarity has no comparison. And like other Contoyannopoulos, ministers of another Mitsotakis - no chance at all, right? - you put Police within the universities - you all over Europe - to dodge your humble instincts of voters, nostalgic right-wing nostalgics. Even control room with tracking systems you are making, not only the students, but the teachers, the masters, and even former ministers who oppose the moment that you have taken to adapt to the tastes of the most regressive part of Greek society. The beams speak of an anti-constitutional measure, our universities' constituencies oppose and invite you to provide money for the institutions from guardians - university employees. And you have the courage to talk today about unguarded universities, when Mr Mitsotakis himself as the Minister of Administrative Reform of the Government of Samaras was the one who fired guardians of the universities that we again hired the SYRIZA government. Even POSY rejects university police, but you care more to make you "like" Nikos Mastorakis from "Facebook". Your channels praise the heroic real protests of students and teachers at the University of Bogazci in Constantinople, but silence or conquer the mobilizations of Greek students for your abhorrent, authoritarian bill and the "erdoggan" crackdown of your police. A reluctant desire is your extreme right wing, which the party has now taken you: Avenge the student movement, those who have long resisted the authoritarianism and pitifulness of your governments, whether it was EPE, either governments of apostates or of the New Democracy. You have not stopped hosting students and university, slandering our universities, recently and overrun them, mocking our academic institutions and reducing their value and huge contribution to Greek society. Symphony the University of Athens, which was placed in the class "180) of the best universities worldwide and the "Aristotle" which was placed in the place "205" worldwide. Whether you like it or not, our country was rebuilt, developed, manufactured and democratised by these Greek public universities who are so despised and starving these strange, uncomfortable and unscrupulous students who were fighting at the conventions and who were going up in their books. Our universities need not from a thousand appointed hideouts of special guards, but from a thousand university appointments. They need funding for infrastructure, research, staff, scholarships, student homes. And they ask for recognition of their importance and role and respect for the dignity of students and teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The new generation has rights to education and access to higher education, whether high or low demand. He has the right to a democratic and self-government university without the obsessions and ghosts of the Greek Right. And he'll have it! Your abortion will stay on paper until it is time for it to be permanently abolished, because this country has a Constitution, it has people who resist and sooner or later it will have the democratic governance it deserves again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, Mr Burnus, for the time. Mr Pericles Mandas will now be given the floor from the New Democracy. Mr Mouszalas, Mr Andrianos, Mr Moraitis and Mr Lambroulis will then be followed. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor. Please be within time limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u672	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is not a slashed and fragmented piece of legislation. It is part of a wider understanding of the need to change the course of our entire educational system, with a view to making it worthy of the expectations of our people. Until now, the first steps have been to upgrade school education, modernise vocational education and training and to regulate private education. The next steps are the evaluation of teachers, the strengthening of the autonomy of schools and the arrangements for higher education. The answer to the question whether this bill was necessary is simple and clear. Yes, this bill is necessary to restore the educational framework and normality to higher education. This is also the clear message of Greek society to put an end to the systematic distortion of the character of our schools and universities. But what is distortion? On the one hand eternal students and their problematic way of introducing them into higher education, and on the other, trabucism, violence, phenomena of invasiveness with a clear left ideological mark. Is eternal students a problem? Of course it is. Because, though, 80% of the candidates are being introduced into a school, but 30% is never graduating. And just these two figures show the distortion of the situation. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means writings, faculties, meals, students' meals, amphitheatres, infrastructure, staff, administrative and educational support, family and financial bleeding, which 30% of all of them are thrown into garbage. And if we take into account how many people are finally studying something they never wanted, but it happened to them, the mess is getting even bigger. Is it problematic how students enter higher education? Of course it is. For pupils who wrote "1", "2" or "3" in the exams cannot be introduced. These children must be led to something else in their lives. It is problematic how students enter higher education, because only half of the children go to one of their first five preferences, while many of the rest go from luck to some school. And in many of these cases, the one who wants law takes the place of what the pedagogical school wanted from the start, while the one who loves mathematics can stay out of someone who didn't go to the Polytechnic. So, what do we achieve with the changes brought about by the bill? We manage to have more conscious choices from candidate students in computers, while increasing those entering their preference school. There will now be greater interest in the completion of studies. Refill requests will be significantly reduced. We achieve the maximum activation of the institutions for the continuous modernisation of their curriculum and motivate schools so that their object is made more attractive and better related to the labour market. You will ask yourself, and what about those children who will not be introduced into universities? For these children, a new mechanism is introduced, a computerised document for their access to other training structures, based on their graduation from high school. So what do we finally achieve, ladies and gentlemen? We give young people the choice. We increase the chance of them studying what they prefer and where they want. We improve university prestige and strengthen the purely educational character of the university by indirectly removing those who should not be there. We gradually upgrade the quality of the educational work, strengthen the educational autonomy of the institutions and give each one the opportunity to formulate its own distinctive academic profile. The question now is whether it has a reformist mark, the answer is that it is reformist and has liberal features. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is a liberal thing that gives everyone a choice without exception. Liberal is everything that respects the uniqueness of each and every one of us, everything that allows talent and the inclination to thrive, bloom and advance, everything that allows good to be done better, but always in terms of social sensitivity and respect for rights. And ultimately, liberal is everything that stands against the miserable regression of the Left that deceives and degrades the most powerful, most creative parts of our society. And the truth is that in Greece of 2021 only the New Democracy Government can do these principles. However, let us also come to the second part of the bill, in order to strengthen the security of the HEIs. We hear objections to the existence and action of the police at universities, but with the abolition of the asylum of infractionality for over a year, the phenomenon of violence has not been reduced, but has not already been eliminated. A characteristic of the situation that still exists was the dean of the Athens University of Economics, who was not even denounced, but was made public by the perpetrators themselves on the Internet. The phenomena of violence must be permanently eliminated. There can be no real freedom in universities when anyone who disagrees with anything said can exercise violence. And let's not make fun of ourselves, it's a wish to gradually move on to another phase, with universities not needing the police presence. However, this will only happen after normality is firmly and permanently established in all institutions. In conclusion, I would say that we should all know that the universities do not belong to the government, neither to the university nor, of course, to the left, and not to SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The universities above and beyond all belong to the Greek people and above all must fulfil the priorities and expectations that the Greek society has accumulated for its children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u673	Thank you for the time, Mr. Manda. I also expect Mr Muzala to be in time, as were the two previous speakers. Please very much. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u674	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill which, in our view, is the ultimate point of counter-reformation at the university. We'll talk about this. I would like to say that we are talking today about the fact that the Vice-President of the European Parliament has been doomed. We're talking today when photojournalists were beaten by cops. And by sunrise, there'll be more coming out. We are talking today and I hear sober, thorny words, expressions such as "this bill takes the university to the digital age and artificial intelligence" and "E'Industrial Revolution". Where, guys, is he doing all this? Tell us a provision that upgrades the university. There's not one! As far as the digital age is concerned, it means that it turns the Great Safety Great from some of the horrors, on cameras that keep track of the entire university community and which are opposed by the Personal Data Authority and by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. But, frankly, a New Democracy MEP did not say why this bill goes on in education! Three things I'll mention. On the basis of the import base, twenty-five thousand children will be left out of the university. You don't support it anywhere. You support it in desires and indeed in desires that you interpret them side by side, Vitegenstein. You're not telling us anything. These children who will not enter the university have taken care to bring a bill where they can be architects without an import base, they will be able to have legal rights without an import base, at the "Museum American Friend Marcopoulou University Veranzero 3", semi-storey. But are we serious people here? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are your excellence the one-year single-year courses in Switzerland? Your excellence is the guitar degree in correspondence with England? What is your excellence that you are projecting today as an upgrade here? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Remove the nights. One percent of the guys working to finish high school, you're pulling it out. And you raise the university! You are punishing our people with this bill too. We will say below why all this is done, because that is what you do when you exist as a conservative party. With regard to university police today, I did not understand you, the special guard or president - I don't know what he was - who told the committee that 20% of society is in illness and that 20% of the special guards will be in the university police, so that he can tell his mother that is poor: 'Mom, this morning I spent in medicine'? Are you going to drive us crazy? The police? There is no state in Europe doing this since 1088 founded the University of Bologna. In one way or another, such intervention shall be prohibited either nationally or legally regulated. The junta did it here in Greece and you institutions now. And you're proud of it because it upgrades the studies! All right, can I tell you something? We will listen to you very carefully, because the truth is that we do not want to go to 3%, but we want to become a government. But universities are at 3% of the world's best. And you're the one who swears! Everyone you came here to find. You talked about drugs, prostitution, wood, violence. Are these our universities? I'd like to tell you something about disciplinarys. It's unbelievable what you're doing. These scientists who come out every day on television - I refer to Greeks abroad, who are guided by states and advisors to the World Health Organisation for the Pandemic, I do not want to say the names - would not have finished the university since the decoy they made, from the duches they took when they were students and went down to the amphitheaters, mobilisations and demonstrations. You would have deleted them! University professors abroad, university professors here, you would have deleted them! What do you mean by noise pollution? I mean, if DPRK organises a poetic night and start singing "A and DPRK" and "DPRK," will you arrest them? What exactly are you going to do? Where's that thing going? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Slander, so you can pass the suppression. I'll say something very quickly, because the time really is a little bit short. You have a tradition of hatred for the people's education. In 1901 in "Evangelicals" your ancestors said "...gods, Slavs, dedicated the Patriarch, five dead in demonstrations". After twenty or fifty years, that's what they'll say about you. In 1917, Educational Reformation, Venizelos: "The High Mountains" of Zacharia Papantoniou, which we read today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to do this a little bit, and I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u675	I would ask you to conclude like all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u676	I shall conclude, Mr President. He came in, entered the elementary, Triandria of Educational Group with French, Delmuzo and Triantafylides. In 1920 your ancestors came and abolished them. Bolshevik class. Zachariah Papantoniou despised, says, the great ideals. They said "Let those responsible be criminally persecuted", "hot the city's reading books." It's your tradition. You don't want people to be shaped, except for your clique.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u677	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u678	I'm done. I'm just going to mention two other elements from your story. The school aprons were established in 1876 and the bracelet. Repeated 1964 on Georgios Papandreou. Read in the papers what you were saying at the time. It was abolished, and you thought the youth was being corrupted. The apron was removed in 1982 by Veryvakis and you thought the girls were being smashed and corrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u679	Come on, Mr. Colleague, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u680	Ladies and gentlemen, as they speak of these Members of your delegation then, they will speak of you after a few years. And that won't pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u681	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u682	And when we read the Antigone, you're with Cretan. We're with Antigone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u683	Mr. Andrianos has the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be within time, please very much. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u684	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will avoid commenting on my fellow Member's misgivings, because we have to look forward, look at tomorrow, look at the future of our children and how to do better than do these recursions, which I do not think add anything and accuse a party that has contributed and restored democracy, Mr Colleague, in 1974 and I think we all taste its fruits. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the leadership of the Ministry of Education is consistently and responsibly moving towards the government's great reform policy and to this crucial area of education. I would remind you of the large educational bill in June, in which I was privileged to be the major majority rapporteur. I still remind you of the most recent draft law on vocational education, which, with its forecasts, contributes substantially so that this valuable tool can be made out of a need solution for a few, conscious choice for many. Now, at the same wavelengths as this bill, three necessary and overripe changes in higher education are being introduced. The minimum import base, reasonable graduation time limits and, of course, measures to ensure practical academic freedom and legitimacy within the university space. These three main pillars of the bill, despite the opposite efforts of counter-population, no longer have an ideological character in our society. They are reasonable, they are self-evident practical predictions that respond to existing, chronological and pressing issues. It is, of course, a distortion of the introduction into schools of the highest educational establishments of candidates who wrote '3' or '4' to '20', and we must also ensure that these children have the best choices for their career through vocational education and training and with all other appropriate means and policies. However, writing - for example - children in mathematics with grades below the basis of mathematics in the introductory examinations does not primarily help these children to complete their studies successfully. This is one of the main reasons why the large rate of non-integration of studies in these schools, particularly in regional university institutions. It is therefore of particular importance that the departments themselves will now have reason to determine the conditions for the introduction of the candidates. In addition, it is of particular importance that a parallel computerised data sheet should be submitted to a public institution which supports children's alternatives and once again underlines the Government's willingness to substantially upgrade vocational training. Here we enter the second crucial pillar of the bill, the time limit for completing the studies. It is, of course, essential that there should be provisions - which include the bill - for students who face objective criteria imposing them on time other priorities. The crucial thing, however, is that these objective reasons do not come up with long-term obstacles which, as well as the planning of schools, make it difficult and keep the so-called 'eternal' students in a transient situation virtually outside the educational process and the labour market. Finally, with regard to the third pillar of the bill, the measures to ensure academic freedom and legitimacy in university spaces, I believe that no one will argue that we would all prefer this not to be necessary. We do not, however, live in any utopia, but in a very specific reality, where the phenomena of violence and lawlessness are unfortunately not foreign to at least certain universities. After all, your Chief, Mr. Tsipras himself, admitted this in his recent TV interview, bringing as an example the University of Economics. He said that today there cannot be an exchange of views freely without the organisers and the interlocutors at risk. It is clear, therefore, that invoking an incomprehensible exception is not enough to tolerate as a society even an attempt to rape or beating in a university space, even a perpetual teacher, even a disaster of laboratory equipment or public property paid by the taxes of Greek households. I have already pointed out that these provisions of the bill under discussion no longer have an ideological colouring in society. It welcomes them a wide-ranging social majority with ideological advances and election options. It is also characteristic that, as the polls show, a very large part of even the voters of the left-wing parties support these three measures, considering them to be self-evident. And this horizontal social alliance for self-evidently is something that all of us in this Chamber should take it very seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, society shows the way. Greeks and Greeks demand that the country finally move forward. They demand a state of modern and effective, bourgeoisie to the citizen and not its strength, with quality public education and health, safely for all. So, in view of this universal demand for seriousness, responsibility and efficiency, they do not have any idea and decency in the past, they do not have reasonable grounds to sacrifice the rights of many in the organized interests of the few. Our children and parents deserve and deserve quality education, universities that have all the institutional, material and moral conditions to highlight the already existing islands of excellence, opportunities for vocational training that act as powerful passports, advances and offers to society as a whole. So all of us have to take responsibility for us. Society can't wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u685	We thank Mr Andriano for the time and I would ask the next speaker not to exceed the time. Mr Mauritius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u686	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, people are changing at a speed of light. The changes that are taking place around the world are changes that no one has expected, but unfortunately we have a government that is in no way able to see. The pandemic crisis has shown the need to build a world based on cooperation, solidarity and the social state, of course, with health as a priority. The coronary hit the economies and societies worldwide, but also highlighted the enormous weaknesses of a model that has prevailed over the last decades, the well-known neoliberal model. So at a time when the leaders of the Western world, and not only, are moving in this direction, when the world is appalling, thinking, cooperating and planning, you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are isolating and isolating the country as well. You are staying outside the great dialogue, outside the developments, against the great change that comes. So while your neoliberal model has been falling apart - with the Balkan variant, of course, which you are relying - on, enclosed in your ideals for eighteen months, if you do something, it is to attack everything in public. Dissolve every casting of the social state. You all remember that you had changes to the health sector for privatization. You are dealing with politics as 'businesses' and I could bring other examples. But in this design, in no way could the space of education be in your sights. For eighteen months you have been consciously attacking public education, consciously attacking the Greek university and entering this bill for a single purpose: To serve the interests of colleges, the interests of misconduct, to increase their clientele, to reduce the number of importers, to denounce the regional universities that you will launch the closure. Of course, as if that were not enough, do we read in the last few days that the things of which you do not close? You'll turn them into three-year-old technical schools. At the same time, I would like to remind you that you, your Government, have deceived the professional rights of graduates of the Greek public universities with graduates of three years of dubious quality colleges, with an anti-constitutional regulation. It is clear that your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is exacerbating inequalities. Your plan is clear: It is a great gift to private education, which is one of your main donors. You just stuck the part of the police rule in this bill, because you should be petting and justifying yourself at your far right audience. All these days, many colleagues from all parties have spoken about the great discrimination of Greek universities worldwide. They have brought too many examples and I do not want to go into the process to repeat them. You're the ones who shut up. They don't fit in any way, of course, in your account. Not only do you keep quiet and do not mention them, but you consciously nullify the value of the Greek university. You claim it and you claim it with a bill that you say it is reformist - which in no case is - that you want a better picture of the Greek universities and present this bill - if possible! - as a reform. It's cut. There is no sign of reform of this bill. Because if you wanted reform and better universities, as you say, you would not have reduced their resources for the first time after 2016 in the 2021 budget, where the memorials are over and you had no intervention from anywhere. At the same time you are promoting their subscribing, when the proportion of teachers/students is the worst in Europe, and that is not what we are saying, but EUROSTAT says so. All of this and much more, when the Greek family experience pandemic, difficulties, insecurity and fear. To build the myth of the depreciation of the Greek university, you certainly throw the ball on the platform. You are looking to find an alibi, you are exploiting individual cases of imported violence to tell us that this is the normality of the Greek university and that is how you bring a thousand special guards. Legislation electronic security systems and bring cameras to the amphitheaters. At a time when the fighters made you two and three proposals to leave the difficult position, you create conditions of police rule. To make it clear: We're not against security. But another guardian of another police rule. About 20 to 30 million will be the payroll of these special guards, when our universities today need teachers, administrative staff, research resources. There are, of course, other costs - I do not want to mention - which are from the Special Report on Poverty and Research, the PPE. So you're getting money from research to give it to university guard. So say it clearly. For you, policing is more worthy than research. For you, policing is more worthy than producing knowledge. You're better at policing than strengthening our teachers and researchers. You have targeted the Greek university while the Greeks who took this degree in their own hands are running businesses today, making glamorous careers and you are deceiving the Greek university every day. The indicators of the clock, however, will not turn back decades in those dark times of fear and police rule, no matter how much you want. We will not allow everything to collapse into a state of silence, to sink into the dark quietly. The government resists progress. He's trying to split, turn against each other and turn the river back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ten seconds, Mr. President. Unfortunately for you and fortunately for the country itself, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the river has never been able to turn it back. Those who have gone to do with the natural flow of the world, which is progress, have forgotten from history itself, from society itself. While freedom and democracy are being put in place, we will be hard on these policies. We are fighting for the public university and we would suggest that at this very difficult time to show confidence in our children, to show confidence in the new generation of our country, which is its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u687	We will continue with Mr. Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece. Then Mrs Alexopoulou from New Democracy and Mrs Bagena from SYRIZA are followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u688	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a bill that adds another link to the long chain of reactionary changes that take place over time in higher education by all governments. These are the ones that have gradually implemented and implemented the commonly accepted choices among all the other parties and guidelines of the European Union, satisfying the requirements of the chapter on higher education. On the basis of this strategy, the business activity of higher education is promoted, the evaluation with market criteria, the decoupling of the diploma by profession, the categorisation of diplomas and divisions, etc. Target? The radical change in the nature, structure and role of the university, according to the model of the university-enterprise that the capitalist economy really needs. At the same time, this adjustment is a term of extortion in terms of survival even of the current urban university and on the basis of this necessity we have, firstly, the creation of strong structures in higher education - see mergers - to exploit economies of scale, that is to say, a reduction in costs with an increase in efficiency, so that they can bear the burden of capitalist growth and be able to relate to foreign and local monopolies - the famous extroversion - but also with flexibility, which is why mobilisation is needed within them. Secondly, we have set up criteria with which universities are being developed today, new curriculum programmes are being designed and resources are being channelled into research, such as: firstly, decommissioning from state funding, applying tuition fees and, above all, developing business initiatives by its members. Secondly, diversification and flexibility in the internal structures of universities, operating different levels of study departments and programmes, in line with market needs and available funding. Thirdly, focusing on innovation, the so widely advertised, but not necessarily the same as the important research discovery, but the transfer of the research results where? In the market arena, which finally decides on their fate. New knowledge, i.e. innovation, to create new research opportunities, to gain competitive advantages of a company or industry against others and not to serve the modern and future needs of society. So the business university is not just a connection to the market, but is a key player. It does not simply produce new knowledge, but creates new markets. It is not just training the scientific, technical, administrative staff who will serve the large businesses and the state machine, but training individual people who perceive themselves as a product that must be forged under their own responsibility, individual responsibility, on the market. Anyone who well-meaning could ask, for example, whether it is wrong to create a university's commercial value or whether it is wrong to train competitive workers ready to be involved in the market, we call on him to think: The market is identical to society? Is the needs of an enterprise, a business sector, one and the same with social needs? Is the expected profit margin a secure criterion of whether funds, i.e. social resources, should be channelled to one or the other scientific area or field? Why, instead of reducing working time, does technological progress lead to an increase in unemployment? Why, despite the impressive scientific achievements of our time, are socially important, such as issues relating to prevention, but all social activity, medicine, civil protection and so on, while research production often suffers from degenerative phenomena, such as non-scientific research and methodology? And precisely the university-enterprise, which the government seeks to safeguard through the intensity of repression and various monitoring mechanisms, is foreign to the satisfaction of social needs. And the foreigner it becomes the more they seek to protect it from youth collective questioning and claiming. That is why students, teachers, parents, students along with the labour movement fight, fight, claim what they objectively can have. Because the wealth that today exists can provide them with the right equipment for knowledge, the right terms to work. And it is these criteria that show on what terms young people could study, work and live today. Such conditions are the only condition for work, as is the need for professional practice, knowledge, which is a matter of an entire life - does not stop by obtaining the degree - the state, therefore, guaranteeing additional and free training, postgraduate qualifications, etc., have the right to work, to all the subjects selected, with all the rights that meet modern needs. Relevant, state funding for universities to be able to fully operate with infrastructure, equipment, the necessary educational, auxiliary staff. So student claims, the unity they can build through the student clubs with the labour movement, with their own criteria and needs, can open them up streets to study today better, to upgrade their studies and their own lives. On this road of struggle to break into isolation the policy that sacrifices the lives and rights of young people and workers, the JRC and the JRC were, is and will be in the front line.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u689	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis for his time. Here comes Mrs Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy and then Ms. Vagea.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u690	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, all those who have lived in the Greek University in our student years understand that the bill of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which we are debating today, is part of an obsolete framework of operation, both as regards the introduction to higher education and the upgrading of the academic environment. In my opinion, it is another station in the country's effort to restore normality in key aspects of higher education. Following the restoration of democracy and with a view to preventing the free movement of ideas and the development of scientific thought, a strong and necessary shield was established in the universities. Unfortunately, in the years that followed, our political system has shown discomfort in moving forward decisively into necessary reforms. With our many years of tolerance to arbitraryness, we have allowed our universities to become asylum seekers of infraction and lawlessness. We have created 'eternal' students, without interest in their subject matter and an incentive to obtain a title. We have seen bases of introduction that do not honor the validity of higher education. We have lived close to the unrestricted infraction and the provocativeness of minority groups. I will never forget, after too many hours of work at the university, I have to go down with my teacher then Mr. Stavros Anagnostopoulos to his car so I won't be in danger. As the majority of students and members of the academic community supported over time it is time to institutionalise, putting a definitive end to multiannual claws that keep our universities anchored in yesterday. This bill is effectively faced with chronic pathogens and distortions with specific interventions. The minimum import base first ensures that importers have the necessary qualifications and conditions for the successful study and completion of their studies. It is, I think, very obvious that extremely low scores of the 2 and 3 class do not characterize the diligent students. Moreover, the introduction to the IOIs with such low degrees is defamation for our institutions themselves and has an impact on their overall image. The new method of calculating the basis for the introduction allows for the access to schools of convenience or difficulty. Since the basis will be linked to the overall performance of all the persons examined, the import system of course becomes more fair. By giving the right to define the basis for admission by the school itself, we strengthen the autonomy of the institutions and enable them to define their particular academic style. We trust the departments of the Greek universities and we are sure they can do their job well. We have recently demonstrated this with previous bills when, for example, we allowed the departments themselves to draw up foreign language programmes. With the new process of completing the computer, both selection phases are encouraged more conscious choices of academic direction and thus more interest in assimilating the subject of the studies. Imports into the university may not be a product of luck or 'I accidentally passed'. It should be the result of mature selection and reading, and only in this way can it lead to a successful student course. Together with parallel computers, the alternatives are increasing and young Greeks are being led to study closer to their priorities, gradients and skills and thus building up the future they really want. In this way, there is an incentive and will to speed up the completion of studies and to get out of the labour market. Greece, more than ever, needs trained graduates and diplomats who will have confidence in their powers, love for their work and contribute directly to the recovery of the Greek economy. In this respect, it is also the establishment of the maximum curriculum which solves the problem of 'eternal' students, an issue which is aroused by the Greek universities, wasting both material and human resources, and which makes it difficult for them to rise in international rankings. And don't spill crocodile tears for the students we're supposed to throw away from the universities. All the diligent students will have a place in higher education. Of course, social criteria will be taken into account. Of course, there will be care for special cases of working students. But it is incomprehensible that one in three Greek students should not complete his studies and we should hide behind our finger and do that we consider that normal. It is not possible that so many governments have not touched this huge problem for so many years. Let me add this. Higher education, of course, but also vocational education and training in technical occupations, are equally important and profitable career options. Many undergraduate unemployed would have a different degree in the most creative years of their lives, if we had long been sure to have additional professional rehabilitation possibilities, through other roads, more technical and more practical. Ladies and gentlemen, with responsibility for society, the consistency of words and works and the strong political will the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is moving on to another bold legislative initiative to restore the legitimacy of our country's HEIs. In Greece, university asylum has been so eroded as a concept that, for years, instead of protecting academic freedom and freedom of expression, it protects crime and immunity. By allowing the state to finally exercise all its powers under the law and at the premises of the HEIs, by law of 2019, we took the first important step. Moreover, by introducing controlled entry to institutions, the establishment of competent administrative structures and the establishment of a Group for the Protection of Universities, we move towards the effective treatment of infractionality in any manifestation of academic life. The policing of university institutions is not an end in itself. I wish we didn't need the Greek police at the universities, and we'd all feel safe in them. But the presence of the University Institutions Protection Group will ensure the protection of students and members of the academic community from violations and we will certainly all feel safer. From my years in the PPP - NCI and before, we have been firmly standing towards all those who, in their political attitude, gave and alibi to lawlessness and insanity. We remain consistent and firm in our views and in what we believed and fought from our student years. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must be very jealous of the young people of DPRK. All day and yesterday you have something wrong to say about the first largest youth in our country, which has been considered once a year since 1976 with elections. Once a year students make her first choice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u691	Especially for her posters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u692	And for the parties!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u693	Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The next speaker is Ms. Anna Vaguena.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u694	Because I was a student too, I'm glad to get up to the Step after a new girl. I shall refer to my own study years, my colleague. A little different from yours, but I'll be talking about. But because I believe that our first task here in Parliament is to give a voice, our own voice, to those who are out in society and those who brought us here, I will first refer to a joint communication from the associations of the University of Thessaly on the promotion of policing by university institutions. It says at the beginning of the announcement: "We express our opposition to the Greek Government's creation of special bodies of the Hellenic Police with responsibility for the exercise of police duties within the premises of the IOIs. We believe that the protection of university institutions cannot be of a police nature and be provided by special bodies within the Greek Police, the Ministry of Citizen Protection or any other body, but must be organised by the university itself in the context of its full self-management." That's what the announcement of the workers' clubs at the University of Thessaly says, in the area that is my special homeland and I'm elected. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, honourable Member Anna Vageias - Kilaidonis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you don't hear all that, no. By having your self-reliance you are excluded from the universities about twenty thousand students to send them directly to private colleges. Besides, you work for them. We've seen it, not just in this bill, in the parallel bills you bring. You don't listen to them and bring the police to the universities, envying Erdogan's glory. Good for you! Only welded wire do not put around the universities, make them camps. Your bill comes the electronic mole. That's what it's called, no matter how much you're trying to say differently. We're gonna nostalg the mole we had in our generation. We had Typhoon in Larissa, who was following us on a bike, fifteen - sixteen years old, from high school at home, and we knew him, we greeted him at night. We said "Hello, Trees" and I went into my house. The kids will nostalgic the Tree. They will nostalgic even the "Security Faculty", which was in the dictatorship, my colleague, a young student, who is so proud of you. So we lived the junta. I was a law student, when the dictatorship took place, in the second year, and had to leave my studies at the University of Athens because of my left-wing opinions. I was in Athens Law. So I am now an eternal student. I've never finished. How many like me may have been forced for such reasons to stop their studies and not to continue. We and many like me democratic citizens are creeping around with this bill, believe me. We're really creeping out. In 1969, where the police were at the universities, they were junta, and in 1969 I stopped my studies in law for that reason, Mr. Syrigos. What to do! I'm a mother, I've got two kids, they're not going to college now, they're older, but if I had kids now who were in college, I wouldn't want my kids to go to a police campus, Mr. Syrigos. I wouldn't. I would like my children to have the maturity to choose themselves and to be protected and to become mature citizens within universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u695	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u696	Please. To be mature citizens, to choose children alone, because then they will also become mature students and mature citizens, just then. Don't be afraid of freedom. Freedom has not harmed anyone. No, don't be afraid of her, oppression and undemocraticism hurt. She creates contributory people who are bad for themselves and for the whole. People who grow up with freedom and democracy usually, most of the time, become healthy and proper citizens. Don't be afraid of them. As for the violation of universities and the drugs you're telling us that because of them you're bringing the police, I'm sorry Mr. Economou left. I'm bringing him fresh news from my neighborhood. I, you know, when I'm in Athens, I've said it several times - at the silk mill. I'm bringing you fresh news. There to see offense and drugs. Why are you swinging your head? Is this irrelevant? These drugs, who's going after them? When will he come after them? You've never been after them. Let's pay some attention to the center of Athens for drugs. This morning, coming out of my house, in front of my eyes, a drug dealer took the dose out of the mouth, under the tongue and gave it to a user and took the money in front of our eyes. Bring us special guards there, too. We don't mind. And we don't care what color they're gonna wear and how you tell them and whether they're in blue clothes. Don't cover behind this. That's not why. If you want to hit the drugs, you'd hit them all over Athens. But there's too much money behind the drugs. That's a pretext for bringing the police to the universities. I'm still telling you, don't be afraid of freedom. Freedom creates mature citizens. Repression creates problematic citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u697	Thank you for your time. Mr. Paschalides has the floor. Please, Mr. Colleague, be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u698	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill there are major changes aimed at upgrading education, so as to become the main lever of growth in Greece, since education is considered to be one of the main instruments for citizens to gain skills and knowledge necessary to meet the new challenges and uncertainty caused by rapid developments worldwide. Thus, following the adoption of the draft law on the modernisation of the educational system of all levels of public education and the draft law on the modernisation of the operation of private schools, the time has come for the draft law on the upgrading of higher education, an upgrade that concerns not only the quality of the education provided in universities, but more importantly, an upgrade on the working conditions of the private schools, so that they can no longer operate unfetteredly, in conditions of real freedom and security. The time has finally come to protect our universities from the violent action of several troubled groups on the basis of an integrated protection and security plan, as I will analyse it below. The first articles of the draft law introduce arrangements concerning the establishment of a minimum import base, which is not defined in an absolute number, but from each section separately. In addition, with the aim of encouraging unconscious choices to supplement the computerised form, two phases of submission of computerised forms are envisaged. In particular, the first-phase computer form shall be submitted by the candidates who participated in the pan-Hellenic examinations with the possibility of selecting a specific number of schools, departments or introductory directions from those in which they have access from their scientific field, while those who have not been introduced into the first phase without a restriction of choices and for the remaining positions. In addition, this draft law now sets a time limit for students, which will apply to new entrants, while special attention is paid to students for whom there is a good health ratio in their own or relatives. I will now go to the most important point in the bill, which concerns improving the conditions of the academic environment in terms of the safety of students, workers and the quality of the facilities themselves, which are the usual victims of the cruelty of the brains. This bill is a bill of common sense, as was rightly described by the Minister of Education, Mrs. Kerameou, because it is indeed common sense that we should have our universities safe and at the same time free, that our students can move freely without fear and anxiety, particularly during the nights when university spaces become a refuge for all kinds of evils. Unfortunately, in recent years, our universities have become the prerogative of the appetites of anyone who wants to act illegally. And the attempt to control through private companies has proved to be a failure. That is why a series of regulations are introduced which only aim to create a sense of security in university spaces. In particular, each HEI is recommended to provide an independent service entitled ‘Security Unit, with a mission to implement and evaluate security and security policy and security measures within the premises of the IITs’, which is directly subject to the dean of the HEI. In addition, each HRP shall be composed of a Committee on Security and Defence of the HR with a two-year term of office. The purpose of this Committee is to submit recommendations to the relevant bodies for the formulation and implementation of security and security policy. In addition, there will be mandatory system of controlled access and university towns of HEIs will be subject to a perimeter safety fence, and if it is not possible to apply the system of controlled access to the external premises of the HEI, by reasoned decision of the senator, the system of controlled access will be mandatory in interior spaces, such as buildings and infrastructures. The latest and most important measure is the establishment of groups to protect university institutions made up of members of the specially trained group of EL.A., which will work with the dean and the rector of each HEI, with the aim of combating the phenomenon of violence and committing unlawful acts within the university spaces. Minister, we are with you, as with you is the whole of the Greek citizens who have been designated by relief of this bill, because they can no longer stand to see this lawlessness and violence in the Greek universities. And know that with you is the vast majority of students. And if some rush to refer to the marches, which are known to all incitements, all I would advise them is to pay attention, because such actions are all they can do is expose our youth to terrible dangers. The time has finally come when the law will be applied outright, because they do not exist on Greek territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u699	Thank you, Mr. Pascalides, for the time. Mrs. Kallipe Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA. Please, be within time, like the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u700	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is the toughest, classic and authoritarian the government has presented in the field of education. You have brought to Parliament many problematic and undemocratic bills. The competition in this struggle for the degradation of public education is great. I would remind you that we have two legislative articles that have increased the number of students by part of a pandemic, bills which fully incorporate the positions of the owners of large private schools, who, moreover, have proudly admitted that they have financed New Democracy, provisions that have been equivalent to the professional rights of graduates of colleges with those of public universities, and, finally, recent experience with the abolition of public and free vocational education. The government, however, surpassed itself with today’s bill. A week's consultation, within the peak of the third wave, with universities closed down, brought the most anti-grassroots bill with the introduction of the base, the subsequent exclusion of thousands of candidates from public education institutions and the closure of dozens of sections throughout the territory. I would remind you that on 13 January you announced with the Minister for Civil Protection the main provisions of the bill. In less than a month, you've changed the map for decades. You close departments, exclude thousands of students from the third grade a few months before their examination, while putting the police at universities, disciplinary provisions for students and effectively abolishing the independence of the institutions. The authoritarian neoliberalism in practice: Police, repression, surveillance and at the same time shrinking public education and serving private colleges with a new major clientele since August. At the time when the Greek universities take international measurements on the ranking with the world's best universities, the government, instead of further strengthening them with recruitment and funding, depreciates them, leads them to dramatically shrinking and operates once again as a middle-end interest. With the new import system we will have between 25% and 40% reduction in admissions to universities from the next pan-Hellenic examinations. In other words, our children, who are reading and fighting in very difficult conditions, with a large percentage not having access to telematics because of the Ministry's uncertainty, will see that they are excluded in a large percentage from the universities. The Minister told us that this development is not bad, saying that we have a high percentage of students in Greece compared to the general population compared to the European Union. It considers, in other words, that studying is a problem, an anachronism, an inappropriateness that must be stopped and not a social acquis, a life experience, which increases the level of knowledge and representations of young people. Let each one take his own conclusions. I will move on to something more specific in order to make the class and violent dimension of this new measure even more noticeable. I will make a special reference to the University of Western Macedonia, an academic institution that is decorating our area with teachers, students and administrative staff, a university with international scope, scientific parchment and great research work. Like all regional institutions, it has a lower base for importing than centrally because the crisis involves the selection criteria for new entrants, mainly geographically and economically. However, at all other levels, such as academics, the origin of postgraduate students, the labour market, scientific publications, etc., is in the front line. In fact, in the words at least, and you have proclaimed it as the main pillar of the master plan for the energy transition at the same time as you turn it off, you are underfinanced and, in the end, you are downgrading it because, according to initial calculations, the first-year students of the current year would be, if the new system were in force for Kosani instead of a thousand seven hundred seventeen hundred and twenty-three, for Florida four hundred eighteen out of six hundred twenty-eight, for Kastoria four hundred and fifteen-eighteen out of four hundred nineteen and for Grevena eighteen out of four hundred sixteen hundred. This will be the reality in a few months' time in western Macedonia. Even though the leaks say you are mitigating the loss by introducing exceptions for certain regional universities, the reality is one: The University of Western Macedonia, like the whole region, because of the violent famine, will be significantly degraded next day compared to today. The New Democracy Government is responsible for this development, which goes ahead with its destructive work at the same time as its local executives are left undisturbed, treacherous and begging for a special regime, not reacting to central instru­ments, consenting or even worse in support of defiance of the region and the university by saying that they are provisions in the right direction. Let the citizens of the Kozani regional unit draw their conclusions. I come back to the general context. The Minister did not reply to us about the fact that private colleges do not require a basis of ten or a minimum of introduction. No basis is required in general. All it takes is a sufficient R1 to pay the tuition fees or recourse to a student loan from the poorest to create a student debt in Greece, as is the case internationally in the hard neoliberal economies. I close with the subject of the university police, where the government for communication reasons is magnifying a problem of well-being in a few universities in Athens and Thessaloniki and instead of dealing with the existing tools, what is it doing? It creates a body of thirty policemen with a very large budget against the views of the academic community, the police, and even many conservatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Six second generation: Police everywhere for funding, recruitment of teachers and executives. We have seen it today with the unreasonable use of violence in the academic community. Finally, I would like to say that the current government is the first in Greece, two hundred years after the Revolution of 1821, which closes university departments instead of opening, prosecuting students and depriving local communities of an important development lever. But it's not the first government to put the police in the universities. There were other protagonists in this spectacular work. You took your place in history, like those who vote with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u701	Thank you. We continue Mrs Agathopoulos from SYRIZA and then Mr Kyranakis. Here, Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u702	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are preparing for a third universal lockdown, the government has brought to the vote a bill that has caused a massive number of reactions and demonstrations. The only one responsible for these demonstrations these days is the government and no one else and the bill that you bring and no urgency had this bill to come under these circumstances to the House. Your precursor, however, once again proves that you have seen the pandemic crisis as an opportunity to pass a number of anti-democratic provisions affecting human rights and freedoms, but also a series of disastrous arrangements and employment and education issues. This bill is a direct threat to the democratic functioning of universities. The fingers measured in one hand of violence and illegality at universities have brought them to a great deal of attention and made them a Trojan Horse of your Government to destroy the self-interest of universities and put the police in them as well. Many of your Members and the Minister yesterday, and today without any sign of shame, are caring for the Greek universities from this Stepma as a man of iniquity that has nothing to do with reality and as many as we have studied in them we know very well. Our country has one of the best public universities in the world, but the government and Mrs.Keramea do not care about that. Its aim from the first day it took place was to downgrade and depreciate Greek universities and reduce the number of importers by making another big gift to private colleges. Anti-Police Police at the universities is not currently SYRIZA and Anti-Policy, but also the proponents in their overwhelming majority, young people and students who have protested massively these days and who have beaten them down wildly and historically from the New Democracy. I mention Mr. Souflia, Mr. Fortsakis, Mr. Spiliotopoulos, Mr. Kyrchos. Since the abolition of the asylum you have voted for failed, as you admit, to exalt the universities, you said to spend some 30 million more on the recruitment of thirty special guards, who will also be recruited and will not speak to the university authorities, but to the hierarchy of EL.AS. At the same time, you have cut this year's budget for education and while universities at the moment have an absolute need for teaching staff. As if that were not enough, you set up a Control and Download Center with cameras and cameras that will be placed in each amphitheater, with a view to being constantly open. The data protection authority has expressed by letter of objection to this and other points, but you do not seem to be interested. The most important thing you do with this bill, however, is that you reduce the number of importers in the Greek universities, which is also publicly admitted by Mrs Keramea, of course. Another class distinction to the detriment of the lowest social classes, particularly at the expense of children who have no resources to pay for care. It is obvious that you are consciously seeking to exacerbate social and educational inequalities. In the 'Venus', too, those who are late to finish their schools. Do you think that many of them work at the same time, why do their families have to survive? OME study presented to you at committee meetings shows that about 30% of younger students in relation to last year will enter the Greek universities with the new system. More than twenty thousand students will be left out. Are you questioning her, too, as you question SYRIZA's study? Those students who will stay out of them are destined for potential customers in impassable colleges, without physical import bases and examinations. You have earlier made the colleges a reference to professional rights with public universities. All of this still has one serious effect, to hurt the regional mainstream universities and to close several sections throughout Greece, which today, apart from educational purposes, also fulfil developmental purposes for the Greek province. I am well aware of the case of the Department of Creative Design and Clothing of the International University based in Kilkis, which has been trying to close since 2013. Then it was still T.I.E. With the famous "Athena" project you tried to lower the professional rights of his graduates by changing his name and making it from a Department of Design and Clothing to a Department of Prep and Textiles. All of this, while it was the design that made it unique in its kind and reserved professional rights to its graduates, who are noted - because that is what you are interested in, from what you say, at least in the words that is - it has very good absorption in the labour market and the connection of this school to the labour market is very effective. Then, in 2013, we managed with coordinated efforts of our own, students and teachers to rescue the professional rights of his graduates and then, in the government of SYRIZA, we managed to house it in the private building that waited for years and upgraded it by making it part of the International University. We have upgraded it by action, not by words, or by wishing. With the arrangements that you promote with this bill and the section of Kilkis together with other parts of the region are led to mathematical closure, and indeed, at a time when local societies and local economies have more need than ever of any assistance can be given to them to survive small and medium-sized professionals and students. Students are a development factor for local economies and you know that very well, I hope. So what purpose, today, serves to close university departments in small provincial cities? You have to tell us that. Or else, tell us how you intend to support them. We, as SYRIZA, do not want these sections to be closed and have proved it in practice in the previous period. It is your turn to prove that you are not only supporting the great private interests of colleges, but you are also interested in local economies, but especially for thousands of children who have a dream of studying in their country publicly and free of charge, as provided for in our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u703	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr. Kyranakis and immediately after Mrs. Auger.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u704	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think that looking back at this debate after a number of years, historically it will be one of the parliamentary debates that I think will not happen again. Because we already see the Opposition as a whole, with some exceptions, already shifted from positions it has been supporting for decades. We see, for example, Mr Philly, in relation to the time when you were government, a clear position in favour of safety at universities, even with the proposal you made for private security companies. I must admit that I would never expect SYRIZA, by the mouth of the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to speak for security yesterday with a private security company. In any case, it is good to agree that all these incidents of violence, which we have seen, are condemned by all of us and that none of us wants them. In the past, we even saw left-wing officials, former left-wing ministers, taking part in occupations, taking part in violence, encouraging them, organizing them and defending them politically. I think it is time almost everyone in this Chamber to move forward and agree that, in a way of alpha or beta, there will at least be security, that a teacher who says self-evident to some non-university, does not vandalize the public space that a taxpayer pays with his money, will not be beaten, he will not be afraid of his safety, as a student will not be afraid of going to his lessons normally or to be involved in a discussion of his choice. So let's see who this student is, the first year of 2021. He's a child who's grown substantially deep into the crisis. His school has been practically over this decade, which has been so difficult for Greece. He's been able to go to the university of his choice. Most have succeeded to some extent their dream and those who haven't made their first choice have entered a university. And they see friends or acquaintances who have an economic comfort from their family to go abroad, to better universities in England, America, Europe or elsewhere. What does a leading foreign university offer? It offers clean facilities. It offers modern programs. It offers teachers - personalities, who are paid vigilantly to teach in these universities. He is offered an interface with leading businesses in which he can find a job tomorrow. He is given a better future. We, with what we are doing, with the bill that we are finally bringing and which is an outstanding one from the past, try - and we will try to achieve its implementation - our own universities, for which the Greek state has chosen to tax the Greek citizen, for decades to have given billions of euros to free education, a free education to the student who pays it, someone puts his hand in the pocket so that any student can study for free, have a greater value. I think it does not mean, in the year 2021, that something needs to be changed, that our university should be better than it is today and possibly better than it is abroad. Therefore, we must show respect for the billions paid by Greek taxpayers over the years and which have been called upon to pay every time left bullies enter, vandalize, destroy, paint and take computers and all that we see in the media. He puts his hand back in the pocket every month, every time we have a disaster. To agree that everyone cannot enter with the same way I want at a university simply to organize the'social' of the struggle by meaning of an occupation or, in the past, a drug trade, as we saw in the ASEAN. We must agree on this and finally move on. Because to the Greek student and to any student who comes to Greece for a good university, a young child who dreams and wants to achieve a great professional career starting from a Greek public university paid by the taxpayer, we must prepare him with a proper consistent and short course of studies and give him a degree of value in order to compete pan-Europeanly if not worldwide, with the young people of the other countries who currently have better universities for us. That's why it's a bill that reduces inequality. That is why it is a bill that helps young children who do not have financial comfort, such as some former SYRIZA ministers, to go abroad by paying tuition fees to foreign universities. Children who do not have the financial comfort of putting their hand in the pocket helps them to have a degree of greater value. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the main message, I think, of this bill. What have you done these days? Three times you went out on the street with people on a military-type party who pretended to be the students with crandrons, flags and helmets, who presented themselves as a student movement. Three times you went out on the street by thousands, breaking the measures. What did you manage to close down the business, the retail trade and the schools with your own actions because they increased cases too much? What did you do? Make the New Democracy even more determined to remain in its place, to be consistent with the promise made to the Greek people and to implement this commitment. To implement her program for a better university. I close, Mr President, by saying that for all of us in university years, our students, were our best years. And I would like us all to fight together so that the student of the next generations is the memory of the students to be the best he has ever lived in his life. When he gets his degree not to feel undone, not to feel a relief that he finally left this chaos in which he lives at the Greek university, but to feel that he lived in a whole, in a community of his best times and took the best supplies to build a better Greece Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u705	Mrs. Auger from SYRIZA has the floor. Here comes Mrs. Euthymou. Please within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u706	Mr President, it is late midnight. I understand the fatigue of both the Bureau and of course the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u707	No fatigue from the Bureau. The Bureau can stand until morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u708	I sincerely deplore, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Minister, whether your democratic conscience today will let you sleep after all this precinct of police violence today in the marches of young people, students, workers, youths of Greece, Greek society which has not excluded, you know, from this anti-democratic catastrophe the Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Mera25, Mrs Sakorafa. Of course, this is a rhetorical question because this requires a substantial, essential democratic conscience and I do not know whether it exists in the New Democracy because, I think, after the last speech I have heard, the New Democracy is having dreams before the Century. It imagines a return of the Greek society to the years before the Postpopulation, before 1969, to which you referred, years that were not the best of our lives, such as in the years of the right state and para-states that hit left-wing MPs. I have to acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, the methodicality with which the New Democracy is moving on to privatise public education and the resurgence of the educational system that Greece has experienced in these stone years, which I referred to just now, until the post-Civilisation. I will be brief, Mr President, because it is the time. The New Democracy is attempting to undo what was built with sacrifices and social struggles in the Transmigration for free public, substantial and democratic education. We're talking about democracy today. That is the debate, and that is the appeal. Why? Because quite simply the Right cannot accept that this country has made progress in relocation. It cannot be accepted that Greece was provoked when education became a public asset and when it opened to non-preferentials, when it proved in practice that public education despite the problems, despite the failures and despite the war that was accepted by the neoliberal and neo-conservative consensus, is the one that gave today's scientists, it is the one that gave professionals, doctors, researchers, the theorists, all those who make Greece an integral part of the developed world and not an underdeveloped state of satellite interests and substantials. It is the one that brings, for example, the National Kapodistrian University between the two best universities in the world. What the New Democracy includes and its government speech in the centres of lawlessness to justify the unacceptable introduction of the so-called university police. Mr. Kyranakis is gone. He's not here to fix him. SYRIZA never adopted private securiti companies in this perception. He talks about services to be integrated into the university service, those that Mr. Mitsotakis, as Minister of Administrative Reform in 2013, had fired. What can we do? New Democracy and now, with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, does not feel part of this democratic tradition built on progressive demands and collective needs. He wants to erase it and relapse the thread from '69 and his student security, '65 and Juliana. Possibly older, in '63 in the tricycle, the state and the parastate of the right. He wants to bring us back to the pedophile, the stick, the wood that came out of heaven, the blackboard, the schools for a few, the universities for even less, and it seems also because of the pandemic crisis, health for the unprivileged and the privileged. The only sure thing is that, for example in my city of Thessaloniki, the Aristotle University, the largest university in the Balkans - has other important universities like Macedonia - is now empty from students, without any people. The first-year students were barely able to register and attend short courses. And when good comes back - and I hope this will happen quickly - they will be seen waiting for them in the schools and space of the university special police guards. On the contrary, fewer teachers will expect them and the funding of schools and research programmes will be seen to be lame. Unfortunately for public education, right does not spoil money. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the SYRIZA Members - an Alliance of Progressive Members have set the framework within which the progressive concept of education is being shaped in the 21st century. And this framework can only be the full coordination of the educational process with common democratic principles so that academic work and scientific research do not shrink into the over-indulgence required by the temporary and short-term strategies of the market, but to explore and test broadly the limits of human mentality, so that the needs of the future find outlets and solutions to the science that has begun to be built from today and which is an estate of the whole society, which can enter the universities without fear of the ranger, mobs and certificates of social opinion. Unfortunately, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the New Democracy bears great responsibility for the deterioration of education and culture, for what we have been experiencing in recent days and which is slowly revealed. Universities are property of the Greek society, shield and hope, and we will not let it go lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u709	Mrs Anna Euthymou from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Meikopoulou, Mr Ljupi and Mr Santorinios will follow. Here, Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u710	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's position will be more experiential, because I was a student of law at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and as a student I am well aware of the climate in universities, because I have been active in the political area I belong to. I continued to monitor the youth field as the President of the ‘Youth’ organisation, ‘New European Organised Persons’, which were very active in youth issues. Because I am the newest member of my party in the First of Thessaloniki, I am also the receiver of most stimuli from youth, while I have kept close contact with the academic community, with prestiges and academic executives. So that is what I am going to say. Before I refer to specific articles in the bill, I would like to focus on some general points. First of all, the role of universities. The role of universities is primarily educational. We need to have a educated youth. A educated society is certainly a better society. The secondary role of universities, but essential and realistic, is the link between universities and the labour market. On the second point, I will reply to my fellow Member, Mr Famelos, who was placed in this Chamber, and who spoke so strongly about the fact that the Members of the New Democracy deceive the Greek universities. I would like to stress that the promotion of universities, the free movement of ideas and the democratisation of institutions through the universities is in the sector of idiosyncrasies. And that ideology serves her over time. And, indeed, no one notices, the Greek universities are very good universities at the level of education, with highly trained academic staff, a deep enriched learning range and a remarkable research project. I now submit to the Minutes this survey which we all invoke here and rank the NRP in the eighty-eighth place and the Aristotle University in the two-fifth place. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In fact, we do not need research to confirm it. The most prominent scientists who leave here and go abroad confirm it every day. But what does this bill come to cover? What's he coming to do? It comes to cover inherent weaknesses, to deal with chronic pathogens, to resolve truly extreme phenomena. As to the intrinsic weaknesses, is it reasonable for the state to ensure a better quality of study at the university? Is it reasonable to give students more chance of studying what they want? Is it reasonable to give students a greater chance of studying where they want to study? Is it reasonable for students to have a more upgraded degree in the labour market? Of course it's reasonable. How is this ensured? With the introduction of a new process of introduction to higher education in two phases. The purpose of the arrangement is to introduce more candidates into departments where they really want to study. Chronic pathogens include 'Eternal' students. We are very high in the number of students, while we are very low in the rate and in the rate of graduation. I'm presenting you with a survey by the approved 'voria.gr' site for the Aristotle University, which says that the active students are fewer than the 'eternals'. So it's a pathogen that needs to be solved librarianly. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, when the ministerial decision comes out, I would like you to take into account the exceptions of 'n+2' or of the students who are working, because there are students who are working to support their families and their studies, which is important to take into account the exceptions to the higher education threshold. As to the extreme transgressional phenomena, I too was troubled by the provisions of this bill regarding the placement of special guards. In fact, I have contacted the Dean of Aristotle, Mr Papaioannou, on this matter. The conclusion is that guarding is another, but guarding properly at the Aristotle University and safety from breaches of the ordinary criminal law. Obviously, they cannot be tolerated in behaviours to penetrate the butterflies like the ones we have seen recently, obviously they cannot build offices of reincarcerators and teachers and obviously cannot be tolerated at the expense of human dignity, life and also at the expense of public property. Look, all these provisions that are in place to date, unfortunately, did not get any place, were not as effective as we would like, because we see and deal with these phenomena. So the ratio of this piece of legislation is to deal with these extreme situations. If these are limited, eliminated, dealt with, I believe that the current provisions will be adapted. However, I would also like to deal with another issue, namely the upgrading of universities, the universities of innovation, the universities of extroversion, internationalisation, but also another issue that concerns which youth we want. Obviously, we want a youth with education and training, a socially useful youth, a youth of volunteering, a youth fighting for values and ideals, a youth creating jobs. So it is my deep belief that all of us here in this Chamber and all of us should help to achieve this objective, especially all of us who have been through student youths and have increased experience of our action in the Greek universities. And we should do that through dialogue with the presidents, with academics, with students and with society. All of us through this cooperation and this dialogue will perhaps be able to achieve something more, give way to student life and eradicate these extreme phenomena. And we will eliminate them by finding the causes through coordinated political action, a coordinated policy action which will give every student, every first-year student, a sense of and security that can carry out his or her dreams worthwhile and targeted. I am therefore voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u711	Thank you for the time, my colleague. Mr Meikopoulos will now be given the floor and we will finish the procedure with Mr Ljupi and Mr Santorini. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor. Please keep the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u712	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am sure it is time and I am sure there is a lot of fatigue, so I will try to be brief and share some thoughts with you mainly through comments. I am afraid that what we are discussing today, Mr Minister and fellow Members, is the beginning of a series of reactive measures. I also think that even greater danger is that we are living in the prechamber where we will introduce a logic of arbitrary and drastic, if you like, limiting the vital area of higher education, public education in general. However, it is interesting to comment a little on the motives which led New Democracy to these options today, of course, and on the creation of the university police, but also on the introduction of this minimum import base. I think, Minister, the motives begin at best from ignorance. There is an ignorance of everyday life and the reality of Greek higher and higher education. In the worst case, however, there is also a controversy and prejudice, if you wish, against what it represents, what it represents, what it means today "Greek University", what it means today is "Greek higher education". So, what is it - is of great interest - is the main argument of the Ministry of Education, the Government in general, in order to support, on the one hand, its choice of creating a body of armed guards within universities and, on the other, by forming this rate of minimum import base? I'm going to be a little more on the side of the university police, and I'm going to prove why it's also connected to the minimum import base. I think there has been an unprecedented campaign for the defamation of the Greek university and the work being done within schools and departments for months now. What are you doing on the substance? There is an extensive and protracted projection of specific cases in order to create, to consolidate in the House a picture that all Greek universities are centres of lawlessness and, on the other hand, violations of the law. But here, there is a Minister, Mr Syrigo, and I think you will agree with me - a contradiction and I would like you to explain it at some point. How can it be concurrently centres of lawlessness and mutilation, but at the same time the Greek universities on the world ranking lists are located within 3% of the best universities around the world? This will be very interesting to explain. The most interesting thing, though, today, do you know what it is? Leave what SYRIZA says. Leave what SYRIZA youth says, the executives, the party and all these things in the context of political controversy. I will tell you what they are saying and what they are transposing into the public sphere, but also to you and to Mrs Keramea, the university institutions themselves, the majority of teachers and teachers, who have indicated many of them how problematic these provisions are. That is why I said earlier, Mr Syrigo, that this insistence also has strong elements of solidarity. You have not so far heard the proposals of academic institutions. First, the Rectors' Conference itself - you know that - has informed you that such an arrangement is of a character and intense perfume of unconstitutionality. Why do they tell you that? Because quite simply, the creation within university institutions of a body that will be accountable to EL.AS. and not to the university authorities themselves, it runs counter to the university's constitutionally regulated self-sufficient. So, Mr Syrigo, we do not have a simple idea here. We are not dealing with a mere dogmatism, but there is a conscious contempt for both the Constitution and the laws. Object Two: I am sure you are aware that there are studies and research that are very recently dealing with a very long period of time - the last time in 2010 to 2017 - which proves that crime within universities is not just nil but is much smaller, Mr Syrigo, much lower than crime in Greek society. So the crime you claim to exist in universities is neither so much nor such a form to justify the creation of a police force within the academic community. Are there any, you gonna tell me, timeless violence? There are. However, these - and here is the difference - are few, individual, naturally condemnable, but they do not justify the existence of armed guards or the performance of the special guards to be recruited in this body can guarantee that such incidents will not be repeated in the future. They are dozens of daily incidents within the Greek society, where special guards are arbitrary, often violate their duties, sometimes illegal themselves. Is there a crime around the universities and around them? There's a crime there. But how will she be treated with armed guards within universities? That's the police's own job to deal with. I have already heard Mr Kyranakis, and I know that this dear colleague had taken the lead in the previous years in creating a forum which would form positions and proposals towards a government of how young scientists from abroad can be repatriated, but also how the country's brightest minds toward the outside end. I wonder, Mr Syrigo, how the colleague will feel today when he knows that the provisions of this bill include an article which says that one of the two bodies to be created will be financed on the substance of the university survey. I mean, we're using research money to fund permanent security personnel. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Argument fourthly: the policing of the Greek universities - you know that very well - is not even one of the issues, much less the most critical issue of Greek higher education. I will again appeal to Mr Kyranakis because he spoke of the 21st century student. Now be careful what's going on. What do you commit to the state budget for the creation of this body? You commit 20m euros when the total state funding for higher education is about 90m euros! I ask you, Mr Syrigos - and Mr Kyranakis - how do you feel when you know that these EUR 20 million could give the Greek universities a great impetus for scholarships, for researchers, for teachers, for the maintenance of building infrastructures in order to have clean academic rooms? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I tried to figure out what example you have copied. I tried to find out exactly where they are, what you're entering today, the rest of the world. The rest of Europe is nowhere. Do you know which state has university police? It's only Erdogan's Turkey. You know what Erdogan's doing, too? He appoints them, too. I'm guessing you won't imitate him in a few months when you bring the university administration bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u713	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u714	I had more thoughts to do and share with you. However, I think that anyone who knows a little history, Mr Syrigo, knows very well that whenever there was an attack on cultural rights, at the same time there was also an attack on democracy itself. I think as a university doesn't honor you what's going on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u715	Thank you. Mr. Lippes has the floor. Please, Mr Ljupe, be in your time too to complete the process with Mr Santorini. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u716	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many of the reforms in higher education in recent years have led to a slight change in the functioning of universities. Without a doubt, today's draft law is not just another draft law on higher education. The first category of new regulations concerns the conditions for admission to universities. The minimum import base per school, section or direction shall be established. The minimum base is very different from that of the '10' horizontal which has taken place in the past. For the first time the university departments are actively involved, since each consortium determines the rate for its calculation. The introduction of students into higher education institutions, which are even close to the unit, is a deterioration for university institutions, while at the same time it does not help young people themselves to direct their studies and can successfully complete them. The opponent of the Opposition that thousands of candidates will stay out of schools is, in my opinion, distorted. Of course, I do not know how these thousands are counted, since the basis for introduction depends on the convenience of the topics and the factor that each school will make. Obviously, it is not just a question of importing all, even in schools that have no idea what they have and where statistics show that they do not usually complete their students. On the basis of EUROSTAT data, Greece is classified in the last position as regards the rate of annual graduation by the universities. In many European countries, however, 70% of graduates in high school choose from the outset universities in applied sciences and vocational education. And at this point the rhetoric of counterpopulation in my view is unrealistic. Youths are not directed towards private colleges - as has been said - because there are already the upgraded public IEKs which offer a large number of specialties, and indeed - if they want to - with higher education. We want each young person and every young person to be able to carry out his dreams, channel his time to studies that respond to his own interests, talents, skills. It is precisely this that both substantial changes are made to the way in which the computerised document is submitted. The first difference is that there are two phases of engineering submission. In the first phase the candidate can choose up to 10% of the field schools and after the results have been announced, follow the second one that can state as many schools and departments as he wishes. At this second stage, the second innovation is also introduced. A parallel computer is created by which those who wish to have access to a specific number of posts in public IEKs with a high-school certificate or any other criteria. In view of the fact that at the moment about half of the people entered are saying their admission school in the first five posts of the computer, it is intended that a school should be chosen to become a conscious process for all pupils. A maximum limit is set in the time of study at the IOIs, but with special care for students unable to respond to these needs, students with health problems themselves or their families, disabled people, working students. The general framework provides for a maximum of two or three years depending on the years of study of each school. In this way, no one is excluded from the educational process, while it ceases the Greek phenomenon of eternal students since we know that almost half of the people entering Greek universities are never graduated, based on data from the National Authority of Higher Education. The issue that has raised the greatest interest and caused the reaction of counterpopulation is the issue of security within university spaces. What is the point of any attempt to upgrade our universities if we have not first secured security conditions that guarantee a truly creative and free academic environment? The bill includes a grid of rheopathic and innovative settings for Greek data. The dean is headed as security officer. It shall be set up in each safety and security unit and the safety and security committee. Universities take multi-level measures to shield themselves against phenomena of violence and illegality. Depending on the needs of each AIF, each AIF acquires electronic security systems for indoor and outdoor spaces, always with respect to the legislation on the protection of personal data and of course always in accordance with the relevant European directive. Another important measure is the mandatory system of controlled access to each HEI that is put into operation at the entrance to universities or abroad. For the first time, university protection teams are being set up by police and special guards who are not armed. Protection teams are absolutely necessary to prevent criminal offences. They will always work with the dean, and in case of criminal offences there will be intervention by the police anyway. In any case, these groups will be set up in specific university schools suffering from frequent and serious cases of lawlessness and will remain as long as necessary, as the Minister said. All of this is self-evident for the major universities worldwide. Of course, it is not true that the Antipolitics account for special guards and not teachers in universities. Already with the 2021 budget, universities are financially supported, and they were strengthened with five hundred additional 50 jobs in the LAG and a hundred and twenty administrative posts. The Greek universities undoubtedly have high-level academic teachers, while they have shown that they create worthy scientists and diverse and lead worldwide. At the same time, however, our universities are lower than they deserve in international rankings, in my opinion, precisely because of certain perceptions that do not allow them to evolve into safe areas for the creation and transmission of knowledge. Nevertheless, a great success of the EMCDDA in the eighteenth place in the world as well as ours, the University of Thessaly in 3% of the best universities in the world, as well as the fastest growing Greek university in Greece, after having reached a hundred and three places in one year. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion comes to cover shortcomings and needs over time known to all of us. We support public education. The Greek universities change their view, become safe spaces to accomplish their purpose, the development of sciences and arts, teaching and research, the exchange of views and the generation of new ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u717	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We are completing the process with Mr Santorinio from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u718	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the title of the bill should be 'preventing higher education and upgrading of clientele for colleges'. There was a lot of talk about the moment you chose to bring this bill. Is the choice of the moment random? Obviously, it's not random. In pandemic conditions, lockdown, why? Because across from you you have the whole university community. You have the students in front of you, you have the teachers, and you get them. You have everyone in front of you. You even have the unions of policemen in front of you who disagree with this bill. And today you choose to slander the struggles of students who defend academic freedom under the pretext of lockdown. Do you know who's taking students off the streets? The Opposition doesn't take them off. You're the ones who take them off. You are responsible for what has happened today. Because with your political choices, you take people off the street. You apply the neoliberal concept that every crisis is also an opportunity. So you are turning this crisis into an opportunity to legislate against anti-popular bills. As one reads the bill, and as I see it, it has a threefold intervention: sudden changes in the way students enter, separation of schools into broth and others, based on their popularity and deterioration of most of them, and the enforcement of the doctrine of "law and order", with arrangements contrary to all the institutions of the academic community. Your bill sharply reduces the number of importers by about twenty - five thousand. I have heard the previous speaker say: 'How is this calculated?' It's the statistic, Mr. Colleague, mathematics. You estimate the previous ones have entered, with what bases and you see that about twenty-five thousand won't catch the minimum import base. It's just math. It's science, too. The minimum import base regulation therefore lacks substantial academic criteria. And why am I saying that? Because you consider in advance that students who will not be able to achieve a sterile system of examinations such as pan-Hellenics are not able to assimilate knowledge. But you're disgusting the reality, because students who have been in high grade schools in the previous years, for example at the University of the Aegean - who, anyway, are not the first to do so, so they're on the presumption of lower grades - today they've done postgraduate, doctoral, many of them are university professors abroad. They are those who cannot assimilate knowledge based on your academic criteria. At the same time, this regulation is deeply classic, favours care centres and the provision of sterile preparation for the university, so as to exclude those who do not have the financial capacity to go to schools. At the same time, you are graduating in private colleges of doubtful academic quality. On the presumption that these colleges go to those who failed in the pan-Hellenics, they will receive a degree in which you are equal to university schools, engineers, lawyers, economists. Really, to what extent will those who get these degrees and then compete with those who went above the minimum import base? Is that what you're going to tell us? You have become the best sponsors of private interests and you tell us that they can enter public IEK, which is upgraded. Well, are you kidding us? Then why are you shouting about the revision of Article 16? Are you kidding us? Tell us honestly. We said we'd say things here, but don't make fun of ourselves. You're the best sponsors of private colleges. The second aspect of the bill is that which leads to the complete depreciation and closure of departments and, above all, to regional universities. I call on all the members of the region to take a position, especially those of the island regions, who have the Aegean University in their area. Universities are divided into first and second grade schools, with the unthinkable regulation of the two cycles of engineering. With the choice of the minimum import base it is clear that many schools will be closed. You know that regional universities are playing a key role in upgrading the academic level of areas in which you are also not counting. At the same time, there will also be a negative impact on the economies of the cities hosted by these universities. We go to the third pillar, as I read the bill, which is the pillar "law and order". In your attempt to impose your far right-wing agenda, you do not see extreme arguments, but at the same time you reveal yourself. We heard Mrs. Keramou telling us that universities are not an ideological fermentation site. Really? Through the ideological fermentation the Polytechnics became, through the ideological fermentation in May 1968, through the ideological fermentation all the great progressive battles to defend democracy and you tell us that it is not an ideological fermentation area for universities? Is that what you care about, the sterile knowledge and anything else? It disturbs you that progressive citizens are produced within universities. That's what's bothering you, and that's the nuclear difference we have. We have Mr Chrysochide who told us - really, Mr Syragos, how did you accept that? - that the victors are addicted to the threat of abuse. Do you hear that thing and you're not raised? Of course, we have heard you do a tragic list of minority positions, in order to justify what? What you told us about the police in the universities? There was also a jungle in the police? Is that what you wanted to justify and did this tragic list of minority positions and brought here beyond the notice? So, what's gonna happen? You're going to think of police to keep these announcements from happening? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. We also heard Mr. Brutsi listing us episodes, but forgot an incident at the University of Piraeus on 26-9-2003, where students of DRC threatened with dean fire extinguishers, whom they sent to the intensive and one of them is a MP today, is also your State Secretary. That's not to forget. So you're lying that the police can't intervene. Obviously, he can intervene even before the abolition of asylum, the police intervened, as at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, where he dismantled a drug coil. You're telling us crime is inside the universities. Really, are the drugs produced in the universities? Can't you get them out? Honestly, are these the arguments you have to say? You are slandering the universities at the best places in the world. It was said before: The University of Athens is in the eighteenth place at 12 thousand. These universities are slandering, they've taken off these students, and at the same time, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u719	Please finish, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u720	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. You spend 20 million a year in hiring special guards, while you could hire teachers. And because, Mr President, you said 'but this can be done', there is also the 'one to one' rule. So if you get a thousand 30 special guards, you won't get a thousand 30 teachers. If you get a thousand and thirty special guards, you won't get a thousand 30 doctors. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have asked you at the first moment that, if you really believe that this is a substantial reform, stop voting on the bill and bring it in when the universities open it, we should really discuss it. But you don't, because you know that the whole academic community is in front of you. Take it out now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u721	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u722	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u723	Because I heard it for once - it comes mainly from SYRIZA - SYRIZA, in order to devaluate the speech of his opponents, often matches them with the junta, with the extreme right, etc., etc. So they have isolated a passage of thirteen seconds from a two-hour debate, which also contained historical references, to compile the picture of the supposedly pounding. Whoever hears it will see that I use the term "giggled" for what was going on at the time. I would like to warmly ask that the controversy be made on the basis of arguments and not on the basis of feelings which may be recurring in memory and in the past and, indeed, a past of fifty years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u724	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-10-S1-commons.u725	With the consent of the House at a time of 0.56 the meeting for the day, Thursday, February 11, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing discussion and voting on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions'.
