ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-9-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the PKK's meeting, 15-9-2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law, were confirmed by the Bureau of the PKK's minutes of 15-9-2021, with regard to the whole of the draft law: ‘New framework for the welfare of pet animals — ‘ARGOS’ programme and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Following a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of the Transport Equivalent’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 September 2021 to discuss and vote for the bill at a meeting on the principle and on the whole in accordance with the procedure laid down for the codes in Rules 76 of the Constitution and 111 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. In particular, as far as the organisation of the debate is concerned, Parliamentary Representatives, as well as the Ministers and a circle as a priority that will include a speaker from each parliamentary group, as well as a 12-mile circle of speakers each: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25 are concerned. Likewise, they will be divided into a 12-member cycle and Members who will participate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform or by physical presence. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Once the list of speakers has been completed, the draft law will be adopted at the outset and on the whole by means of an opinion of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Philippos Loading for 15 minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are being called upon to ratify the first code of legislation drawn up by the central codification committee and introduced into the House. This implementation is intended to address the structural pathogens of pluralism and maliciousness in our country and to institutionally modernise it. It is a problem that needs treatment and is a problem of the political world in general. In the past few years, mainly in government, SYRIZA was misguided. There have been hundreds of laws, countless amendments, thousands of articles and provisions. I'll give you a simple example. From June 2017 to August 2017, a hundred fifty-nine amendments were tabled in just two months, ladies and gentlemen. If that's not a pluralism and a bad legacy, then what is it? In the years of your governance, gentlemen of the Great Refugee, it turns out every day that your only goal was to denounce the government that goes away on the one hand as to how you legislate and, on the other, to legislate in such a way that the concept of abuse is ripe before it. And the worst part isn't that. The worst thing is that the sum of almost hundreds of amendments you tabled had nothing to do with the legislation. It was, as the current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, said at that meeting, "last-minute rumbles" to serve your interests. Then, of course, your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, blamed New Democracy for pluralism, when the New Democracy for the period 2012-2015, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, in a hundred fourteen sanctions for international conventions, had only brought fourteen amendments. The whole SYRIZA tactic was, of course, continued in 2018, as we said in the committee, where you had brought almost two hundred seven amendments, of which two hundred twelve were irrelevant with the contents of the laws and a hundred seventy-eight-dollars. The aim of our Government, the Government of New Democracy, is correct legislation, which is demonstrated by the process of codifying legislation which is now beginning. So today I have the honour of introducing the first code of legislation and I am very pleased that this code is about the island policy of the country. So L.4770/2021 is the only integrated framework I would say regulatory framework on the island policy of our country. This is an institutional framework that takes into account disadvantages, but the most important advantages of the island area and implements a specific, differentiated policy, with the main aim of reducing the gap with the mainland. We have therefore set the priorities and have established financial instruments, but also programmes that will strengthen and promote entrepreneurship, the exploitation of new technologies and the sustainable development of our islands, always with respect for the environment and the nature of every place. The specific part of the code encodes the articles of Law 4770/2021, so that every island businessman can understand the institutional funding programmes and become a socialist of our own policy. The Government of New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, for the first time presents an integrated island policy which, in practice, recognises the importance of this area. For years, islands have been treated solely as a geographical concept. Today, then, once again, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of the real value, but also the dimension, is shown. Since the beginning of our own governance, many important steps have been taken to strengthen the island region in contrast to you who, of course, have abolished the reduced VAT rates in 2015 and other legislation in 2016, contrary to us that, of course, we have also brought HISPIA discharge to the remote islands, which you did not even vote on. And I move on to the equivalent of transport, an issue which directly affects island regions and affects the second part of the code. All islanders and all undertakings operating on the islands must be entitled to the equivalent. The second part of the code is therefore particularly important, under which Articles 4551/2018 are codified with regard to the equivalent of transport, an issue directly relating to the island regions of the country. In particular, as we have said in the committee, the procedure for financing the transport equivalent is simplified, namely the beneficiaries, the way in which applications are made is understood, the method of payment and the reasons for payment being interrupted. Now, with this codification, for the first time, rules are in place to establish the transport equivalent with full transparency. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So now, for the first time, it's streamlined... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down! We talked about it in committee too. You've done it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the special speaker to speak. You will also receive your word in turn. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u5	So today we are called upon to ratify the code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area. Greece acquires a comprehensive maritime policy for the first time with clear strategic objectives, a distinct action plan but also comparable instruments and instruments of implementation. The Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in January 2021, brought to Parliament an integrated institutional framework and now implements an integrated maritime policy with respect to the specificities of each island, consistently and with its main priorities the enhancement of islandity and competitiveness, the development of the local economy, the strengthening of the connectivity of the islands and the security of maritime transport, of course always with respect to the environment. Greece therefore becomes officially recognised and well-established public island policy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Andreas Michaelides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to derogate from the discussion procedure of today's bill, Madam President, as a member of the Chios Parliament, to express our deep satisfaction and welcome the decision of the permanent Holy Synod of the Church of Greece in which he restored the late Metropolitan of Chios Joakim Straubis, who, seventy-five years ago, in the stone years of the Civil War, had been condemned as a fallacy of his metropolitanness for his involvement and active action in the National Resistance through EAM's ranks. I think that by its decision the Continental Holy Synod of the Church of Greece closed down a black story of modern church history, restoring a hierarch who honoured his radar and served his people. He was the last EAM metropolitan, after Kozanis Joakim and Ilias Antonio, who had not been restored and finally restored. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was amazed to hear the majority rapporteur, who spent the three minutes of his eight-minute position, mentioning to SYRIZA and his things. You continue, Mr President, the practice you have followed in the committee in preparing the draft legislation, in its preparation, of the 'government of the opposition'. As far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the codification of the provisions we are discussing today concerns island policy. Let me have some general introductory remarks. These remarks have as their starting point the multiple risks and challenges faced by the islands in our country, many of which, of course, concern islands of other countries in the European, at least, space, not to mention global ones. Some of the areas more acutely facing climate change are, as we know, coastal areas and, more specifically, islands. At the level of production and economy, our islands have major difficulties in joining not only regional and global but also domestic chains of value. At the same time, the excessive dependence of many islands on tourism results in the strengthening of seasonal forms of employment and labour precariousness. The difficulties I am referring to are reflected in the low position of island regions in a number of comparative analyses and indicators at European level. For example, in a recent JEP study from the overall productivity of factories in the European Union's regional competitiveness index, as well as in other OECD regional statistics, the extremely adverse position of islands in sectors such as the environment, labour, access to health services and other activities is reflected. We recall, at the same time, the absence of any essential consideration by the present Government, not even to the implementation of the fundamental understanding of the importance and strategic dimension of the island policy. I do not think I need to talk about the absence of any substantial reference by the Prime Minister to issues of insularity in his recent presence at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It is also enough to see, for example, what the National Recovery and Resilience Plan does not provide for all these social, environmental and development challenges of islands. And let me come to the bill. The first part, of course, concerns maritime policy and contains some articles of legislation in 2021 and, of course, Article 12, which refers to the Council of Island Policy. In the second section, articles are encoded mainly for the equivalent transport, a flagship initiative of our own government, however much the current government wants to degrade it. As regards the codification of legislation, may I once again be allowed by the honourable Member, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, to remind him that we are not reintroducing legislation today - because, Mr Colleague, you have referred to the areas currently introduced by the legislation - but codification, that is to say, we are collecting laws that are scattered and we include them in a single draft.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u8	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u9	Obviously the codification of legislation is desirable, in the sense of the concentration, liquidation and classification of relevant provisions, given that it is a question of the country's plurality and evil which is, indeed, an essential, necessary process. On the other hand, we cannot fail to observe the enormous delay in codification by the present government. We recall that the provisions of the law of our own governance on the central codification committee, which, among other things, was directly transferred to the General Secretariat of the Government to the supervision of the Prime Minister himself, were abolished. Two years, then, the first ratification of a code of law comes in a relatively simple field - you will allow me to observe - as is the case with the legislation concerning the Ministry of Shipping. In view of the above, this delay in the codification which the New Democracy had announced is the general picture of the exile of the famous "final" state, which the Greek people have recently lived in a very tragic way. On the content of the provisions, of course, we will not make any new remarks, because, as I said, this is not a new piece of legislation. Of course, however, we must comment on the facts of the Government and the Ministry in the field of island policy. Six months ago we voted for the famous'sea policy' here in Parliament. We have heard nothing about the financial instruments that you have announced, that is to say, the funding of island entrepreneurship, the Blue Economy Fund, the Maritime Economy Bodies Register. What happened, then, to the millions that you brought together through these tools, as you were moving through your friendly press at the time? It should also be recalled that the law on integrated maritime policy included, neither little nor much nine ministerial and joint ministerial decisions. Has any of them been issued? When, too, is the decision to adopt the national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area, which was expected for six months, supposedly from the publication of the law? When is the CSR expected for the Maritime Economy Bodies Register, which would be issued three months after the publication of the law? It is clear that the criticism we have made at that time about fireworks without substance, with ambiguity, is absolutely justified for the need to adopt a large number of ministerial decisions and, above all, for a complete budget deficit and a lack of a firm policy framework. Even where there were seemingly some steps, of course, the political sign of your announcements and the interests of your service policies are obvious. In particular, the Minister has recently made announcements - and perhaps symptomically, I would say on the eve of his announcement of reform - regarding the NEARTHOS programme, which, of course, relates to the entire period of the new NSRF, namely 2021-2027 and, of course, also to the Recovery Fund. Even if we assume, however, that what has been announced is true, it comes to the fact that two-thirds of the total amount are directed to specific maritime and shipping interests. For the port infrastructure of the islands the amounts are clearly reduced. In addition, we cannot see that, for the part of the 'green' transition to the coastline, no reference has been made, as has also been made to other dimensions of island policy in critical areas, in particular, of the social and economic development of the islands, such as health, education, equal and easy access to public services in general, primary production, entrepreneurship, which are still outside the scope of the Ministry's radar. It also continues to ignore the specific difficulties and inequalities with which - and we have referred to introductory terms - islands are linked, such as regional cohesion and development. As regards the equivalent, which the Government is in every way attempting to reduce it and relax it, even though the philosophy of the measure is inconsistent with the conservative policies implemented by the New Democracy and the neoliberal core of its current governance, the wider acceptance of the transport equivalent by the inhabitants and businessmen of the islands forced the government to draw to it so that it could continue. But her embarrassment and intolerance are obvious. The delays in payments are great, and they do not go to subsidising fuel on all the islands, as we planned, nor do we take brave steps to extend the measure we have proposed, for example, to teachers who teach in schools on the islands, as well as to integrate the whole of the country's population with a view to strengthening domestic tourism. And I mean the people who visit the islands. The attempt to depreciate the measure has led to the continuing delay, as I said, of repaying the beneficiaries, a delay which many times reaches six months, so that there is no consistency and, of course, the confidence of the citizens in the measure is compromised. On the business support side, the Ministry systematically delays the payment of beneficiaries, businesses, while it has reduced periods of declaration of transport costs from three times a year, i.e. in two times a year, every six months. On the fuel line, while the grant of the entire islands should have started - the implementation, as planned by our own government - by means of legislation, abolished this part of the measure as a whole, replacing with a small allowance only for residents. As a result of this policy, there is a disproportionate increase in fuel costs and especially in the small islands where the value of unleaded has now exceeded EUR 2 per litre. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the essence of the bill, we repeat that it is a codification of legislation. For such a procedure we in no way can be negative. We are, however, fully aware of this - and I stress this - whatever reservations and the negative attitude to legislation which are codified and for which we have either voted against or stated our negative position in every way. Thank you, Madam President, for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, every attempt to codify and standardise our legislation in the context of the principles of sound legislature is not just a positive one but a requirement, in our opinion. In this sense, we are clearly placed in this draft law at the outset. After all, this draft law is essentially a codification of the texts already adopted, the content of which is not substantially altered, and for which we have already been put into several provisions, even negatively, in the voting process of each of them in the Greek Parliament. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft code presented to us today by the Government contains a very important measure for islands, such as transport equivalent. It started applying even with several difficulties in 2018 by the SYRIZA Government, which is of course credited. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must at the same time - and I have told the committee - at least in our memory to make a reference to the late Mayor of Tasos Aliferis. Recognize him as the inspiring of this measure. It is true that the measure of the transport equivalent continues to make a significant contribution to reducing the increased transport costs of people on our islands. However, more than three years after the vote on Law 4551/2018, I would remind you and, above all, the current government has not effectively addressed the problems and challenges identified in its implementation. The New Democracy, which I recall had voted against the relevant law, still does not seem to believe in this measure, as its full indulgence has shown since it took over the country's governance. It has not yet drawn up the national policy of implementing the measure, despite the fact that it under the existing law should have been completed by the beginning of last July. The payouts of the beneficiary passengers and businesses are too late and you know it. At the same time, several of our fellow citizens who, in essence, should have been entitled to join the measure are still ignored by the government. We've told you to say it again. They could be added to the eligible students at the island universities. An additional incentive will thus be given, in the form of a reduction in transport costs for students, to choose island universities. The measure could also include citizens who, although their dwellings, are in the islands, but are not permanent residents. They can even be beneficiaries of island heterogeneous people who maintain their electoral rights on the island. The measure could also extend to all civil servants serving on islands without being their seat. Finally, it is now clear and timely to examine the full integration of all residents and businesses in Crete. I remember, Minister, the strong criticism you yourself have voiced as an opposition to the non-imposition of Crete to the islands, as originally applied. And so far, your Government and you as Minister of State, all you have done is to introduce to the measure a limited number of companies in Crete, ignoring all potential passengers, inhabitants of the island and all companies. At the same time, Mr Santorinios and SYRIZA are calling for Crete to join the measure when the SYRIZA Government itself left Crete outside the core of the law. Points of time, I'd say, what else I can say! It's not the transport equivalent, Minister. Your wrong choices deprive the Cretans of what other islanders enjoy. All right, let's keep that little thing going. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, the code is being used up to include Law 4720/2021 in practice that came into force this year. This law is also the only initiative of your Government. We did so during the debate on the bill in the House last January. This law cannot under any circumstances be regarded as an integrated maritime policy in the island area. It has a lack of clarity and completeness both in its implementation and in its safeguarding and raising the resources required. As a monument to unreasonable legacy, we cannot mention it. This law refers to the definition of most of the most important arrangements in ministerial decisions, in essence being a white cheque to regulate the most important issues from the government itself. Empty letter remains to date your law, Mr. Plakkatakis, and all the forecasts, such as the famous "NEARTOS" programme, and all other dubious financing projects remain on paper. Not even the ministerial decision on the national strategy, on the integrated maritime policy in the island area, you have not yet issued nor the CYR for the national register of operators of the maritime economy, and both should have already been adopted at the corresponding deadlines set by you in the same law that we passed in January. And instead of making self-criticism, self-assessment, if you would like, by stepping up efforts to meet your obligations towards islanders, you choose the rather evil one I would say - let me - delete these final dates from the relevant provisions of the laws of both 4551/2018 and 4770/2021. Unfortunately, you are even taking advantage of this very juncture of codification, depreciating - and that is the risk - and undermining - and that is the risk, I repeat - even the process of codification itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must apologise for its accumulated failures and weaknesses in the field of island policy not even in our Parliament, but above all in our own citizens, in our islands, for the work it had to do and did not carry out on its low expectations, for the mistakes in the management and control of COVID on ships with significant implications for public health and tourist activity. Your design and policy were exhausted at the communication level, trying to convince us with creative statistics and no doubt evidence that the control of passengers on ships was supposedly effective. As a result, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have been disproved. Ship crews, passengers, and even porters who investigated the controls know the truth, the irrationality, the roughness and the unreliability of controls. More than two years now the New Democracy Government has been unable to control unjustified increases in ship tickets to ensure healthy competition on the coastline. It is impossible to apply a proportionate and uniform pricing landscape to all the organisations in the port, thus increasing transport costs. We have tabled, Minister, a number of questions on the subject of tickets and port fees, indicating concrete proposals and changes to the institutional framework, but you choose not to answer the substance and the worst to remain inactive. For example, at the beginning of your term of office as Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy on the occasion of my question, you have committed yourself to determining objectively the level of port fees and you have known that a committee had already been set up under the Secretary-General of Ports and Port Policy once again after two years. It is only a micrograph of what is repeatedly experienced by islanders as a result of your time-consuming policy, all of you, with enormous responsibilities for all governments both in the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, which unites you all, the same sensitivity to the interests of shipowners and your agreement on the common maritime policy of the European Union with the known consequences, of course. Is it not true that the Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which voted in 2013 to abolish the 30-year-old ceiling for ships, which allowed seafarers to keep their soaps on the line, which are every three and a little mediated with what this entails both security and the frequency of the routes? SYRIZA, not only has maintained this unacceptable regime, but has given individuals the responsibility for issuing the ship's certificates of suitability, and there is no denial, Yiannis buying Yiannis drinks, that is. Aren't you the one who, by the same law, cut the maritime transport network into low and high areas of operation and thus retaining the unacceptable status of feral lines in 2021? What is, in fact, justified by the multi-day exclusion of islands, their inadequate connection with the mainland and with each other, which limits them to the elementary - and not always - rather than the need for modern needs and, of course, the modern possibilities for linking the islands? Because this is only determined on the basis of the shipowners' profits. A lot more so in these remote regions, when your poor connection to the seaside, the extremely expensive ferry and airline tickets are even worsening the difficulties that they are experiencing in their daily lives, when at the same time your island policy means a serious downsizing of public health structures, public education, subsidization and closure of basic public services, that is to say, that not only do you care to ensure that the inhabitants of the islands are covered, but that, at the same time, they have been translated into multi-day and multi-experienced trips and, of course, this is particularly possible during the winter season. That is why it is challenged to show as a success who has increased the millions of subsidies that you are squeezing every year in the shipowners when you cannot hide who ultimately imposes the conditions of ship launching. As if this money did not come out of the pocket of the workers, the self-employed, the farmers, who are the only ones who are squeezing away from taxation. On the contrary, even with this hypocritical reduction, for example, the elementary facilitation of the reduced rates of VAT for the inhabitants of the islands, which, to some extent, was a relief for all the difficulties they face, not only in the process of dismantling and abolishing them, but today refuse to support the repeated amendments we have tabled to reintroduce the 50% discount for all the islands and not just those that were unacceptable to the refugee. When it is realistic and necessary today to take much more generous measures to support workers, the people's families who have lifted these disproportionate burdens over the years of the crisis, but also capitalist development, particularly in view of the new wave of accuracy. Like, for example, the total abolition of VAT and indirect taxes in all kinds of people's consumption, the total abolition of HPAI, the drastic reduction in prices in ships and aircraft at 50%, in current and in fuels by, for example, the abolition of excise duty and a number of other measures to substantially protect people's incomes, such as the immediate and generous deletion of debts of self-employed, workers and unemployed persons to tax and others. That is why it is inadequate and does not justify the celebratory reasons, and on the part of SYRIZA, which today claims the paternity of the measure, to present itself as a compensation, allegedly, for the equivalent of transport. Because it was not possible, of course, to absorb the great precision, the sharp increase in prices in goods, in agricultural supplies, in everything that workers, farmers, the self-employed on the islands have seen taking up the issue in recent years and abolishing the reduced rates. Finally, this gave air to the sails of the ferry and airline companies since they did not just lose a single euro, but instead took it as an opportunity to increase the cost of tickets even more. And so apart from the permanent inhabitants of the islands, planes and boats became sloppy for the popular strata they want to travel or need to visit the islands, for passengers, vehicles and goods. But what is supposed to cover the transport equivalent is not actually paid by the tax revenues, which are again collected by the workers themselves and the popular layers? Does this result from the increase in the taxation of shipowners, major transport business groups, as a whole? So they're paying part of the broken crisis too? Of course not. Only scales go to capital. For shipowners not only enjoy, with the approval of all of you, tens of exemptions with constitutional safeguards, but you also buzz them over money for the arid lines and so many other subsidies. And now what is your concern with this bill? How you will join the Recovery Fund the replacement of their old fleet in the name of always green growth due to the ecological fuel, you say, and the digitalisation packages. And you are even advertising as the achievement of the new covetous millions you will give them for the construction of their new ships. The billions there go from sweat and overtaxation of the populace and not to people's needs. And in the end on these green ships will the people pay less expensive tickets? Of course not. These green ships will pay the same expensive as black and sparsely paid and green electricity. Here, then, is the wind of green growth and the blue island economy. Because capitalist development was never to be for everyone. Because for the people's layers of the islands not only do you not touch the serious problems that concern them, which concern their income, unbearable taxation, the flexible working relationships, the constantly worsening wages, the miserable state of the public health system, the sufferings of the two wrestlers and self-employed people who have become particularly busy in the pandemic period, but all of these things you give to the jaws of capital. Similarly, the shipping fleet at the hands of the shipowners is marked by the profit criterion, the increase in ticket prices, the inadequate routes despite the millions of State subsidies. This is why a greater obstacle to the satisfaction of the people's needs is constantly becoming the same capitalist property in the means of production. That is why it is crucial, Minister, to whom the ships belong. It must be borne in mind that even the fight for safe ships, regular routes, a reduction in the price of tickets and, of course, the rights of workers at sea is linked to the fight to overthrow this situation so that the labour power can become the people's property of ships, shipyards, ports and then to develop shipping on the basis of popular needs. The Single State Transport Agency, which will be responsible for all transport, can just exploit the whole transport infrastructure of the country, not competitively, but in addition, in order to ensure the regular connection of the islands with mainland Greece and with each other, meet the people's transport needs, as well as the needs for the development of productive activities on the islands and on the mainland. Of course, at the heart of this production process is the fulfilment of popular needs through the socialisation of the means of production, the exploitation of research and technology achievements for the benefit of the people and not for the benefit of the profitability of capitalist enterprises. This is now modern, necessary and realistic on the basis of the potential of the time. Here, then, is how socialism unreservedly highlights its supremacy in all aspects of social life.After the deadlocks created by the capitalist development path, which is becoming increasingly inhumane only way out for the people, it is collective retaliatory and struggle that is targeting the real causes of the problems of decent income and wages, for stable work for all, modern and public free health, education, welfare, abolition of unpopular taxes. It is worth mentioning, Minister, that the cost of the ferry tickets Igoumenitsa - Corfu has a different price from the ferry Corfu - Igoumenitsa with the same ship, the same ferry company, on the same day, because of a different pricing policy of the Port Authority of Igoumenitsa. After eight years of implementation of Law 4150/2013, you have not yet met the provision of Article 38 for the preparation of the development strategy of the national port system, where appropriate because your port policy and targeting are exhausted in attempting to divest port agencies that have not yet been sold. While, as an opposition, you also strongly criticised the previous government - and I am rightfully going to say - the suspension of the measure of reduced VAT on all islands, today as a government, you are maintaining the same status. We have repeatedly submitted to you documented proposals for the extension of the reduced VAT to all the islands, as well as other small economic incentives, on the basis of concrete incentives, mainly to support the small and remote islands, at the very low financial cost. But refuse. Refugee and listen to us, at the same time as, as you are taking over, the Prime Minister joined the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki measures of financial relief, which your design for the allocation of resources of the Recovery Fund is completely ignored, once again. In fact, what measures have you taken or have you even suggested, Mr Plakkatakis, as the relevant Minister for Island Policy, to strengthen the island infrastructure, the island economy, the labour market, in addition to the exercises on the map of the county? You presented something to us seven months ago. What's the next day? In order to strengthen the health care system for islands, for the balanced economic development of the islands, for the primary sector, for processing, innovation, the environment, what measures have you taken or have you planned or planned to make the islands viable and unaffected in unforeseen situations such as pandemic, which have a negative impact on the successful but one-dimensional tourism economy? The government and the Minister responsible must at last understand the importance of the portfolio of this Ministry and, in particular, the responsibility of the island policy. Unfortunately, as I understand it, Mr Minister, the New Democracy and you see it as an agent for the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Islands policy - I would say that you will allow me to express - 'text' - in the shipping portfolio. That is why you have also made sure that you were stripped of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, the once powerful Ministry for the Islands and the Aegean, set up by the Amnesty Andreas Papandreou, which has made the greatest contribution to the adoption of the important island policies for our country, which have been implemented so far. A characteristic feature of the resentment of the island policy is the fact that, in amending the recommendation of the Board of Island Policy, you have nominated as your deputy, as President, the Secretary-General of Ports and not the responsible Secretary-General of the Aegean and Island Policy as the principal. Even issues relating to the planning and monitoring of the maritime transport of the islands are no longer managed by the responsible General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. You have also arranged for this to be entrusted to the Hellenic Coast Guard, as well as to almost all your shipping policy. With all due respect to the representatives of the Port Corps and the Hellenic Coast Guard, but in which other countries, Minister, Europe or the world, are policies on coastal shipping and maritime policy assigned to a military body, without even specifying the minimum formal qualifications and specialisation that it needs, even when our country needs to strengthen and distribute the Greek Coast Guard Corps by means of an improper and fair transmission system, but also the trade unions of the port authorities in vain asking you to do so from the first time you took up your duties? We therefore call on you, Minister, even now, to proceed immediately, substantiatedly and effectively with substantial measures for our islands and islands - they are waiting for it, they need it - exhausting all possible public consultation and political dialogue, which we support over time as a party with concrete proposals. Because, ladies and gentlemen, because, Minister, Greece starts from our islands and ends on our islands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Konnakka has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. The greatest interest in today's debate may not be focused on the individual provisions of the bill, since it is indeed codification, without any substantial change, already adopted laws, for which we have been placed in detail. This is the first part of the recent New Democracy law on the so-called 'integrated maritime policy' and the arrangements for the equivalent of transport, that is to say, what came as compensation at the time from the government of SYRIZA, to gold the pill to the islanders for the abolition of the reduced VAT rates, which of course all of them voted together, SYRIZA, New Democracy and Change Movement, which now express their concern. What is of great interest, however, is the common concern shared with the government, and with the debate in committee and today, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, because the government is delaying the implementation of the financial instruments and development plans, which it announced and voted in the codified provisions six months ago, with the Minister moving to reassure the worrying Opposition that everything is going well and that the Government's intention of opening up this codification process is to enable this new code to function as the main negotiating mechanism for specialising the resources of the ESDP and the Recovery Fund. What you are all fighting for is whether the Ministry will be able to set up the necessary tools for sharing the recovery package, i.e. billions of people's money, which will go to shipowners, tourists, shipping, energy capital, to the large transport groups. Because these recipients have the Recovery Fund specified and this is exactly the direction in which the "NEARTOS" programme specialises. It includes new capital privileges, state and Community funding for, as you say, maritime competitiveness. So what does that mean? Further strengthen the profitability of shipowners, business groups active in maritime transport, ports, ship repairs, coastal tourism, aquaculture, mining, transport of energy and oil and gas, respectively storage and distribution, through pipelines from the ports of the country. They really give them all the maritime strategy of the government. And you may not be part of the codification, and the other articles that marked the even greater intensity of the exploitation of seafarers, but also the dangerous reductions to safety measures, but these do not only apply and continue to apply in full, along with the rain, other regulations, which in turn led to the reductions in the organic compositions of ships, the hitting of collective labour contracts and so much more, but they are all the ones which are the prerequisite of the competitiveness of the blue economy, and of course capitalist development. But was the result different from your national maritime strategy for the life of islanders? It is really challenging that your confrontation with which government has been less, you say, excluded the islands, in a logic that the shipowners consider to be taking forward and escaping ships whenever and as they smoke them, depending on their interests, to impose journeys with duration and stations reminiscent of the journey of Odysseus and to keep on board ships over forty years, which you present with a nerve as a benefit to islanders. This is not another unfortunate event, Minister, the continuing suffering of the inhabitants and visitors of Lemnos and the Holy Army, who have envyed last year's greatness in Samothrace and indeed in the heart of summer. This will all stand before the JRC, of course, and we will not vote on this bill. Not only is it not aspirin for the problems of the people, but instead it stands against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, my colleague. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are going to start by the fact that coming such bills in this House, but not even being informed of the sale of our public property, especially of the strategic importance of state-owned enterprises, is totally unacceptable to us. For example, we have not been informed of the concession of Egnatia, which crosses half Greece, where else? - in our national manufacturer, 'TERNA', for the sale of DEPA at a time when demand for gas has been set off, for the sale of 49% of HEDO, of the PPC retail network, which no favoured country sells, nor for any other. In this respect, the civilisation of a state operating in this way is not called democracy but a parliamentary dictatorship with a monarch prime minister. Especially when in the elections only 58% of the Greeks voted. The government took fifty seats free of charge. Let's not forget. Let the government forget it, which from the Greeks only got eight seats. With regard to the triumphs due to the provision of its subsidiary "MODY'S" for growth rate of 8.2% in 2021, even if it is verified, as we naturally wish, we will simply return to the levels of 2019, but having lost two years, having borrowed 41 billion euros, in addition, which increased our public debt to 387 billion euros, having damaged over 30 billion euros, due to budget deficits in the commercial balance, as well as to the current account balance and so on. Obviously, this is not a success, but it is a misguided failure. More specifically, when you spend a euro to buy 60 cents of GDP and 18 cents of public expenditure, such as 2021, if the projection of MODY'S is verified. As far as the Prime Minister's prediction of growth is concerned, in 2021, as against 3.6%, of the Minister of Finance, of course, has something to do with the sale of the country, like a household, who sells the furniture of his home to survive, without thinking about what it will do when he sells it all out. It also relates to price increases, to inflation, and only to the official rate that is far from real inflation, so it is, of course, an alchemy, for the government's known alchemys. Honestly, we are sorry for our children, since we are constantly charging them with debts, while at the same time selling them out, what they have been inherited by so many generations of Greeks with trouble, with sweat and with their blood. Literally with sweat and blood. The current draft law, now, is actually a simple codification of existing legislation, the first to be brought to Parliament by the government, after two whole years. Obviously, it is necessary, as the regulatory framework is specific. In this regard, what concerns island policy, as the Minister is aware of it, of course. In fact, it is related to two laws: Law 4770 passed in January 2021, as well as Law 4551/2018, which was institutionalised by SYRIZA. Also, of course with others. In particular, its first part, which relates to Law 2770/2021, with Articles 1 to 13, concerns maritime policy in our island area. Articles 9 and 10 simply change the order, and Article 11 is the same, as in the 13th, which in the previous year had the number 12 because a new 12 is inserted for the establishment of the Island Policy Council. Its second part relates to equivalent transport, whereas the third part to Articles 25 and 26 relates to the applicable provisions and the entry into force. As we have now mentioned in committee, it is strange that a draft law should be tabled specifically in relation to matters which have a cost, such as transport equivalent, and that there should be no financial impact, as is at least concluded by the non-reportation of the General Accounting Office of the State. Especially in relation to costs, we reiterated our questions from the previous bill, which were either not answered at all, or the answers were not convincing, such as the vagueness of the report that resources will come from the NRPs. In this respect, since the evidence we have provided has shown that the sums of the NRP have been low, the Minister replied, then, that they will be leveraged ten to twenty times. If that's possible! However, when we asked him what leverage was achieved so far, we did not get any answers, noting that politics, such as islands, without budgetary costs, and also with the desired benefit for society and for the public, does not exist. What the Minister said to the committee, however, if we understood correctly, is that Crete, which was exempted, and also that he guaranteed EUR 1 billion for the first time, and that, for the first time, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy had obtained an autonomous programme of its own. Is that true? Did you really guarantee EUR 1 billion, Minister? Where exactly? Finally, the Minister said that he increased the line of barren lines from EUR 90 million in 2019 to EUR 130 million in 2020 and to EUR 138 million in 2021, while the coastlines have largely densied, which, if applicable, is of course positive. In the first part, now, we have not reiterated what we have already said and, unfortunately, they have not been taken into account, but only that very important, very great emphasis should be placed on Evia, which has been affected in all areas. The island has literally been destroyed, and of course the Prime Minister's apologies for over five hundred thousand acres that were burnt only in Evia, mainly because of the non-preventive measures, obviously with the government's responsibility. In any case, we did not see that these thirteen articles constitute an integrated policy, and we did not see any reference to dealing with the phenomenon of the abandonment of the small islands, especially those that have an ageing population, overwhelmingly less than a few decades ago due to migration and subnatality. From 1951 to today, fifty inhabited islands have been emptyd. The example is Eretusa, of the Diapondinian islands, which had four hundred ninety-five inhabitants according to the 2011 census, while today only sixty, with twenty of them. The issue of demographics is crucial, huge and, unfortunately, the government does not give it any significance. In addition, it does not specifically refer to the draft law, especially to professional fishing, as one would reasonably expect from a national strategy as an integral part of the country's blue economy and coastal zone. In Article 7 we have proposed that a study should be carried out on the kind of entrepreneurship that will be supported, namely, that the money should not be given to 'rooms to let' and to hotels, by continuing unregulated development, but by region, with a particular view to primary production and to young people, even to innovation, which at least in the agri-food sector, can and must be strengthened. As we have said, the issue is mainly national except for economics in terms of the decentralisation required, etc. In addition, our economic model must be changed immediately, which must cease to be based on the monoculture of tourism. On the other hand, what is the point of launching an island policy when we have not yet established fishing zones in the Aegean Sea, when we allow Turks to fish in our own seas and to export our own fish duty free, when we are the only country on the planet, which allowed fishing in the Ionian Sea within its territorial waters in Italy, so when the Government is evading for the seas of the Aegean islands? Our island country, however, has many problems, while we believe that the sea is the heart of Greece. We really need to understand, the sea is the heart of Greece. This is our blue country, which our barbaric neighbours view with their German allies and that none of our islands are far away. Continuing to the second part, on the basis of Article 16, the beneficiaries of the transport equivalent are the permanent inhabitants of the islands, who are using the only number of islands, at the time of the issue of their tickets, are financed by different transport costs. Accordingly, the beneficiary companies established on the islands may be included in the action by submitting requests to finance the transport of their goods ‘from’ and ‘to’ the islands. However, from this measure, Crete, Evia and Lefkada are again excluded, if Crete was not finally included, and here, as we think the Minister, Lefkada and Evia apparently said, because they have road access. However, should the Evia affected, for example in Eretria - Oropo, not rely on this measure? Isn't it self-evident? Furthermore, we have asked why, in paragraph 2, the conclusion of programme contracts is provided for by general and indefinitely mentioned research centres, institutes or any other body deemed necessary. Does anyone suspect of a chance to break up public money? Article 17 states that by a decision of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Immigration Policy of the party-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority. This substantiates the status of arrogance and the authoritarianity of the government which has degraded Parliament to applaud, as far as its own Members and JEPs are concerned, a declaration of law in relation to opposition. Article 18, refers to article 51 of Law 4676/2020 of the same government, while it relates to the beneficiaries of the "ANO" who are permanent residents of the islands, including obviously foreigners, illegal immigrants who have taken mass asylum to stop being illegal against the Government and members of non-profit organizations. However, we were impressed by the logic of prediction for the homeless. Like anyone mentioned, do the homeless move by boat or use fuel? Why not take care of decent housing for the homeless even in the islands that certainly have free spaces and a small number of homeless people? Isn't it a shame not to do that? As far as businesses are concerned, we are of course positive, but under conditions, saying that it is reasonable to lay limits so that there is no abuse by large and strong enterprises. We believe, however, that the turnover is not representative, nor the whole of the assets, but need additional criteria. For example, it is not reasonable to strengthen a luxury restaurant or a multi-ethnic chain boutique in Mykonos in case it has a turnover of up to 40m euros. In Article 20, we did not agree that by decision of the Minister for Maritime Affairs, the beneficiaries of the 'ANOKO' are defined as well as their special terms and conditions. With regard to Article 21, we have pointed out the great delay in the payments of the 'ANOOO' which effectively cancels the measure to a large extent when it comes to the poor, militant and so on. In particular, while more than three years have passed since the adoption of the SYRIZA law, there are still problems in its implementation, which should have been completed by July 2021. Payments are delayed, in general, are bureaucratic and complex, several beneficiaries are ignored, others such as students living on the islands for their studies are not included, no common ministerial decisions have been adopted, and so on. Finally, with regard to Article 24, legislative authorisations to Ministers are excessive in relation to the definition of such important issues as the measure of the equivalent transport and the management of the project. In conclusion, we will repeat that this government will not literally leave anything standing. He will sell everything in order to be able to borrow and waste, among other things, for the acquisition of votes and with its own aim the division of power. After all, the New Democracy did the same in 2004-2009, which overcrowded our rich country, having the courage and cowardice later escape through the elections so as not to assume its responsibilities. Minister, I would just like you to answer me, when you can, if you did secure EUR 1 billion and from where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Logiadis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. The current draft law by the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy refers to the ratification of a code on integrated maritime policy in the area of islands and the general conditions for the implementation of the transport equivalent. Ladies and gentlemen, what comprehensive maritime policy in the island area do you talk about when Turkish fishing almost every day invade the Greek seas within a hundred metres from the coasts of the islands of the eastern Aegean, Samos, Agathonisi, Leros, Leros, Kalymnos and elsewhere without any reaction and impact? As the research director of the Institute for Marine Protection denounces Archipelagos from Samos Ambassador to the European Union on sustainable maritime policy hydrobiologist Mr. Anastasia Milios Turkish fishing is often changing flags at sea and also putting their automatic electronic tracking system out, issues that we have shown you in the past with our questions. What are you talking about when a chartered cruise ship "SEA DIAMOND" with thousands of tons of fuel that flow into the sea is abandoned for fourteen years at the seabed of Santorini in the most tourist port of the Mediterranean, forming a time bomb for the environment, society and tourism, when another cruise ship "COST CONCORDIA" has been plunged in less than two years, has it been lifted and gone for recycling? We're still looking at this. What are you talking about when with the money of the Greek taxpayer the ports and infrastructure, which fall within the TEAD and our entire public property, has been allocated for ninety years to the institutions, which then the superstition privatizes them and sells them out? What are you talking about when Greece does not have shipyards or ship dissolutions, as the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce points out? Our country has one of the largest fleets in the world and its ships build them in Japan, Korea and elsewhere. And the ships being dismantled are sending them to Turkey, which is using them for its benefit. We don't even have a Greek classification. It's been closed for years, and the workers on it are still unpaid. What did you do about all this? Absolutely nothing. Let us note that two weeks ago the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy triumphed that he secured a billion euros to secure critical works and links to Greece's island and wider maritime area. The lion's share will, of course, be submitted to those shipowners who are so well aware of and the Laskaridis statements on the assessment of the world of shipping in the respective government. Mr Minister, as Cretan you are well aware of the issue concerning the equivalent of transport and Crete. The Presidents of the Selinos Farm Associations of Chania Mr.Halkias, Tymbakis, Heraklion Mr. Orphanoudakis, Sitia Lasithi Mr. Tsifetakis and Ierapetra Lasithi Mr. Gaitanis have highlighted many issues and have stressed that farmers are delaying their money, which causes them great survival problems. For the citizens of Crete, the aid applicable to other islands does not apply to their transition to the mainland. This is how Crete is being punished and punished. Furthermore, as far as the central point of each economy, the fuel sector in Crete, once again, does not apply to the other islands with the equivalent of transport. Fuel in Crete is much more expensive than in the other islands, which burdens the cost and competitiveness of product production and the sustainability of society. The other issue with regard to the equivalent of goods is the cost of tickets and transport for the citizens themselves and for their families. At this point they are more burdensome than the other islanders. These are issues that we've raised with a lot of questions. Your Government, but also all the previous ones, did nothing about it. The transport equivalent must be extended to teachers in all the islands and the Cyclades, which are included in the measure of Transport Equivalent only if they are naturalized as permanent residents in the islands in which they work. The National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities proposes in Article 12 the inclusion of a representative of the ESEMA in the Board of Island Policy. Until yesterday, a prolonged lockdown in Heraklion has burdened the already damaged economy with what this entails for workers and businesses. Your measures destructively and foreignly. The President of the people's markets of Heraklion Mr.Michalis Papadakis denounces that for the production of cucumbers and tomatoes in greenhouses Greece was given support because of koroni, but in Crete nothing. In Crete, the Government only supported you with the support of potato and watermelon production, but then you got the aid back from the returnable advance of the producers. Last March ELGA went to Crete for the disasters of potato due to frost, but support money was not given yet. I should also like to stress the great increase in feed and fertiliser costs. A fertilizer bag, which last year cost twenty - thirty euros, this year costs fifty to sixty. Increased costs on one hand and reduced prices on the other. How do these people survive? Here I would like to remind you that a few years ago the protection of the border regions of Greece was abolished. You are then deceiving our agricultural products over time, so everything is being sold out. Targeted and fully designed disaster. This story keeps good, so it goes on. By this draft law, the Government is attempting to communicate the major issue of maritime policy and of Transport Equivalent. This draft law is a codification of existing provisions and is the first of the codes drawn up by the Central Coding Committee. The purpose of codification is to enable both citizens and administrative bodies to have a direct and clear knowledge of island policy issues. The problem, however, in this case is that we are dealing with the codification of bad provisions, which we have recently voted against in favour of at No 4770/2021. With every move towards digital governance, everything is finally harmonious and nice to the independent of our democracy, but fully dependent on the Troika AIA. In today's digital era the hub for us at Mera25 is to whom this platform belongs, which contains very sensitive information and data, but whose property is the software of it. No one knows which foreign company can interfere with a button in our tax software. In the digital age this represents a maximum risk and full dependence on the outside for Mera25. All three PASOK governments - Change Movement, New Democracy and SYRIZA who have signed the Memorandums accepting the unbearable and disastrous primary surpluses, have thus imposed huge over-taxation, direct and indirect. In this way, you are strengthening the economy, the black labour, the unscrupulous invoices. You know all this well, but you do nothing and drive society and the economy into the destruction and sale of the ports, public and private property, so that the huge companies and beer can come and buy them all and exploit them. As MERA25, we call all this an integrated policy that you screwed up. We in Mera25 are now the only solution to the break, the 'no', the veto, as established and valid within the European Union. The European Union must move directly into a democratic federation of the peoples, otherwise we are all done together. That is why our pan-European movement, Diem25, has been maintained and is fighting. We oppose the privatisation of ports and infrastructures, as in Germany, in hydrocarbons mining, in software that does not belong to the Greek State and behind them are the ADI and the Troika. We stress the need to delimit EEZ for the installation of floating wind turbines and not terrestrial, as has been done, Minister, in the archaeological site of Ierapetra or the huge wind farm of Sitia. Our proposal as Mer25 regarding the coastline connection of the islands with the mainland and between them is summarised in the following: Public utilities for the interconnection of the islands. According to the memorandum, the contract for the communication of the islands lasts only for four months. Also, many ports are problematic and ships cannot approach. The islands are entitled to a public body on board a public fleet, which, together with the upgrading of the port infrastructure, will be financed through the ESDP and financed for the interconnection of islands between them and the islands with the centre, so that people and goods can move freely and on a daily basis with costly travel, with kilometric criteria corresponding to those of the mainland. Public coasting must function as a public social asset with emphasis on the remote and small islands, with the intra-movement of islands from islands to islands, with an island cabotage to islands, with the enhancement of the presence, growth and prosperity especially in the Aegean Sea. Further we propose three hundred sixty-five days interconnecting the islands with the creation of the public fleet. In the transitional period until the establishment of the public fleet, the price of transporting people, goods and fuels with kilometre criteria, as we have said, is increasing, as is the case in mainland Greece. We are proposing the construction of modern and sufficient port facilities where the fleet should be made up of modern and safe ships. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to ask you as Minister of Crete to take a position on the unanimous decision of the Region of Crete on the complete restoration of the burial monument of the national benefactor and leader of the Cretan revolution Antonio Papadakis located at the First Cemetery of Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are entering the list of speakers. Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about codification of maritime law. It is an opportunity to assess the course of the relevant legislation to date. I shall refer to two of the chapters of the legislation, of the code. First of all, as far as the strategy is concerned. This year, the first time was legislated to draw up a marine space strategy, and that was something that had to exist in our country for years, as it is under way I would like to contribute two specific points to the strategy. In our homeland, the maritime strategy must take into account our own, internal data, international conditions, geopolitical data and international economic trends. Let me say two examples: a national maritime strategy cannot be drawn up and we cannot take account of illegal migratory flows, which create ever-changing maritime surveillance needs from the port. A work that has been done very well in practice in recent years, especially this year in 2020 and 2021 in the Aegean Sea. We cannot, however, take into account what will happen in the future. In the future, therefore, illegal migration flows from the south are expected to increase. That is where the situation in Libya leads, but above all the situation in sub-Saharan Africa. This means that the strategic planning of the port must be adapted accordingly and this should be reflected in the national strategy. This means that the port infrastructure of the Libyan coast must be upgraded to allow for the port of large ships. Such a case of great work, for the data of the area, which must be done, is the port of Sfakia, Minister. The Port of Chania has sent you the study, a study for a project of 11 million and the upgrading of this port. The port of Paleochora accordingly. So, Minister, this is an example of how international conditions should affect our maritime space and our projects strategy. The second point is hydrocarbons. There is often the view that, as renewable energy is developed, hydrocarbons are of less importance, so - some say - we can stop mining planning. I disagree and it is superficial to read the data of the global economy's energy sources. The European Union can plan a drastic reduction in its consumption of natural gas, oil and, in general, hydrogen - and good - but the world is not just Europe. Asia and Africa are growing rapidly and consuming natural gas. Even if Europe achieves its objectives - I hope, but it is not certain - there will always be an increased demand from the rest of the world, which today leads to the latest forecasts of the international energy agency, the International Energy Agency, to talk about increasing the consumption of gas in absolute numbers. It can be reduced as a percentage of the total, because the others are increasing, but as the total energy consumption on the planet increases, in absolute terms gas consumption is increasing. Well, that and after 2030. So we cannot dismiss our rights in this area. We cannot deprive this wealth of the next generations. Our national, defence strategy and maritime strategy must also include that. The next chapter, to which I wish to refer, is that of the transport equivalent. The European Union and the Greek state are right to try to strengthen residents and businesses on the islands to reduce the disadvantage that economic life on the islands has due to transport costs. The previous government failed to include the companies in Crete in the transport equivalent. So much interest was shown in Crete, so much he reasoned the Cretans, that he would pay for the transport costs to the companies of all the islands, outside Crete. This distortion had to be corrected and corrected. Let's not forget that those who are trying to move our fingers. And if they forget, we'll remind them. But today, ladies and gentlemen, we can assess transport policy more generally. Is this politics working? I'm afraid red tape makes it not working as we would like. Of the 40 million generally provided for in this policy, today in Crete, which is obviously the largest potential recipient, some over 4 million have been absorbed. It seems that for many small and medium-sized enterprises, the cost of managing the transport equivalent is so great that it is not worth the trouble of entering the recovery process. I have heard that from specific cases of business. If a small and medium-sized enterprise to collect a few hundred euros must install a parallel accounting office or assign a very detailed job abroad, which is afflicting it in the day-to-day process of carrying out its work, it may not do so at all. The company sees this bureaucratic work and is not involved in some cases. Where to see the citizen and the company, what is being done on the part of the state to complete this policy. In other words, it should look at the control procedures that exist, which have a very large cost. Have we ever calculated this management cost? It's a lot of thousands of man-hours. It is a Soviet system, to say so, it does not fit us and it is not effective. It was necessary to correct the distortion that was corrected. But we need to see the next day. For me, the complex system of transport equivalent must be replaced by targeted reductions in VAT on specific products and services on the islands and on Crete. at least small, very small, as much as the money we can afford from the transport equivalent plus the cost of managing it. Because then we will give the market the opportunity with an additional liquidity, to develop in a way that compensates for the costs of operating at the very high transport costs. Unfortunately, the state cannot count on what the market calculates on a large scale. This was the message of the collapse of bureaucratic centralised regimes. We must move forward and move on differently. Just two more words, Minister. The Port Fund of Chania has submitted a complete study of projects for funding. I've already referred to Sfakia and Paleohora. There are still some works to be done at the port of Souda. In particular, there are upgrading projects which need to be integrated into funding, but also in other areas that have not yet been guaranteed funding, such as Agia Roumeli. Well, with these thoughts, the national maritime strategy is a major change in how we understand the Greek state and the growth potential of our country and we must all contribute to this dialogue because in the islands, in the Aegean Sea, in all the seas of our country the hearts of our country and its future are beating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, about five years ago, in 2016, if my memory is not cheating on me, when I was Mayor of Skyros, the Union of the Island Chambers in cooperation with the Evia Chamber had come to hold an annual conference in Skyros. And then we had the opportunity - I repeat, I was mayor in Skyros and we were happy to have them - to listen to the concerns of the island chambers and their requests. So, then, the authorities said that the question of transport equivalent - which is an important, very important part of this codification, but obviously the legislation introduced by the Greek Government - was a forty-forty-forty-forty, they said in 2016 - about islanders and chambers of islands. I repeat, in 2016, it had been forty years, as they have said themselves, and we had to come - so we are swinging your finger, Mr Colleague - a government which was not supposed to have any relations with the shipping groups or which did not have the logic that you blamed us and blame us on. So the administration of the Ministry of Shipping had to come to the SYRIZA Government with all the ministers and the State Secretarys, in order to meet a perfectly reasonable and just demand from the islands. And you didn't have to be very wise. You could just see how much supermarket or gasoline were costing Kalymnos, Skyros, Skopelos - you didn't have to be wise, we've all had to take a little vacation on islands, you don't even have to come from an island - and at the same time you were seeing in Athens, for example, or on mainland Greece, the prices were dramatically reduced in relation to the prices of simple goods, daily goods that the islands had to pay. The question of all the people who were involved that day was why it was not so many years, why the governments up until that day did not do something that was so obvious that it would help islanders. And you quite rightly said, Mr President, that the European Union and the Greek state now finally accept the importance of equating to the reality of what the people of the continental countries of Europe can enjoy with islands, because very simply anyone who has lived in winter on the islands and not summers, as most of us have in mind, understands that they are two completely different worlds. Different completely worlds! It is not easy to live on our islands, even on the developed islands, on what the rapporteur of the New Democracy knows very well and knows and naturally understands that it is not easy in winter - December, January, February - to live and try to raise your family in these islands. So obviously the transport equivalent had to be made, the provisions on the equivalent of transport. Obviously, SYRIZA's government did it. You should have kept them. Unfortunately, even there you have intervened, for example, in fuel. Whilst transport equivalent - and from us, from our government - is quite right, it has been done - on fuel, but where on fuel? Because we can now go to any island you want - because I have seen most islands - especially now that it is accurate, the price has exceeded 2 euros per litre on almost all islands. In England, therefore, transport equivalent. Because you are - you are right - often works dysfunctionally. It is very difficult and several businesses choose not to do the procedures. So what does the consumer do, so the citizen? He's paying for it. He pays for it 2,2,3, may be worse on some other islands. The pressure that has from the already huge inflation that we have been living in these days is even worse on the islands. And it had to be two years and a development programme in which we fortunately had some tools and the New Democracy Government has shown that it understands the positive effects of our government. And I'll speak in particular. He has used the tools that the SYRIZA government has created for the first time to be able to draw funds and thankfully at least - you may have been delayed two years - you are trying to implement these financial instruments that we have shown you. You've done it at the Home Office for the OTAs. "PHILIDEMO" renamed it to "TITIS" which was the best development tool that has spent the last decades in the country for OTAs and thus targeted projects. The same development tool we had for the Ministry of Shipping and for island policy you have unfortunately left it, you have not implemented it, but at least you take the form of the tools we have created through the financing of the Development Bank and the Deposit and Loan Fund and you are creating a financial instrument. You're right. Indeed, Minister, and because I know the Secretary-General, who are helping you in your work, you are doing very well. We had to come here to do something very simple, to see how we could finance development projects in a country that was bankrupt when we did it, to implement it, even two years later - because you are more than two years old government - and a programme that you had announced many times since the start of your term of office is finally done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We really hope to give impetus. We expect to see how it will be financed and what amount it will be financed, because the needs of the islands are enormous. We expect to see how it will be implemented - and I close with that, Madam President - the small islands and especially the local authorities, the municipalities of the very small islands when they will finally be able and on what terms they will be equal to the rest of Greece. That's what we expect to see, because you've said it too many times. Unfortunately, you know very well - and perhaps better than me - that small islands are disadvantaged in everything, especially those who do not have the chance to be very tourists. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You will allow me, because there has been a change in the list, instead of Mr Ljupi, to give the floor to Mr Butsikaki from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of islandity is enshrined both in our Constitution and in European law. However, the legislative initiatives in this area have so far been very few, with the exception of the law brought by this government and you for the integrated maritime policy in the area we voted on last January. With this law, Greece has acquired for the first time a well-designed island policy, a policy with a new holistic strategy, taking into account the identity, uniqueness, the needs and prospects of the private islands, with development objectives and a distinct action plan in all areas, with clear measurable indicators at national and regional level, with a design including maritime ports, maritime infrastructure, maritime cabotage, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, maritime surveillance and security strategy, blue-professional jobs, employment and investment in the blue economy, digital governance, health, welfare and education, with a national strategy to be assessed and reviewed at regular intervals to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of its objectives and programmes. What happened before that law? The legislative initiatives taken in previous years have been fragmentary and have already been subjected to many amendments. On the governance of the previous SYRIZA government, we had a hundred and twenty-eight amendments in general on island policy. That is, I think, the definition of bad legislature. As a result, access to relevant provisions must be made particularly difficult, especially when the person who is required to apply them is not an experienced legal person. The codification of the arrangements together with the law was prepared by the Central Coding Committee, in which many congratulations are due. Encoding and reforming law are good legislation practices, practices that put an end to pluralism and maladministration, practices that contribute to legal certainty and to the simplification of everyday life in both administration and citizens. Furthermore, citizens and administrations can have direct access and safe knowledge of the overall legislation on island policy issues. In the context of the codification of the provisions on integrated maritime policy in the area of insularity for the transport equivalent, the arrangements for the responsibilities of the administrative bodies and the modern names of the relevant ministries shall be adjusted. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] The direct benefit of improving the functioning of the public administration is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the policies implemented in the island area. Indirect benefit, fair treatment of citizens and increased credibility and transparency of institutions. The current draft code is the first to be dealt with by the Central Committee for Coding and thankfully many others will follow, because codification of legislation will continue and must continue for everyone's benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is not just confined to objectives, because it is not important not to proclamations and intentions, but to substance and result. We are therefore exploiting the advantages of the Greek islands and working towards the overall development of the maritime economy. We support this huge pillar of the Greek economy, since in island Greece 25% of GDP is generated. As a result of the increase in the funds for barren lines, the connection with the islands is much better than in previous years. From now on, emphasis must be placed on specific programmes for aid and development, especially of the small islands and of each one of them, so that our fellow citizens are not forced to leave to work elsewhere, especially young people with a view to their country. Thus, instead of deserting, our islands will become a pole of attraction, not only for tourists, but also for most permanent residents from abroad. Because we have as an example the digital nomads, which prefer Greek islands, so that they can sit and do their job from here. The aim is therefore to increase the population, to develop the local economy, to prosper our islands and to prosper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u24	We will give the floor now to Mr. Dritsa from SYRIZA, and then we will give Mr. Ljupi the floor. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we need to point out is that this bill is introduced with a title quite a celebrity: 'Codification, etc.', with reference to Article 76 of the Constitution in paragraph 7. However, paragraph 6 of the Constitution describes precisely the concept of codification of laws, in a procedure which also describes the recommendation by means of a special law of a competent committee and all of this. And in Article 7 it complements the Constitution that in the same way codification can be made by simple classification. That is what Article 76(7) says. Here is a question mark about what could be understood as 'the same way'. So, the person referred to in paragraph 6? In any case, I am going beyond that. We are not constitutionalists anyway. It's not me. It is clear, therefore, that what is being introduced today is not codification. It's another thing to codify. So as long as we still have the sitting in plenary, Mr Minister, you could restore it. And that's not a detail, a strange one or a formality. It is precisely the term under which the Constitution describes every legislative initiative. Therefore, you have the time to put a title in this draft 'Codification by simple classification', since you refer it to paragraph 7 of Article 76 and correctly. This will give us the opportunity and the opportunity to discuss in time whether, in the overall maritime legislation, a real, long and serious job, as provided for in Article 76(6) of the Constitution, is required to codify maritime law at all levels, which is an interesting perspective, needed in reality now, and which wants a very good plan and a lot of work and is not just one government to do so. So I suggest that you do this, the title being "Code by simple sorting" and essential. After all, our rapporteur, Andreas Michaelides, and my colleague, Mr Hatzigiannakis, and others have mentioned the fact that we do not have anything new, because all that is contained in this simple classification has actually been discussed and voted on as laws. And SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has been placed, has taken place for all this. Of course, we cannot, after the time that has passed since these provisions have been passed, ask ourselves why they have not been formalised and the Ministerial Decisions on critical issues have not been signed, because the drafts have not been submitted, the report on equivalent transport, because there has not been a serious and reasonable solution to the financing of several such initiatives, whether or not anyone agrees with them. In any case, we note that at multiple levels all of what is contained in this simple classification has not gone ahead. This is a very crucial issue because it makes no sense for Parliament to legislate, even in the wrong direction, if this does not take its place in the day-to-day regulation of the public and private spheres regulated by legislation. I will be standing on the transport equivalent for a while, pointing out what the previous representatives of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance have pointed out that this very important legislative initiative - historically, I would say - is not taking advantage of the SYRIZA when we were a government. Not upgraded, exploited, unpublished, no attempt is made to involve all beneficiaries in this story. But KINAL's special speaker, Mr. Biagis, said that we are forgetting Tasos Alipheris, this pioneer mayor of Telos, who has lost him too early, who left his big seal in battle for the equivalent of transport. Not at all. Not only do we forget Tasos Aliferis, we have devoted all our energy to regulating transport equivalents to all the SYRIZA ministers, all the MPs, all the island parliamentarians, not just in his memory, but in his struggle. Because Tasos Alipheris did not belong to the SYRIZA or the Indoor JCC. It belonged to a wider space on the left and was not only fighting - and that is what we have to keep, Minister, and all of us - for what we have achieved so far. He fought for a transport equivalent that will also apply to visitors of the islands, Greeks and foreigners, so that the islands will be implemented, i.e. the special support of the islands, equivalent to the other tourist and visiting parts of Greece that are in the land area. That was the fight of Tassos Aliferis and that is why he was going to Brussels and the other European capitals and to all the political offices of the parties to find a uniform and European solution to this issue. And we owe it not only to Tasos Aliferis and his memory, but also to islands and islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We achieved this, and Nektarios Santorinios took the lead in this case, but we know very well that we are not done and we are not resting on our laurels. It is in the front of this need if we really want to talk about island policy. I shall conclude, Mr President. I've taken more time to report to the transport equivalent and to Tasos Aliferis. But, Minister, there are a few issues outside of a bill, such as 'COSCO' and 16%. You challenge with your colleague the Minister of Finance a joint meeting of the Committees on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Trade and call on all the producing bodies in Piraeus that are related to the port before you sign up and before you bring this agreement to ratification, which - we will talk when it is time - is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u26	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u27	As regards the refugee issue, Mr Minister, at last this secretory and refusal of real events, obliging representatives of the Greek state, of the port officers to illegally and conceal - we will enter another phase in this debate - is incomprehensible and underestimated by the Port House. From there on are the stories about the waste, the stories about the cavalry and the beach and the role of the Port Authority, the stories about the disappearance of the IAL and the degradation of the RAL and the stories about the problems that we had arranged after many years, presented by the coastline in the northern Aegean and much more. But that's what they want. They want a separate conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u28	The next speaker is Mr Liupis Athanasios from New Democracy and then Mr Cappatos also from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are an island country with a huge coastline, with thousands of islands, islands, rock islands and a rich maritime tradition. We lived and lived from the sea and always the sea is an integral part of the Greek territory. The island policy concerns 25% of GDP and 15% of the population. That is why we must preserve marine wealth and at the same time support islands and island regions, with an emphasis on blue growth and the protection of the marine environment. Today's bill represents a worthwhile effort to concentrate, classify and codify legislation on island policy. The Government has, from the outset, set as the general objective the codification of the legislation so that the diffuse legal rules are brought together in a piece of legislation according to their subject-matter. Multilateralism is one of the well-known problems we face that is confusing and has a serious impact on the implementation of legislation and on the effective functioning of the state mechanism. Today's legislative initiative concerns the codification of the overall island policy and the legislation on transport equivalent, so that a single text can be easily accessible and understood by all, citizens, public services and law enforcement. L.4770 has already set the framework for integrated maritime policy in the island area. The national strategy includes every possible aspect of marine life and economy, such as ports, maritime transport, competitiveness and entrepreneurship, security, maritime professions and investment, digital governance, health and education. In relation to the equivalent of transport, key interventions have been made by the Ministry of Shipping in order to be more of the beneficiaries. Especially in Sporades, there was a question that was excluded from the transport equivalent of those who were not obliged to submit a tax declaration, which was restored by the intervention of the current head of the Ministry. The transport equivalent, as we all know, aims to equate transport costs from mainland Greece to the island or from island to island with the same costs as the same distance in mainland Greece. Relevant applications are submitted electronically by the beneficiaries, while bodies responsible for implementation are defined departments of ministries and municipalities. The initial application of the transport equivalent from the previous government had excluded the companies in Crete. It was at the initiative of the current leadership of the Ministry of Shipping, which extended the transport equivalent to Cretan enterprises. The overall balance sheet of operations in shipping is particularly positive over the past few years. The coastline increased significantly to cover better the needs of our islands, while the money given to the barren lines from EUR 90 million to EUR 138 million in 2021 increased. The new ferry connection of Thessaloniki, Mr. Minister, with the Sporades islands was crowned by absolute success this summer, contributing dynamically to the great tourist movement that took place in Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos. This line had several times 100% allowed completeness and significantly helped the economic recovery of the islands compared to the previous year. In relation to the forthcoming actions in the area of the island economy, very significant funds have been provided. Approximately EUR 1,000 million will be directed towards the coastline and the ports of the islands, while resources are provided by both the NRP and the Recovery Fund. Forty-four insular and interregional coastlines are financed with 370,000,000 euros, while providing incentives for the renewal of the fleet by the NSRF 2021-2027. With the new special "Newarkhos" programme, funding will be provided through investment loans from the Deposit and Loan Fund for public projects, EUR 200,000,000 over four years for port projects and EUR 300,000,000 for the financing of ferry lines involving the launch of new vessels. From the Recovery Fund for eleven actions aimed at protecting the marine environment 20,000,000 euros. In conclusion, because the government envisions island policy as a whole and not as individual interventions, I would like to refer to an issue that I have raised many times with the relevant Ministry of Home Affairs: the designation and definition of the municipalities as'small islands'. The Municipality of Skopelos and four other island municipalities in the Aegean Sea, with a population of between three and a half and five thousand, face the same problems as those characterized by ‘small islands’, i.e. those with fewer than three and a half thousand inhabitants. It is a constant request for these municipalities to be subject to the category of small island municipalities, so that they have the same privileges and the same treatment. The government puts 'blue' growth at the forefront at the same time as increased care of the natural marine environment. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis recently announced the government's commitment to protecting marine biodiversity by reducing overfishing, implementing marine spatial planning, addressing maritime pollution and developing sustainable tourism. New, brave environmentally friendly policies are engraved along with the promotion of measures for the financial support and blossoming of our islands. The islanders often feel disfellowshipped from the mainland. Geographically that happens. However, the government is constantly implementing its planning, so that the inhabitants of the islands have access to services and infrastructure, so that they feel that they are equal citizens and enjoy the same rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. We will now give the floor to Mr Cappato Panayia from New Democracy, will be followed by Mr Armalene and then by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr Scandalidis. Here, Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy on both the ratification of the Code of Law on Integrated Maritime Policy in the Island and the implementation of the transport equivalent is one of the examples of the bills, which, in order to be drawn up, require a clear view in the big picture from us. The great picture is other than the institutional environment and the conditions put in place by national governments to take active decisions. The European Union itself has recognised that climate change and environmental degradation, including loss of biodiversity, are direct and existential threats to human life and prosperity. These are threats that jeopardise the foundations of our society and our economy, by maintaining, restoring and sustainable use of our seas as an integral part of a common European strategy. In this context, the European Green Agreement has recently been adopted as a strategy aimed at transforming the European Union into a modern, efficient, resource-efficient, and competitive economy. This is an agreement - a post in modern European history with basic guidelines for zero net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, economic development disconnected from the use of resources, as well as the need for no human and no region to remain on the sidelines. In the light of this Green Agreement, a sustainable blue economy and sustainable use of oceans and seas within the framework of the European Union's integrated maritime policy play a key role. Given that the oceans and seas are regarded as part of the solution to what is at stake, the Council of the European Union has recently made a series of guidelines and conclusions which are of particular concern to us. These are, in particular, the recognition of the framework directive on the maritime strategy as a pillar of the integrated maritime policy, a policy aimed, on the one hand, at achieving and maintaining a sustainable environmental status for the maritime waters of the Member States of the European Union and, on the other, at contributing to a sustainable use of maritime goods and services by current and future generations. In this direction we record priorities, which we incorporate in our common European attitude. It is both an effective coordination of European and national policies and regional and transnational cooperation as a means of achieving these objectives. Strengthening the potential of the coastal and maritime sector, as well as the protection of coastal and maritime ecosystems, summarize the logic behind which the policies mentioned above are decided and implemented. The draft law we are debating and voting on today concerns precisely the great picture. In the light of a reasonable, sustainable development, in line with national and European legislation, we define the framework for the design and specificisation of the guidelines of our national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area. At the same time, we identify specific development policies and funding programmes related to the maritime economy and islands, we coordinate critical public policies, which are linked to the marine space, and more specifically: port policy, maritime ports and maritime infrastructure, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, blue professions, employment and investment in the blue economy, and finally, areas such as digital governance, health, welfare and education. In order for the strategy we recommend to be effective and sustainable, a specific programme for aid and restructuring of the productive development model for island regions shall be drawn up. This is the funding programme for island entrepreneurship, which creates the appropriate financial instruments and instruments that ensure the necessary resources in different forms of funding. It concerns SMEs in particular, small and micro-enterprises active in the maritime economy sector to enhance their sustainability, innovation and competitiveness. With regard to monitoring the strategy and guidelines of the maritime and maritime economy policy, the Board of Island Policy, which will operate within the framework of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, is presented in Chapter 5. It will be under the authority of the Prime Minister to give an opinion on the development, planning and implementation of island policies. Finally, a particular position in this draft law is the arrangements for equivalent transport and specialise strategies that facilitate the everyday life of both citizens and the lawmaker. In practical terms, a clear timetable, clear specifications and criteria is set, so that there is no doubt as to what is being done and how. We eliminate, in other words, any gaps found in understanding the letter of the law, making its application easier. Ladies and gentlemen, in my report I have attempted to highlight two points. On the one hand, the institutional environment and European conditions and, on the other, the legislative initiatives that adapt our national strategy to that context. None of these guidelines, however, can be converted into tangible public policy without planning, objective and effect. The leadership of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Yiannis Pakisotakis, the Secretary-General, and of the Secretary-General of the Council. Koutoullakis and Kyriazopoulou. As well as Mrs Christiana Kalogeros, who served at the General Secretariat in the recent past, are always present in the problems, the proposals and needs of the island world. In Kefalonia and Ithaca we have been able to monitor in practice their political will and operational readiness. The disasters of Janos, the Mediterranean Cyclone that hit our islands, found the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis ready to meet the many challenges that followed. The leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy has been present since the first moment in its remit, and I must thank the Minister for that. The plan we are discussing and our proven effectiveness is to guarantee the implementation of an island policy for the benefit of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u32	All right, thanks to Mr. Cappato. We will give the floor now to Mr. SYRIZA. As I said before, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr.Scandalidis will follow and then Mr.Scandalidis, Mr.Consolas and Mr. Synthetakis. Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all before I come to the issue of the bill, I would like to welcome the resumption by living the thirty-two-second meeting of the amateur rainbows of the Aegean, twenty-four triumphs, made up of amateurs, and today begins a ten-day performance in Naxos. For the second time in Naxos after 1996, dedicated to the late James Kabaneli and the Theatre of 1821, on the occasion of the two hundred years since the Revolution of 1821. So I would like to say that, of course, codification is taking place, and other colleagues have pointed it out, but because the New Democracy Government has allergies with what SYRIZA has introduced, what you have done is to abolish what we had established for codification through Law 4606/2019. So now, with about three years' delay - you are almost two and a half years running - you are going to apply this codification. Mr Dritsas told you some very important remarks of a constitutional and legal nature that you need to see. So you are codifying maritime policy today, which is obviously also an island policy. That's where the big questions come in. Firstly, why did you not vote in favour when the last preparation for the Constitutional Review was made, which received in the first vote a provision on the specificity of the administration's island area? It was a proposal from Mr Antony Syrigo, who took a hundred and seventy votes in the first vote. In the second vote you cancelled this provision, and where you want to say that you are defending island policy, you did not vote for it. Secondly, why have you abolished the portfolio of Deputy Minister for Island Policy and left this responsibility only to the Secretariat-General? Thirdly, what policies of insularity have you implemented the two and a half years that you are ruling? With the exception of the increase in the funds from 93 to 138 million for subsidising the barren lines, namely the subsidisation of shipowners and shipowners, what other policy have you implemented on the islands? Tell us specifically. Fourthly, what is your policy towards increasing VAT rates, an issue on which you have based your entire propaganda in previous years, where I would remind you that it was a provision that was included in the cardouval mail - so that we do not forget - and that was demanded by creditors in the summer of 2015. What, then, have you implemented island policies? As you say that for the first time, you are implementing an island policy, I will tell you, by speeding up some of the issues that we promoted following the announcements of Alexis Tsipras in December 2016 in Nisros, the following: Firstly, we founded the aerospace base in Syros, a request for decades. Secondly, we founded the Hospital of Santorini and strengthened much of the health centres of the islands. Thirdly, we have created for environmental issues bodies in protected areas, both in the Dodecanese and the Cyclades. You abolished it by the law of Hatzidakis. Fourthly, in the primary sector we have created institutionalised eco-technologies policies so that producers can promote their products in neighbouring regions as well. Fifthly, we have financed a large number of projects to the island municipalities under the "Philodimos I" and "Philodimos II" programmes. Sixthly, we have created the special North and South Aegean development programme, which was then designated as a second ESDP. Seventh, we have legalised ports and port facilities which have been considered illegal for years and decades. Eighth, we incorporated a series of sports projects and a series of other works. I will not say any more, but there are also serious reforms, which have also been carried out within the Ministry of Shipping with the Public Administration of Ports, and with a number of other situations which are not the time, and it was quite rightly said that a special committee on the 'COSCO' issue should be held. Last, not last, the transport equivalent. A genuine emblematic measure which Tasos Aliferis and the other mayors of small islands have had for decades as an emblem and started with our own governance. But you know why you underestimated it and lowered it? Because you consider this policy of transport equivalent state intervention and a subsidy policy. You have an allergy to what you consider state interference. It does not come as a result of the so-called - what you have established - self-regulation of the market. That is what you want, self-regulation of the market. The transport equivalent is indeed a state intervention which starts to institutionalise the equivalence of island Greece with mainland Greece. Of course, we did not have time to complete this reform and you came. In the islands, unleaded has gone over two euros, 1,750 had gone with pilot intervention at thirty a small island. Go now to the stations on the islands and you will see that they range from 2,030 to 2,050. These are the results of your own policy and, of course, all civil servants and officials must join the beneficiaries. Other colleagues have said so, and others have said so. All civil servants, teachers, etc. Therefore, the transport equivalent is an emblematic measure, which you cannot abolish because it has passed into the islands' consciousness, even though you would like to. For the Island Policy Board. It never worked. It did not work - and here we are responsible and I accept it - but what you are doing now is an inter-ministerial agency. It is not an island policy council, which expresses both local actors and local communities. You've put six, seven people from the Ministries and a Prime Minister's representative in there you put a representative of the Rector, if I remember well, and one of the chambers from all the islands. In conclusion, I would like to say that what you are establishing today is not an integrated maritime policy, it is a lame maritime policy. Neither an integrated island policy nor an equivalent transport policy is complete, nor is the Isle of Island Policy Council, which you are now institutionalising, really can deal with a holistic policy on the islands. I think it is time that a new government, with SYRIZA's backbone, will again adopt substantial policies for our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u34	Good. We will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u35	Eventually, we're a lot of bridesmaids. But I have a course, guys. You ask us whether we will work with the New Democracy. Mitsotakis comes out the other day and says "I children, I made the law of simple proportionality to make two elections, to take self-reliance again". And yet they're asking us if we're going to work with the New Democracy. Uncircumcised question and no subject, just to speak. They come after the other side and the neo-democratics say "you want to work with SYRIZA". We don't go to say a thousand times a day that we have an autonomous course, that only if we become the protagonists of developments as an autonomous party will we be able. In no one's body, obviously, because we think we have a better answer than all of you, and that's where and everywhere. Well, that goes on. To come to the point now that it's not a party at all. It is a national matter and I have a pain because I have been working on it for many years. First of all, to codify, Minister, I think that from the outset it is a positive procedure. It facilitates the more effective and rapid implementation of policy, both for the government, and for the state administration, and for local and regional institutions. I wish it were at all levels. It is clear that Parliament still needs many codes and legislation is beginning to adapt to European standards. I'm really going now. The question is whether the policy followed ensures the balanced development of island Greece with the other regions of the country. The answer is, as I will explain below, not unequivocally. You will allow me for that a small regression. When the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes came in 1986 some important projects, mainly sewerage and hydroelectric on islands. In 1993, when we entered the government, a programme was being launched since 1988 for the overseas and island regions of the EEC at that time. The previous government from us had no idea from the program, he didn't even know that he was evolving to claim resources. At the end of the programme, we have taken 10 billion drachmas and selected ten islands and done one work on each symbolically. It doesn't mean we've solved any problems. I must say, therefore, that at the same time we decided from the Ministry of Interior to five times - take note - of the central self-resources in all the islands, which have a municipality to push those islands that had more municipalities to unite in a municipality and I will explain why below. Do you know what the five-fold increase in resources meant? It gave them life until the European Union decided to become a single entity after 2000, i.e. until 2002-2003 it received five times as much resources. For example, Kalymnos, if she took 200 million a year in central selfish resources, she took a billion. That was a revolution for the island. It was a decision, which gave a breath. In 2001, islandity, after a great and coordinated effort, was integrated as a mandatory direction in the Constitution. The transport equivalent is perhaps the only serious application of this obligation after struggles of many local players and I will come back to it. But that was the only thing, because I saw no government law - and I am talking about our own governments, I have no problem with it - taking special care of the island regions, as the Constitution imposes. For years - to say this here, because I have spoken about the equivalent of transport - I owe a special mention to two examples of mayors and Tasos Aliferis, who you all confess to, but he is my child friend and many years together, but also to Spyros Beneto in Leipzig. They are two islands where two bright mayors were found and they literally changed their image. They turned them into living societies. So they showed by their decisions how it is possible to get a underdeveloped place and develop it within a very short period of time. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this because the Greek state is chasing them for imprisonment. One, Aliferis, the boat he put in line. The man died without making a final decision to be convicted. And the other is still in court and asks the government - and I do well to endorse the request - to be able not to intervene in justice and to give or do something else, but in a spirit of seriousness to see the case and to stop this pursuit. It's amazing to make politics, develop your place, and personally pay the broken ones. I now come to the unparalleled policies that the governments have followed since the constitutional review. The constitutional order requires, as I have said, in any institutional, economic or social law, a special reference to a specific policy on the islands. What would that mean, gentlemen of the government, for the Development Fund? A special budget. Why, since there is so much money - you say that this is a great opportunity - the government did not bring regional budgets to the regional budgets, as it used to be - does the country no longer have such budgets, unfortunately - for island regions to have a special responsibility for more proportionate resources, in relation to the population and their size, so that they can actually make development projects? Secondly, what would it mean to prioritise institutions and development choices? Headquarters decided for everything. But every island municipality also knows the priorities, the objectives, and the needs, and it had to prioritise the development priorities and demand that the state enter in this order that local society decides in the development programme. Who's closer to the people than local government? In particular, on the basis of the principle of the proximity of the citizen - a charter of local autonomy - what can be decided at the place is a norm, apart from large projects, interregional and other projects. Where's that? Thirdly, what would it mean to digitise the state as a special priority island policy? The relentless Kremasti had been talking about telemedicine for years. I would remind you that the JEPs came as a follow-up to an experimental stage in the Aegean Sea, which showed how an island at a distance from the centre is able to communicate rapidly and effectively with the major administrative or other problems that the citizen has and his relations with the state. What would the application of this policy mean for VAT and transport? Are we all struggling to say the obvious, that VAT must be permanent and low for all islands and Crete, including? What would, for example, mean by transport equivalent to taking a more comprehensive form - it was a very positive step - and covering more than it covers up to now? Let's talk about it, but let's bring it and vote. Therefore, we have this discrepancy between the development needs of island Greece and the specific policies that are being pursued. I too think that because it is a national issue, let us make a consensual process and - if you like - the government that makes a decision to bring a regional budget for island Greece and see how we can in this budget incorporate these priorities. I now come to a final point, which relates to something that has been formally tormented for many years, the institutional mismatch, which islands would impose a different structure. There is an institutional mismatch. We made the mistake. In 1986, when we broke up the administrative regions of the country - it was the other late, Minoan Koutsogiorgas - in the Aegean Sea was relatively irrational. The Aegean is a single region. It has the characteristics of a special region. This is how the island regions are treated throughout Europe. The Ionian Sea, too, is a region that has the same problems as the Aegean and it was wrong at times what we were talking about doing to the islands of the eastern Aegean, which was the border area that had a sensitivity, then the rest of the Aegean, now the Ionian Sea - well do - is a separate region. The mistake is that we didn't identify the municipality with the state. The notion of a municipality on the island meant a concentration of productive economic forces and administrative mechanisms and a possibility for municipalities to pursue direct development policy through their own processes. The governments feared decentralisation, and that is unacceptable, because the institutions are fighting. Do you know how many years it took to become Rhodes' marina? Since 1980, we have been discussing it and across from the point of view of Turkey has done ten, within a minimum period of time. Do you know how many years it took for PPC to decide to build the factory in Rhodes? Do you know how many years the geothermality has been and has not been exploited in Niserus? Why? It is precisely because we have not given the responsibility for the decision, so also the responsibility for the state and for the criminal responsibility for the decision by the local institutions rather than any legal responsibility, and we have made balances, where the other party wants, where I want the third person. Meanwhile, in order to build a road or a hotel in Rhodes, it had to pay five times the amount of inert materials they carried, because they did not let mining on the island. Why can't the city decide about them? I say this as a minimum contribution to the need for more radical changes to islandity and I challenge the government - I say this with all due respect - to bring this debate to a table and to do it all from the outset, because I think now that we have the Recovery Fund and all these resources - which we all say are so great a chance for the country - that this period lost to our islands will also be a sin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We shall now give the floor to Mr Emmanuel Konsola from New Democracy. Mr. Synthrakis will be followed by the Communist Party and then Mr. Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you have noticed that the two Ministers, Mr Plakkatakis and Mr Katsafados, are islands, but also their members are islands. Today, as well as Mr Scandalidis, the other Members are island Members. There are signs of convergence, but we must also do our self-criticism and we must praise the good news of previous governments. I do not think that any of us, Mr Symmoleni, are questioning the work that has been done in previous government or in previous governments. Nobody. But we should also do our self-criticism, say that previous governments have also created pathogens. Mr Tsipras cannot, from his Rapid Conference in Rhodes, announce that we will safeguard island policy and abolish the reduced VAT rates at the time he became Prime Minister. So here we need to look in a global way at things and I am glad that Mr Scandalides recognised the pathogens. Let us not forget, however, that Mr Scandalides is an island, and he has made many positions of responsibility - so we must rationally see what we are doing from now on. The first thing we have to say is that the step taken by Mr Plakatakis and Mr Katsafandou is positive and is positively characterised by this legislative initiative by the Ministry, and indeed Mr Brutsis, our parliamentary representative and also by the other rapporteur for the Isle of the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Chartomas. So the government has a culture of understanding. We cannot question that this is an attempt that continues to be a very noteworthy work by Mr Santorini during the previous period, with regard to equivalent transport and other issues. That is why we have to say that the bill that comes today and we are talking about in the House shows something else that is needed. And Manos Konsolas doesn't say so, but you say so from the footsteps of all the orders. We need a comprehensive strategic plan for an island policy that represents a convincing response and a solution to the particular problems of islands. It is said that the bill is a firm basis, a sound basis, especially where the structural elements of the national strategy for island regions are concerned. Let me highlight these points. Port policy and infrastructure, a major issue in particular for the small islands of the eastern Aegean of the Dodecanese. Sea cabotage. Third point, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, especially at this time of crisis, sea surveillance and strategic sea security, the blue economy, infrastructure and digital governance services, and finally public health, welfare and education. The national strategy for island regions will therefore have substantial meaning and content if it begins to be translated into specific policies. It is extremely good that the first time after many years there are financial programmes and instruments available to implement actions in the field of island policy, and you must not be afraid to say them, because you are helping our islanders, our fellow citizens. The NEARTOS programme, which will finance infrastructure projects on the islands, is a large capital for the island economy. The funding programme for island entrepreneurship aimed at covering the liquidity access deficit for island enterprises and also the Maritime Blue Economy Fund financed through national funds through public investment programmes and also ESRF programmes and aimed at strengthening investment and business projects in the field of the maritime economy. Mr President, I would like to remind you of the need for the Ministry to acquire a sectoral programme for islands for the first time. And we had discussed with you, Mr Plakkatakis, in the previous period and with you, Mr Katsafados, a position I supported here in the House and outside of the House in my public speech, with warmth and I tabled relevant proposals during the consultations that took place at the Ministry's initiative to design the new ESDP for island and maritime policy in January 20 in Kos. I am pleased that it has been done and I congratulate you, Mr Minister, for that and you and Mr Katsafados. I am also very pleased to see an essential institutional step forward. I am referring to the codification of the legislation of the Ministry of Shipping. A move that should be imitated by other ministries. And I said earlier that I am pleased that the principle of the continuity of the state, the administration, is expressed by the leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and the island policy, which means that we recognize the efforts that have been made in the past. From there on, I would like to refer to the areas you are demarcating for the national strategy and the islands that are very clearly the building blocks of this partnership that we are all discussing here today. In particular, let me refer to maritime cabotage, which is a key problem for the small islands and their inhabitants, who are forced to move to larger islands in order to deal with their health issues. How many of us today or yesterday, at the weekend, did they deal with island health services? I am sure that many of us, Mr. Biagi, have dealt with going from Corfu to the other side or from the Paxes to Corfu. Same in the Aegean Sea with much more difficult situations. It is therefore an opportunity to take an initiative at European level in order to apply the principle of dual islandity to small islands. We must finally become a acquis right and an obligation for the state to do so. Incorporate dual island status into state aid policy and have free movement for a specific number of journeys for the inhabitants of the small islands. As a third objective in the national strategy, you have, Minister, set island competitiveness. Right, right, right, That's right. Because there is a serious problem and let me say why there is a problem. Today, resources are allocated to island regions and regions on the basis of Gross Domestic Product. So on the basis of GDP in the southern Aegean, Europe's most island region, it is in the thirty-sixteenth place between the two hundred and seventy-seven in Europe. However, on the basis of competitiveness, the southern Ionian Sea retreates to the two hundred and fifty-seventh quarters between two hundred and seventy regions. It's not right. So that's where the problem is. Allow me, Mr President. Give me some time, please. A first step might be the allocation of resources in island regions not only on the basis of GDP but also on the basis of competitiveness. Competitiveness also involves reduced rates of VAT. We all know that. Mr Brutsi and Mr Brutsi have been systematically involved in this. And I asked the Independent Independent Income Authority to give us evidence. And I called on the Independent Income Authority, as chairman of the Committee of Regions, with Mr. Srmarillene coming to give us the information. Let's see if, eventually, the abolition has favoured island economies. It is doubtful whether there was a financial benefit from this move. I personally think it didn't exist. How much did public revenue increase on these islands? The figures - based on another variable - after the abolition of reduced VAT rates in these regions have increased or decreased? Is the income declared a cumulative effect on the public either positive or negative? So we have to answer our letter and position to see and make the debate from there on. At last, this issue has to be raised at some point and we have to look at the evidence there are. How good did it work or how bad did it hurt? Let's all start together with no intention of bringing things back where we should. I would also suggest that the national strategy for island regions and the demographic problem, Minister, should be incorporated. We all know what unemployment means to island economies or to the issues of economic hardship. Demographic ageing and declining populations in small islands are an existing problem and part of the national strategy for islands, for islands. It must be the demarcation of the islands facing this problem. Let's see it kind of separately. As well as the implementation of specific policies and actions to address the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u38	You'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr Minister, Mr Secretary-General, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are points of convergence of understanding. They're gonna need synergies. And we should also recognise that it is not only Placiotakis and Katsafandos who can solve the problem because they are co-legislative and other ministries. We need to make public opinion on the issues we have just mentioned and other ministries. We must all become points of unity and discussion. I only close with one report, Minister. We have witnessed islanders in recent times of Turkey's incomprehensible aggressive policy on its fisheries policy on the smaller islands in the eastern Aegean. It has to stop. I understand the voices that at this time are saying that there must be a peace and that the sea of the Aegean must become the sea of peace and understanding. It is, however, unacceptable that Turkish fishing should almost enter the coastal zone of the islands, in very shallow waters that neither European nor national legislation permits. Minister, I know your sensations and yours and Mr. Katsafandou and Mr. Admiral. I would like the port to be strengthened on your own initiative on these islands. I would like to end by congratulating you on the initiative you have taken to bring this bill. It is in the right direction and I call on colleagues to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u40	The next speaker is Mr Synatakis Emmanuel of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Faced with the need for islanders and the people as a whole for cheap modern coastal transport, three hundred sixty-five days a year, with crews with permanent fixed work, full work and insurance rights and organic compositions that will fully meet the needs of ships and the safety of human life at sea, the Government responds with additional provocative privileges in armament capital. The cherries in the cake are the transport equivalent as long as these new privileges to the shipowners are accepted by the people of the islands. But what's the metaphor? We call it clear. It is another form of indirect subsidy for shipowners. Like the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, who tried to deceive islanders with the so-called transport equivalent, so today the New Democracy and all of them together in the House - mayors of districts - are attempting with impressions that they care about simplifying the financing procedures, the concreteness of the beneficiaries, the extension of the measure to Crete. In reality, however, they work on the agony and daily problems faced by islanders. In fact, New Democracy and SYRIZA are engaged in a controversy of shadow as to who was or is a better manager in the implementation of the measure. In fact, however, it is who serves better and more efficient masterpieces the interests of logistics and shipping agents. All of them are systematically avoiding and the central and local regional authorities are putting themselves to the main question: who really benefits from the so-called transport equivalent and what is the real way out for the poor populace? The criterion for setting the amount of transport costs paid in accordance with Law 4551 adopted in July 2018 is the cost of the TIPS tickets of mainland Greece. The amount to be reimbursed by the State will be the difference or compensation of the island costs resulting from the comparison of the ship’s ticket with the cost of the CBS ticket at the corresponding distance of the mainland. That's as good as it is. But what do governments keep diligent? Firstly, that shipping companies can at any time increase the price of tickets for freight fares above the rate of refund, the frequency and duration of passenger services on the coastline network. That's the reality. That's a real target. Two. This measure concerns only the ticket for the financial position of passengers. Sensitive teams, if they need to travel to a cabin, should normally pay the ticket. There is also no return to the family's means of transport. Thirdly, that it excludes those islanders who have declared to the tax that their permanent residence is in the mainland, but by the nature of their work they use sea transport with increased density. Fourthly, for those who declare permanent residence on the islands, the relevant income criteria are required, since applicants should submit, among other things, supporting and tax declarations. Fifthly, that a joint ministerial decision is adopted by the Ministers responsible for Economy, Development and Shipping who will determine the amount paid for the measure each year, how many and how many tickets are entitled to the time and other key elements of the programme. Many of these so far remain indiscriminate. Because there is a lot of talk about the extension of the transport equivalent and of passengers travelling from and to Crete, and regional mayors, mayors, institutions, local actors, to expand the measure, in fact the transport equivalent is a no-fly air, even when other anti-grass laws hit their jobs and needs and empty people's pockets, while the cost of transport and transport is increased for popular mattresses and land and sea due to increases in tickets and the reduction of popular income. The transport equivalent is actually a hole in the water for the beneficiary. We must remember - firstly - that from 1-1-2019 on SYRIZA the reduced VAT rates imposed after many matches on islands have been completely abolished as a minimum compensatory measure at increased transport and living costs. Secondly, that in the relevant SYRIZA law on the transport equivalent in 2018, an amendment was passed by everyone other than the JRC, which provides that the millions of euros paid by the shipowners each year for the arid lines are not transferred, seized, subject to any kind of retention and are not offset by any debts of these companies to the public or insurance funds. While all this happens, shipowners who on average earn more than EUR 10 billion annually pay a tax only of EUR 15 million, that is, less than EUR 10 per day for each ship. Let the worker, the poor farmer, the small and medium-sized, the self-employed professional and trader consider how much he is forced to pay for taxes, carpets and insurance contributions every year, or what new appreciations of electricity, fuel, and the kinds of first need are reserved for him. Is it ever possible for all those who put their hand in order for the people to kneel down from the accuracy, the taxes and the carpets to seek their burden-free? The ferry tickets are really "fire" to move a family from and to the islands either because of locality, either for vacation or for work, and this cannot be veiled by any transport equivalent. I'll get you an example. A four-member family to travel by Piraeus ferry - Heraklion - Piraeus, with return, i.e. also with an IX and an economic position of airway type, wants at least four hundred euros. If you add food, then we reach a minimum wage. The fact is that small and medium-sized farmers on the island of Crete bear a very large cost from transporting fresh agricultural products to the markets of the rest of Greece and abroad. But who determines the transport costs? Aren't the shipping companies? It's a very expensive cost, because they're just seeking maximum profit. Some businesses, large exporters, fresh agricultural products, have been included. However, it is not a question for us to include a part of a big business or to remove any bureaucratic procedures. We are also interested in the farmer, the small producer, who is what? Where's the transport equivalent going? He's going to the shipping companies. They can at any time increase the transport costs of goods over the amount of the refund, moving the difference to the producer itself. So who's benefiting? The poor farmer or the companies? This transport cost is therefore to be added to the other problems faced by farmers, such as the very low producer prices, the high production costs, the destruction of plant and animal capital from floods that have not yet been compensated and will never be compensated, the tax burden, the carpet. Therefore, behind the curtain of the so-called transport equivalent, another brave grant to shipowners is being promoted. Those who are today being cut off for the relief of the islands and the claim of the transport equivalent for Crete and for the rest of Greece, as provocative and false, should answer why they were whistling indifferently when the JRC Parliamentary Group in November 2019 tabled an amendment rejected by the Government for the reintroduction of reduced VAT for all islands. And recently, in June 2021, when the New Democracy Government refused the amendment tabled by the JRC for its full reintroduction. We call on the workers, the self-employed, the poor-medium-sized farms of the islands, the Aegean Sea, Crete to respond to anti-grassroots policy and the imprisonment of the government for this transportable fake equivalent by strengthening the fight and drastically reducing the VAT rate for all the islands that have been conquered for more than thirty years, the free movement of unemployed, the disabled, the satisfactory sectoral labour contract for seafarers, the launching of modern ships, the maritime connection of three hundred five days a year, to return the reduced VAT rate for all the islands that have been conquered for more than thirty years, the abolition of the ENPI and all the characters, a ban on seizures. For farmers, one single request against this fake equivalent, to claim a direct state subsidy from the small and medium-sized enterprises themselves to cover the cost of shipping transporting their products, not to take it away from the shipowners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u42	We will now give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta. Then Mr. Kavadas will be followed and we close the list of speakers with a natural presence with Mr. Kalamatiano. Parliamentary representatives may request the floor whenever they want. After Mr Kalamatiano, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, will speak. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Before I enter, Mr. Psikotakis, in the bill, because the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement would fight, the multitude Mr. Scandalidis, because they are indicted or accused of cooperating with the New Democracy or with SYRIZA, I will submit it in the Minutes. I've said many times to see what we're tabling in the Minutes. When a party of the two-and-a-half-five bills brought by the New Democracy has voted in favour of thirty-five, as the Change Movement does, at a rate of 67% of 'yes', then don't ask why they are called. For example, the Greek Solution has a figure of 27% in 'yes'. SYRIZA 46%. Half of the New Democracy has been voted for by SYRIZA. Otherwise it's Opposition. So, there's the Change Movement, don't ask yourself why they're telling you that you're ready to work with New Democracy. You have voted in favour of 67% of the bills. We've worked a nice excel to see it. It's because you two are separated. No one is to blame. Mr Plakkatakis, before I enter the bill, I want to make something clear, representing my party to this day as a Parliamentary representative, to save what can come from the media that you control, the trolls and anything else. We are referring to Article 18. What does Article 18 say? It's the equivalent. Who are the beneficiaries, then, to have cheap tickets, free benefits, etc.Huh? Beneficiaries of ANNOO are households whose members are Greek citizens or foreigners. So we're talking about these illegal immigrants, Mr. Placiotakis, who've been installed on the islands, you've given them temporary permissions to make the green statistics, to reduce the numbers of illegal and licensed, etc. And these people you put with the Greek islanders, the housewives, our locusts, you equate them and you give them these bonuses. Question: How can the Greek Solution vote? We condemn it, we make it on the surface that people hear it and that there is an answer to any questions, because you did not vote in favour of Article 18. What worship, what lusciousness is it with foreigners? What's that thing? What do you put them in there? Especially in our islands that are full of them and destroyed, their population has been devastated! Is it impossible to put them here? We weren't really in the mood today to bail because you have one of the most important portfolios, Mr. Placiotakis. For us, for the Greek Solution tourism, the primary sector and shipping are the main pillars for our country. Your portfolio is too heavy and important. And we would like - it is not personal to comment on you - that this ministry is more active, more substantial, with innovative interventions so that this giant, called Greek shipping, can once again be set up. Because this is a giant, when the Greek-owned merchant fleet is the world's largest and most important factor in the global supply chain. The contribution of shipping to GDP is more than 7%, with some fifteen thousand jobs. The revenue it records is 25% of Greece's shipping, but could be potentially up to all 60 billion. As we are not a party dedicated, we are a party with many proposals and because you are close to the government, I hope you, Mr Minister, have realised that many times we have been adopted and acted on. We are a party, therefore, of proposals. This role of ours here, which is why we represent every vote of Greek citizens and Greek women who have sent us to work for the good of our country. Today, we are going to put forward proposals for an opportunity for the debate we have on shipping and the bill you bring, we are going to make some specific proposals. The commercial fleet of Greece - perhaps some do not know - is the largest and most productive in the world, number one after the 1970s, followed by the Japanese and Chinese. But nowadays, in addition to the above references, the shipping complex is trying and you know it well. It is being tested by the internal economic crisis - and I am talking about the last decade if you want not only in our day - the hostile - because it is hostile - to politics of all Greek governments from post-Culture and then towards maritime enterprises, the control of capital, Mr Placiotakis, who have reduced net shipping revenues from 6.8 billion in 2014 to 3.3 billion in 2017. Numbers, graphs we'll file everything in the Minutes today. However, according to the study by Ernst & Young Greece could - because this country could do miracles in the primary sector and in tourism and shipping - have significant economic benefits if shipping companies were established, regardless of the flag on which ships would be registered. These benefits were calculated according to the Ernst & Young survey of 25.9 billion a year and would create five hundred thousand new jobs. Minister, these are the four hundred fifty pages with our proposals from the Greek Solution Programme. We have printed and brought you our proposals on shipping and we will submit them to the Minutes. We think this is a constructive dialogue and you can get some serious ideas from here. I'll testify later. Therefore, the main pillars of Greek shipping are: shipping, shipping, maritime capacity, equipment, cruise ships, ports, ship repair activities, maritime training, pleasure boats and paramilitary activities. Let's go to the suggestions now. We consider it essential to establish a maritime entrepreneurship bank which is competitive with the offshore banking activities that already exist. The absence, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, of such a bank for our country, of a maritime entrepreneurship bank is a timeless problem in the modern history of the Greek state, so that our country is dependent on the great powers of the international banking system. This will bring together a huge part of the capital reserves of 20% of the Earth's fleet, defined by Greek shipping interests. I will not tell you all the suggestions, for example some. Secondly, creation - I think you will go ahead with this, if you will - of the e-registration register, that is, an electronic register, that the bureaucratic procedures should be removed, that ships should be simplified in the Greek register. Thirdly, a change in the taxation of ships while introducing strong incentives that will not affect shipping companies. This measure is necessary because shipowners - as you will all know, both Greek and Greek - are paying tax not on the basis of the profits of the ship, but on the basis of the capacity of a ship resulting at a rate. Another proposal: intensified efforts by the State and the social partners to attract young people to the naval profession. The main incentive will be the condition of the full professional service of a seafarer for five years. Another proposal: Upgrading and updating of higher education courses in commercial seafarers. Adopt tax incentives to raise the Greek flag on pleasure boats. Another measure: Creating a parallel register for ships flying Greek flag. What are we doing with this measure? There are expected to be considerable economic benefits, as has been the case for many years in several countries. Norway, the Netherlands, Italy. Let's do it too! Reduction of prices and tickets for the permanent inhabitants of the islands and incentives for tourism in Greek islands. In addition, to enhance the revenues of small and micro-enterprises as well as incentives for the residence of indigenous inhabitants on the islands. Zero cost ticket to Piraeus or Thessaloniki twice a month. It has too many proposals. Cuts, tax discount coupons produced by islands’ cash registers on product markets of more than EUR 30. A series of clever proposals, Minister, that can stimulate. Again, please take your time as a party and request that you read our proposals briefly for shipping. We believe that shipping, if combined with development in the primary sector and tourism, will be able to stand on its feet again. And one last thing, Mr. Placiotakis, although it's not up to your Ministry. Can we still not have fishing zones? We've asked dozens of questions. And the ones in the Minutes. One sends the ball to the other. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Transport says - and this is the joke - that the European Commission of the national seas is the end date of March 31, 2021. We've been yelling since last year! It's over in March! It's over in March! We have not defined fishing zones and we have daily systematic claims by Turkey to the Aegean Sea and are trying to create a fait accompli if you want the vessels that illegally enter our waters and create this whole situation. Is it possible that Greece does not have fishing zones? These are five, six key areas that your ministry needs to see to produce work. Otherwise the rest will be procedural. You'll bring bills, they'll pass, and life will go on. That's not how it works. Mr President, you will allow me to close as a parliamentary representative to make a little reference to some creepy things I have seen today. Let's get something straight for a pluralist time. We're not against the vaccine, we're not infectious. We are against compulsoryity, we are in favour of freedom of choice for everyone, but we are against these fascist measures taken by the government. The PFIZER cannot come out and we can now read that they are ready to inoculate babies for six months! Six months, doctor! Six months of babies to inoculate them! "Yes" you say, unbelievable! Six-month-old babies, man! Or reading at the same time, also from a site very reliable, are yours, the toweled, "MODERNA" and "PFIZER": protection against the coroner is weakening with time. I see it every five to six months. There's no more...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u44	What does this have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u45	I repeat, my dear Admiral, that I will close from both minutes, I will dedicate them as a parliamentary representative. You are experienced, you should have learned the process that I can make a reference to topical issues. You're experienced now, don't do that. You're no child, you're an experienced man. And you don't disorientate me - I'm not one of them - say what you want. Call whatever you want. So every five to six months you'll get a bite! Babies, six months! With complaints to come daily that the hospitals are running down, that he's made so many doctors off duty. What is this thing, really? You continue with these anti-democratic instruments. And, you know, it's also a joke what we saw the other day at the start of schools, with the self-tests process, which in some cases was called by the police to get students inside! The students entered a criminal proceedings. It's unbelievable! Here's a little something. It is not going to work out what you do, how you do it. You need to change your way of life. He's got the number where he's sitting. The number of people vaccinated has been vaccinated. You see, someone will hardly get vaccinated any more. We have never told anyone not to be vaccinated or vaccinated. We've given the freedom to decide, his choice for his life, to decide whether to make the vaccine or not. But with what you're doing and all the investigations... Let me tell you something else. In other words, those who are inconsistent - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - must carry out tests. That's very right. We're together and agree that everyone needs to run tests either PCR or rapid, so everyone knows if they're okay. So the invasives are safe. Right? You know. You're clean, you're on your way. You have COVID, you live in your house. Aren't they far from this test procedure more dangerous? Why are they running, they've been relieved of the audit procedure, whether or not they've been...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u46	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u47	Of course, doctor, that's the way it is. I'm sorry, can you get stuck? Example - don't tell me about you - say I'm vaccinated. I do not do, I am relieved of the procedure to make a PCR once a week. Can I be stuck before? I can. So I can turn to the right and the left to transmit it? Doesn't he transmit? You're a doctor, and when you go upstairs and say that I'm a doctor, and I say that vaccinated don't transmit the virus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u48	Come on, don't have a dialogue, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u49	Because other things the doctors say. Find them, guys. Find them why you've lost them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u50	We continue with Mr. Kavada Athanasios from New Democracy. Then there is Mr. Kalamatianos from SYRIZA, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr. Brutsis. Come on, Mr. Kavvada.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition continues to be confusing and nervous. He is trying to devaluate the government's successes, success in managing the crisis, in supporting the economy during the pandemic, in getting back to normality. But populism is no longer a product that sells. Their pitiful forecasts, which provided for restrictive measures and memoranda, were disproved and disproved in practice. Government forecasts of very high growth, following the pandemic recession, are confirmed. In fact, international houses such as MODY'S raise the forecast for growth rates at 8.2 this year. At the same time, they confirm that the growth rate of the Greek economy and for the third quarter of 2021 will be two-digit. These performances have obviously contributed to the creation of a financial area enabling the Prime Minister to announce a comprehensive package of economic and social support measures. The most important thing? These measures also include tax reductions. For two years, this government has proved in practice, not in the words that there is another policy of overtaxation implemented by the previous government with the imposition of twenty-nine new taxes. For two years the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has consistently followed a policy of reducing taxes and there will be continuity. Because tax reductions lead to growth, to the fastest possible return to normality. That's our difference with SYRIZA. SYRIZA was overtaxed, and then did with the surplus of benefits policy. We aim to develop and through the benefits of growth and reduce taxes and we have the potential to strengthen Greek households and businesses. For two years the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has made major institutional contributions, which is confirmed by the bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. It is an innovation and a step forward that, for the first time, the legislation of a ministry is codified to have a full picture of the citizen. The codification of the legislation relates to areas such as the institutional framework for the staff of the Port Body and the Greek Coast Guard, maritime work and maritime education, maritime transport and passenger rights, safety rules in maritime transport, the protection of the marine environment, the use and organisation of ports, and especially for island policy. For the first time, the country forms an integrated framework for island policy and has the financial tools to exercise it. I am referring to the NEARTHOS programme, the funding programme for island entrepreneurship, the Blue Economy Fund. A programme that ensures funding for the reinforcement of port infrastructure and facilities, which also needs the islands of my prefecture, Mr. Minister, Lefkada, Meganisi, Kalasmos and Kastos, and which, with your help, we hope to make maximum use of. This is the first time that the Ministry of Shipping has acquired a sectoral financial programme that allows for the conduct of an island policy. In fact, the first proposals for the construction and improvement of port facilities and infrastructures on islands, projects to be financed by the NSRP have already been tabled and this is the first time that this has been done for such projects in the island regions of the country. As has also been the first time in a financial programme, the strengthening of the coastline and the financing of small atrocities. I would remind you that the funds available for the feral lines have increased from EUR 90 million to EUR 130 million in 2020, and in 2021 there is a new increase to EUR 138 million in 2021. The NEARTHOS programme is only a part of the national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area presented by the Government of New Democracy and is practically acknowledging the importance of the island area. A national strategy that strengthens island entrepreneurship, local economies, the development of island regions, which concerns 15% of the inhabitants and 25% of the country's GDP produced. This is a policy which concerns the purely island regions of the country, which also explicitly includes Lefkada and Meganisi. I am very pleased and proud that the Government of the New Democracy has accepted and formally adopted the island status of my island. For years we have tried to integrate Lefkada into the responsibilities of the Secretariat-General for Island Policy in order to benefit from the financial programmes. For years the previous government has ignored us and denied us self-evident. The government and the Minister personally, Mr Yiannis Plakkatakis, listened, accepted the island status of Lefkada in January 2021 and I would like once again to thank you personally and publicly, Minister. A positive sign is also the provision of the draft law that upgrades the Island Policy Council. It will now be under the supervision of the Prime Minister himself and will operate within the framework of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, a Council that combines and proposes integrated policies for islands. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's legislative activity and institutional interventions are marked by densities, they have a specific target, they are the product of a consultation, a plan. Like the choices made by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the economy, which now produce measurable results that are translated into measures supporting society, lowering taxes and strengthening the development process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kavada for the consistency in time. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I begin by saying that how important and effective the Prime Minister's announcements were in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki is seen by the fact that a new package of benefits already leaks. It was revealed that the vast majority of the measures are either a repetition or an extension of existing measures. No substantial intervention to limit increases in food prices, first-time items, current and fuels. No measure of substantial relief for workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, farmers, unemployed and pensioners. Today we have seen that ECA and the Ministry of Labour are basically confessing to the dissolution of public social security. They admit that only 8% of old pensioners can recalculate and directly give the retroactives they are entitled to. The rest will wait for them to be taken when and if they can recalculate the sums they have to give them. Within two years they have succeeded in dismantling the EFKA, no matter what trouble, anxiety, the concern of the insured, the pensioners and those who have waited for so long to get their pensions. Happy birthday! And the question is: we have stopped what we had started. Why are they stopping? And programs and predictions of their own government. Mr. Brutsis, the previous Minister, is here. They've stopped what he had run for. Why are they doing it? One answer is that they are trying to slander, degrade public social security so much that the "savers" individuals and take over the project. Some such things have been launched by the calculation of pensions, etc., and the privatisation of subsidiary insurance. They want to complete the project. At the same time, they are trying to make fun of the new generation, trying to buy out our young people with data and 100 euros a month for a semester. They were lured with 150 euros to get vaccinated. They think, however, that our young people and young people will forget the reality that the government is shaping for them. They think they will forget the working conditions that they have voted on, think they will forget the unpaid and cheap overtime, the waste hours even for part-time, the facilitation of redundancies, the reduction of their earnings. They think they will forget the exclusion of thousands of pupils with the minimum import base, so that they do not end up, as the Prime Minister said, in public universities. They think they'll forget their targeting of the so-called spread of the virus. They think they will forget the hunt from the repression forces, when daily citizens see organised crime as having escaped, that there are death contracts, murders, shooting, robberies, which unfortunately make citizens' insecurity worse. No, ladies and gentlemen. They won't forget all that. They will give their answers with dynamism and determination. I now come to the issues of the Ministry of Shipping. Here too, delays and deterioration. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs is inappropriate. Significant works and policies that SYRIZA had implemented or launched either froze or fall into indifference. Of course, there was no indifference to the deterioration of maritime rights. For example, there has been special care to reduce fines for violating working hours. And for the coastline, the government showed frustration and indifference. The government's pandemic and management of shipping caused numerous and serious problems in the industry. Entities note that the reduction of turnover is too great. Many of the routes that in previous years were considered profitable this year were either not executed or limited. As a result, many of our islands, such as Ikaria, Limnos, Cyclades, remote remote islands, such as Symi, are facing many problems. Insularity has completely disappeared from both the government's and the ministry's agenda. In fact, your work is essentially the implementation of SYRIZA's projects and initiatives, such as floating ambulances, thermal cameras in the Port House, the reception of vehicles and others. You've made the transport equivalent down. You didn't vote for it when we brought it. You didn't believe it. But transport equivalent is an important reserve for our islands. We have recognised the need to move the islands and to strengthen the competitiveness of local businesses. The current government and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs have followed a strategy for depreciating the measure. Continuous delays in the return of money have led to the weakening of the transport equivalent and the anger of the islanders. The undermining of the measure has, however, been denied in practice. Today transport equivalent is perhaps the most important tool for alleviating our islands and island businesses in the difficult conditions we are experiencing. Regarding codification, obviously also the codification of legislation in the sense of concentration, liquidation and classification of the relevant provisions is certainly desirable. It is an essential and necessary process in view of the problem of pluralism and maliciousness. We had chosen this to become central by a special codification committee. You chose to do this even now after two years. It seems that the final state is not working well in this area too. And you started at the easiest, because the provisions were practically ready. In conclusion, I would like to stress that our country's insularity and sea character have contributed in particular to the shipping of the Greeks, the development of shipping and maritime technology. There it is based on the fact that our country is one of the leading powers in the world. We aim at the equal development of all sectors associated with the long tradition of our country to activities around the sea. We want policies that strengthen the footprint of shipping in society and the economy. We want the upgrading and safeguarding of shipping and public maritime education. We want to highlight and support the comparative advantages of Greek ship repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding in Stepma, Mr Kalamatiano, and I cannot avoid responding to two - three issues which he raised from this step and which concern the government's general policy, questioning what was announced by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, a week ago by Thessaloniki. I wonder: do we not read the same texts? Don't we have the same show? Don't we hear the same things? Because I think that we are intelligent people too, especially at this level, we understand much more simply and much more quickly the facts and statements. I do not think anyone can doubt that they are in favour of households, businesses, natural persons, tax cuts and reductions in insurance contributions, Mr Kalamatane. These are announcements made a week ago. You know - and that goes through all the parties - that usually what they say is doing. So, the reduction of insurance contributions, the reduction of taxes, the unpaid advance - which has stopped and will be further reduced - which companies have a duty to return to their parental benefits, the reduction of company taxes, the aid to PPC's tariff for households and natural persons, reach the citizen! It is what you have just questioned. Therefore, the account and criticism of this matter seems to me to be broken down only once it has been said. Let me make another comment which, as former Minister of Labour, I owe her. I am one of those who always recognizes what is built in the past and has a positive sign. From this step as Minister, I will now repeat, efforts that have been made in the past. Because you referred to the insurance system, I'll repeat something for once. The country's insurance system was one of its main causes of derailment. It has operated with customer characteristics for too many years and this has led to many mistakes. It was fragmented. Think we had a hundred and sixty funds. But you must not question the courageous efforts that have been made. Your lineup was small and it was across the street then. I remember PASOK at the time, he had a revolutionary bikini. With Fani Pallie - Stone the sixty funds we made thirteen. We, this party. I succeeded the Ministry of Labour. There's been a huge effort. The "ERGANI", built "ATLAS", mapped the insurance system for the first time. We have now begun to put insurance, in line with the whole of Europe, into a question of rationalisation and budgetary discipline. You're here - I'm leaving the negatives - and you've reduced the thirteen funds to three. And then, as a new Minister of Labour, I maintained the name of the EVA I inherited for the sake of recognition of the effort you have made. This, Mr Santorinier, means politeness in politics, you must recognise - I will also say for you later on about the equivalent of transport - what has been built in the past and has a positive sign. And today Greece has the e - EFKA. So I will repeat that e-ECA is the most modern for public administration there is. It is wrong at the moment when there is criticism of e-ECA and employees. EFCA officials are making great efforts, and at the same time this e-ECA, which is today a modern organisation, I have said that it will be the standard organisation at the end of 2022. Think of what a project e-EVA is. He combined all the funds of the country, at different speeds, with different employees, so different knowledge, with different references and now this e-ECA is beginning to be consolidated at all levels. Well, it is not by pressing an automatic process of an automatic initiative or legislative initiative. It takes a year to balance. My assessment is by the end of 2022, e-ECA will be an example throughout the public administration. And to close the chapter, because there is always criticism there on the part of SYRIZA on social policy issues, Mr Kalamatiano 14.2% is unemployment today. It is an achievement that came through efforts of total budgetary discipline in the country, a change in the productive model. The "ERGANI" was designed, which has now made electronic monitoring of all enterprises. It was the fine of 10,500, which is now an institution. No one dares to have an undeclared worker - allegedly working, yes, undeclared worker - so that now creates a positive sign in employment. It's all ten percentage reductions in insurance contributions that you've never voted on. Six units have been reduced in Antonis Samaras in respect of insurance contributions, non-wage costs - you and as a scientist and as a man who is studying things, I know that intimately you are in favour of reducing insurance contributions - and 3.9 points with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Ten units of reduction of non-wage costs that are income to businesses and income to employees' pockets. It's over. Unemployment is at 14.2%. We are not satisfied with the level of unemployment, but we are working with tools, with the OAED, with new policies, such as the one hundred thousand jobs and the financing of insurance contributions and many OAED programmes - which existed before the OAED and are still being evaluated and evaluated - to reduce unemployment and to reduce it further in the future. I'm going into the bill. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill entitled 'Following a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area', etc. I have to tell you that with the experience I have and the experience that we all have in this Chamber, we know that our country's legislative environment is a scattered, fragmented environment, where legislation is so complex and so much in matter, that, if anyone collected this whole material of legislation from all ministries, I think it would take dozens of rooms to fill this material in document level, at paper level. The government has started an effort to codify all the legislation and today, Mr Plakkatakis and Mr Katsafados, I have to say congratulations. You are the first Ministry to which, in the project and in this great challenge, you come to record the first codification, something very important and very positive. Here I really wonder about a codification of legislation, why aren't you together? KINAL, I think, has taken a positive stand and I think it is self-evident. But does SYRIZA's side, even in a codification of legislation disagree, in what goes without saying, that has nothing political in it? Is there no question of political difference here? It's codification of existing legislation. But, Minister and Minister, allow me to take this opportunity today from this step forward - it is the first time that I have had you in the government headquarters - with the experience I have carried from my law, the Cyclades Law, I have to publicly ask you to congratulate the Ministry of Shipping, all the officials and especially the Port House. This year for the first time as compared with 2019 in the Prefecture of Cyclades, in the islands of Mykonos, Santorini, Ios, Milos, Naxos, Paros and Tinos, was the largest, even since 2019, in terms of arrival of passenger ships. And within these ships there was a large number of cars and worlds that were transported. Given the limited capacity of our ports - another chapter to discuss - the Port House did excellently. He organised all these procedures and deserved congratulations, Minister and Minister, and to you who are leading the Port House and the Chief of the Port Body and to the entire Port Body of the Cyclades. I believe that something similar has been done in other parts of the country. Because somewhere these people must hear the congratulations and the good news, which is the moral reward. The second point I have to make is the question of transport equivalent. I said, Mr Santorinier, just before that in my whole political career my political formation was never a petty and limited perception to recognise the positive ones. Indeed, the transport equivalent has your signature, and I personally recognise that, and the Minister and we all know that. This is how politics has to work, with recognition. Because that gives the courage to all and to young people who want to get into politics to feel that, my child, it won't come next to him to say it was all black. It's not black. Because there was a collective policy for island Greece over time that supported the islands. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The transport equivalent had your signature, it was incomplete. And that's how it's in politics. Yannis Pakisotakis came along, expanded the transport equivalent, organized it more, as I am sure there will still be improvements in his operation and evolution. That's the reality. And today this is codified. Is the transport equivalent positive? Of course it's positive. It's a request, you said, forty years, as a political demand for the world of our islands. However, on the other hand, because I have heard the petty political criticism from some of SYRIZA's colleagues, do not overlook the fact that the VAT on the islands has been abolished, a very important economic instrument for both natural persons and businesses. And it was abolished in a way that does not honor Parliament, because there were promises here that the VAT on the islands of the Aegean will never be bothered. It was not just economic reasons. They were national reasons for keeping the VAT on the islands of the Aegean. But it was abolished, Mr. Syriza. That's the reality. Now we are going to some extra topics where I have the opportunity to present a few more thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, as an islander, Cyclades, Naxiotis and Amorgianos, I have representations from the Cyclades especially - because everyone has its own reference area - all over the last few years, from a small child I live on these beautiful islands. I have to tell you that things are not the same. Things have changed, Mr. Gika. I imagine the same is happening in Corfu, from which you come. It is a completely different standard of living on the islands of the Cyclades - I am confined to my own county - thirty, forty years ago and today. Today the standard of living has risen too much. We must not, in order to accurately evaluate things, hide behind our finger. In the Aegean islands, in the islands of the Cyclades, in my constituency, the standard of living has risen too much because of tourism and now new problems arise for me. Mr Plakkatakis, Mr Katsafados, ladies and gentlemen, I must strike the risk bell against the forthcoming huge investment torque, which must be reasoned, rationalised, must respect the environment. Because I fear very much that, if the situation, as I have experienced for the last two, three, four years, continues to develop in terms of arbitrary, land trespassing, cementing everything, my children will not live what I have experienced. This beautiful Cycladic landscape, the unique architectural landscape, which makes us all proud and we want to enjoy it is in danger. The government needs to take measures concerning the environment and its protection. And because I listen constantly to infrastructure, we have to think that we need to put two words into our vocabulary speaking about the islands now: carrying capacity, an island up to where it can raise infrastructure for roads, for ports. It is a finite context combined with the geographical potential. I think, Mr. Symblene, you agree. I see you and you agree to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u56	To Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Georgiadis, say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u57	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u58	So we need to reassess the view through which the islands as a whole are seen. We must protect them, protect this unique landscape and at the same time do everything we can to facilitate the lives of citizens. It would be miserable to say that the state over time did not look at island Greece and especially the Aegean, because there is the big issue and the heart that beats for national reasons. And education offers time-consuming and health in the context of the possibilities, which always exist room for improvement. However, there are no longer any islands that can be a student and do not go, with the care of the Minister of Education, a teacher or a teacher. Everywhere there is a health centre, which improves comparatively. On Constantine Karamanlis, Antonis Samaras, Papandreou had become improvements. They're done in Tsipras. And now with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, health centers in the Aegean islands and hospitals have been further improved. You referred to the Santorini Hospital. I will tell you, Mr Symblene, that, indeed, the health centre, the existing one, was transferred to a building built by the former Government of New Democracy on Dimitris Avramopoulos. So we should be honest, all of us trying to tell the truth. We need it from the political system. There was a health center in Santorini, a building built to become hospitals, moved the health center... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] ...and it became the hospital, where the criticism of Mr. Mitsotakis' government would be abolished. And not only did it not abolish it, but it improved it in terms of both infrastructure and doctors, numerically, and nursing staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Brutsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. I just want to add that for the Santorini Hospital my own proposal, since we are talking about island Greece, is to move to the ESS and get out of this same AEMY hybrid. I shall close, Mr President, with happy things. I have to read about the Cyclades world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u61	It's good to be, but you've been over your time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u62	But everyone's talking a lot more. Wait a minute. The Minister, Mr. Plackotakis, the Ministry of Shipping...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u63	You've spoken for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u64	I'm taking dentistry too. Upgrade port infrastructure of Aegialis 1.200.000 euros, Katapola Amorgos 2.100,000, port, peripheral port of Katapoles 2.000, Ios, port facilities of 5.300.000, new port of dangerous loads of Almyros on the island of Ios 6.000, extension of port of Sikinos 1,300000, extension of cybery to Anafi 850,000, extension of port of Folegandros 1,200,000, Paros, construction of new waiting rooms and configuration of space in the main port of Paros, and provision and installation of tyre impactors for the service of ships, coastline 2.021,000. To add to these, Mr President - and I thank you for the tolerance - that it is necessary, Mr Ministers, to see the new port of Santorini, which must be a national priority. I am not allowed to analyse this more quickly. All sides know that. And the second, the port of Naxos either improve or become a second port in Naxos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u65	Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will not answer the question of the bill now. I'm going to answer my position on the whole. However, I shall refer to two points, Mr Brutsi. First of all, I would like to thank you for your good words and for what you have said. Political magnanimity is very important. It's good to have it all. On two points, however, I think we do not really read the same things and probably do not read them within the government. Because when Mr. Mitsotakis was bound by the PPC's step to cover 80% of the increase in energy costs in households and businesses, Mr. Skrekas did not admit this in the interview. And, indeed, what you say you give, nine euros a month, will not go to business. Enterprises are outside of this subsidy. And we're talking about ovens. The ovens that will produce the bread, how will they absorb this energy cost? When the bills even in households come increased by 100 euros today, nine euros per month to what will facilitate them? Tell us honestly: Selling beads to the natives, do you think the prick of the image of the Prime Minister himself and your government will stop? I shall mention a second point. I won't answer the rest. You referred to unemployment. I wish unemployment was 14.2% and I wish it would go less. I won't tell how much we've received her, 27%. You know that, too. But the point is that you are being denied by the OAED himself. OAED himself announced three hundred thousand additional unemployed, which means 7% more. At last, understand this government. We know that now you've lost the ball, but at least try to reach agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u68	But just for a minute, just to finish, because if we keep it up, we're gonna be late...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u69	No, Mr President, for a minute. Besides, the debate is over and constructive and it's being held...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u70	I don't know if it's constructive, but anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Santorinier, two answers. Firstly, with regard to the power and intervention of the government in power, a courageous package was announced by the Prime Minister for both households and businesses. It's over! So I expect to see, in a few days from today, what Mr. Tsipras will say in Thessaloniki to fill the pockets of the Greeks with money, but to answer at the same time and from where he will find them, because this is the crucial issue. The second thing that has to do with the electricity: Do not forget, Mr Santorinier, that the greatest work in the history of the Cyclades Prefecture began in the government of New Democracy, to be honest with PASOK. It was for electricity the cable that passed - 300,000,000 euros - and which you stopped. You saw the value of it, you continued it, and today it is completed. It was the biggest project in the Cyclades Prefecture. And I close with unemployment. Look, I don't want to criticize you, because you don't know the subject. Here in our country there are certain institutions which are undeniable and are the only institutions that we take into account for unemployment. The only indicator that says the level of unemployment is ELSTAT. The OAED has other criteria. The OAED does not count as unemployment. Unemployment, Mr Santorinier, is only measured with ELSTAT. ELSTAT is the indicator that we can see of unemployment and indeed since 2013, which has been to an extent unemployment due to budgetary constraints and recession in the country, continues to decline. Reduced two units in 2012-2014, four units in your day and four other units now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u72	I would like to add to you, Mr Brutsi, because you probably do not remember it well, because the connection thing has started just before the conflict, but I remind you. And because you are all from islands I want to tell you - although I think you all know - that there are branches, such as focus, tourism, the primary sector, where there are no workers to go to work and that the political scene should see what initiatives it will take, so that I do not recall what PASOK has done and I am mistaken as President. Mr. Pappas has the floor and Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Gikas, has also asked Mr. Santorinios after Mr. Kourublis to take the floor. Let's put him on, let's go, after Mr. Gika. Here you go, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Santorinier, I will tell you that the natives you mentioned, the locusts and the islands, do not really forget that the reduced rates have been abolished by you, the SYRIZA - ANEL government in February 2015. Remember all this, because we must not forget when addressing the people who live on the islands that fight and call them native. It was a very bad comment you made. I would also like to say that I have just heard Mr Heta - not here in Parliament, but I am sorry about this - to talk about the forcedness and vaccinations that they are in favour, but are not in favour of compulsoryity and because they have all been doctors in here and addressed to a doctor colleague, I would like to say that it would be a good thing if Mr Hetas, like all of us, were concerned, because if a doctor was in the intensive and there was a bed and he should put an irreversible fight against the vaccines - but at the same time a new child from a car accident, what would the doctor of the hospital choose at that time? I would like to ask this because we must all be serious and send responsible and mature messages through the Greek Parliament. Minister, last January we passed the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. For the first time Greece, Europe's most island country, has acquired an integrated strategy for island policy and maritime development. The present draft law by the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy marks another great first. We are voting for the first code drawn up by the Central Committee on Codification, but it is also introduced into the House. Both were made by the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. Every sensible man will wonder: Did we have to get to 2021 to fight pluralism and evil in a two-century state? Unfortunately, the answer is yes and unfortunately there are still some who disagree. To understand the level of pluralism and maliciousness, it is sufficient to consider that in 2018 they were voted on by SYRIZA and ANEL seventy-seven laws, almost three thousand thirty-three articles and about ten thousand paragraphs. I don't think these numbers look small to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill passed at the beginning of the year included tools such as the 'NEARTHOS' programme, the Solar Entrepreneurship Financing Programme and the Maritime Economy Fund. At the same time, the new Programme of Institutional Empowerment Institutions of the Marine Economy is being set up, the National Register of Maritime Economy Bodies is being set up and the Board of Island Policy is being set up. Is that all necessary? The answer is clearly yes. But after we legislated, did we finish our work? The answer is clearly no. By coding we ensure that every island businessman and interested person understands the above and use these tools for development and can invest in his island or his place. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law also introduces something more, the simplification of the procedure for financing the transport equivalent. At the same time, for fuels and passengers, as for businesses, the beneficiaries have increased even further. I should like to stress here, because I have heard it here by SYRIZA interlocutors, that in our islands the price has reached 2 euros and above, that in 2017 and 2018 the price in Kassos, in the Leipsos, in Patmos, in Kastelorizo was 2.10, and today, in spite of the global price rise - and we know the enormous problems that exist - the price in our islands is not more than 2 euros. Simplification of the process of financing the transport equivalent, I can also present photos, my dear colleague, to show that the price we are talking about today in Patmos is 1.90. It's not more than 2. It was 2,10 in 2017 and in 2018 in your government and now there is global price appreciation and we all know it very well. It is a measure that is extremely important for island Greece and especially for the remote parts, but not handy and naughty. With this draft law, it becomes specific, it becomes clear, functional and universal. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you seem strange and I see that because you were used to legislating on the leg and superficially. I would like to point out at this point that for the first time the remote islands of the Dodecanese have acquired such sufficient and frequent ferry connection. Minister, thank you very much. The acronym Kastelorizo every day has a ship. This is the first time. For the first time a flag is flying from Rhodes to Kastelorizo, and indeed, Minister, because in the last few days I have been on the islands, and in Kastelorizo, and in Symi, and in Halki, and in Patmos, you should know that charming everyone told me "Yiannis, what your government is doing, we have a lot of noise in our ports". Because there is a lot of traffic, Minister, because every day we have ships on our island, because you have done a huge job, with huge results. And that is, of course, what we all realise is that it is the work of the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis and it is a work that has the signature of the Minister for Trade Shipping, Mr Placiotakis, and Mr Katsafandou's Minister. At this point I would point out that 51m euros were secured for the southern Aegean from resources of the NSRP, involving 12 port projects, and 28m euros for twenty-one insular lines. It's not just accounting, ladies and gentlemen. They are about to go to development projects for our islands, giving the islanders opportunities. And since some of SYRIZA's colleagues say that we are giving the shipowners money, I would say that this money gives multiple results to our islands and to the inhabitants of the smaller Aegean islands and the Dodecanese. Before closing my speech, I must restore the proposal that I have formulated from this Step and have submitted to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis by letter and memorandum. The transport equivalent is a measure of reversing the cost of life in the Arctic Dodecanese, but it needs decisive support. It's not enough on its own, we all know it. This is a cost that is high and influenced by the global trend of appreciations. The reintroduction of reduced VAT to the Dodecanese is a vital decision. The permanentization of the reduced VAT by 30% by means of an amendment by the Government in Kos, Leros and the islands of the northern Aegean was a move in the right direction. The injustice of the 1915, which has broadly signed the SYRIZA - ANEL and those of the ANELs who were transferred to SYRIZA by transfer, must be restored. The ultimate objective is to bring the reduced tax rates back to all the islands of the Dodecanese. This is a process that can be escalated, starting from Kalymnos and the small islands of the Dodecanese. Kalymnos, as you know, is geographically between Kos and Leros. The result is to face unfair competition, located between two islands where reduced VAT rates are already in place - Patmos, Agathonisi, Arcas, Marathi, Pserimos, Tenedos, Leipzig, Kasos and Karpathos are of enormous geopolitical value and their inhabitants are protecting the borders of our country and are having a difficult time in the winter period - and in the second phase, when budgetary, reduced tax rate is allowed to extend to the whole of the Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u74	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u75	Just give me one more minute, Mr President, please. The Kastelorizo complex is a special case, which requires even more bold solutions, but let's start with the simplest. The winter that comes will be for many very difficult, but for our locusts it is always difficult. If we want in future to say that we did something good in our country and something good in particular to our locusts and islands, we have to unite our voices here, until the reduced tax rates on our islands are restored. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Stakoras, said that if the growth rate for 2021 exceeds 5.9% - already MODY'S mentioned and estimated that it would reach 8.2% in 2021 - budgetary margins could be created for additional interventions. Such intervention can therefore be the reintroduction of the reduced VAT. A reform which, in conjunction with the transport equivalent, can be a wall of protection of remote areas against the wave of dishonesty and accuracy that comes. We must ensure that the inhabitants of the islands do not deal with multiple accuracy in relation to mainland Greece. It is our duty to the families who have chosen to stay in remote areas of the country. It's our debt to the next generations and the history of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a good mood to give you time, but time goes back to the whole process. Please be within time and context, with tolerance always. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, what has been done in Greece for the first time is done on the right. There were no others. Nothing has been done. All right did it in this place. How much does publicity affect humans? It is a catalyst for anyone to grope, listen to people who have no measure, irresponsible. They're coming up to the Step of the House and ignoring everything. Bravo! It's all you guys did. Let's go down. ‘Great the sea state’. Mr President, it is a saying that comes with Thucydides from Pericles and that actually reflects the relationship between the Greek people and the sea. It was the vision of the previous government. Based on this saying, we have designed intervention in all areas and it is confessed - not by people who are committed to SYRIZA, Mr Plakkatakis, but by all the operators of the port, the sea, the institutions - how the previous government worked and in what imperial way you operate. And I'm really sad about people as they are - whom I appreciate - Yannis Brutsis to ignore it. What government, dear Yannis Vrouchesi, voted to codify legislation? Since you don't know it, he asked the professor, Mr. Spyros Vlachopoulou, a very valuable man, a partner of Mr. Mitsotakis. When we voted for article 40 - I would refer you to it - to the setting up of the National Committee for the Codification of Legislation to tell you that I was then called by the amnesty Dimitris Sioufas, the President, and said to me "congratulations for what you are trying to do, because pluralism and bureaucracy are the gangrene of the Greek people". And I personally called Mr Mitsotakis - let him deny it - and I told him 'You are interested, Mr President, in taking part in this process'. And he appointed me as the representative of Mr Vlachopoulou. And you come here and say you vote for the codification of legislation. Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you embarrassed at all? A little braveness to recognize to some political opponents that something has been done? Mr President, I plead for codification because this place has been tortured by polynomialism for decades and then red tape comes and creates all these obstacles and problems. However, there are a number of issues that we need to raise. Mr President, the New Democracy has not voted for the transport equivalent. Forty years - the islanders must have heard and know - in all the election programmes of the parties there was the equivalent. Why didn't you? Even in the good days of fat cows, why didn't you? And the government came, which despite the restrictions that were in place by the troika, we secured that money that we started, we founded it. It wasn't a promise. I can now hear you talking about the laws that Mr Plakkatakis has passed. Let me say to Mr. Plakkatakis and ask him for public apologies from the law that passed in January 2021 how many decrees have been published and how many ministerial decisions have been made. Almost nothing. You're making fun of the world, you're making laws to create impressions. People know exactly what you're doing. What you did in naval education, which you are diffusing in privatization. We proclaimed seventy-two seats, Mr. Plakatakis. I challenge you, tell me how many you have accomplished for permanent staff in naval training. What are you talking about? You dismantled the KESEN, forced the commander to resign. The maritime registers are not working, and now that they need renewal of people's diplomas, what happens? Mr Tsikalakis complains about this by letter and, as you know, SYRIZA is not present, as you know very well. What kind of fairy tales are you telling us here? Not to tell you what you're doing to seafarers now. You used them this summer. People have worked both in the sea and in the sea, and here in the passenger, and now you are making them pay themselves. There are provisions that provide for the obligation of the shipowners. But you're the shipowners' child. What can we do? You're protected by them. When we took the ferry with those problems - and the islanders know about them - your regionals were also confessing, and Mrs Kalleros and Mr Hadjimarkos - that for the first time we saw something different. Because we made use of the money not for shipowners for the barren lines, but for the inhabitants of the islands. Mr President, we have a number of issues to do with shipping. The New Democracy liked the famous VAT. We were unable to bring it back because there were commitments, as could previous governments from us, because of European commitments. Now that you have no commitments, why don't you reduce it? Turn it down and see what's going on here. Tell the islanders you did something. Then you told us about Crete we didn't put Crete. I must say that we could not have wanted to put Crete. For many reasons we wanted to put Crete. Why don't you put it now? Come and tell the Cretan people that you promised at the time and you promised that you would proceed with this process. There is another issue, Mr President, which has to do with complaints from Members of the European Parliament about the relaunches. Are you going to tell us what's going on with the re-process story? Is there a European Union survey? You abolished Article 105 of the law we had passed, which at last placed a class in an anarchist field which had to do with the continuous extensions of the solid waste contracts. And what did you substitute him for? What have you replaced Directive 453 of the European Union to benefit certain interests, dark interests? What did you do about the 16% transfer? Will you tell us what happens in the ship repair zone, what insecurity prevails since the extension of the contract? Did you talk to anyone? So we will take the initiative and bring you to the relevant committees to discuss exactly this issue, which really is very important for the port. Because here is a lot of toys, because you substituted the concept of an adorable one. You're talking to them. What's going on in the transfer. You have become a party leader of the New Democracy. Where there is an opponent, you're chasing him with intolerance, and I'm very sorry, because I don't want to report. You know very well where I'm talking. What you do to a man who has a health problem and persecuted him with so much intolerance shows the color of the Right. Restore the color of the ETA, of those times, of the black days. That is what you represent, Mr Plakkatakis. There are too many problems in the shipping sector. At the request of the Greek Shipowners, it has restored the famous provision concerning, Mr President, the application of an international convention on lower crews. He was then saying that the Greek Shipowners' association, when they pushed me as Minister to implement it, would open the door for seventy thousand jobs. Now let Mr. Plakkatakis tell us how many people have gone because they demand that this contract, satisfying the logistics chapter of Greeks - the lower crew - be paid for with the Filipino wages. That's the work you've done, Mr. Placiotakis. Mr President, we supported Greek shipping in the EU's latitudes, because we believe that this is what we had to do, but we did not submit to the demands that we apply a working turnaway and Philippines wages to Greek seafarers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u78	We're continuing with Mr. Gika from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have diagnosed a very aggressive tone from Mr Kourublis, whom I appreciate and respect, but I cannot comment on the transfers, because we all know what has happened on your days and at the Ministry of Shipping and at the Ministry of National Defence. As regards today's draft law, we are today discussing the first code, essentially drawn up by the Central Coding Committee. The aim of codification is to systemize the whole policy regulatory framework so that citizens and administrative bodies can be given the opportunity to gain direct and secure knowledge of legislation and thus treat the paths of pluralism and evil in our country that afflict citizens. In this case, codification concerns island policy. The first section concerns Articles 1 to 11 of Law 4770/2021 on integrated maritime policy in the island area, a law which I had the honour of introducing to the National Representation last January. This law covered an empty one, having first introduced an integrated island policy for the country, because until then there have been attempts, but they have been fragmentary. The Act introduces the obligation to draw up a national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area. The national strategy sets out specific development objectives relating, inter alia, to port policy, maritime transport, island entrepreneurship and competitiveness, as well as to the maritime safety strategy. The national strategy sets out central objectives, strategies, specific development objectives and sets out priorities and describes its monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The code includes additional articles providing for the establishment of financial instruments such as the NEARTOS programme for public-sector projects, i.e. port infrastructure, transport and water management infrastructure and distribution networks and the provision of public maritime cabotage services. The new programme is an extremely important programme. I will set an example for my constituency of Corfu. It could well be that the Municipality of Central Corfu and Diaponding Islands would enter into a loan with the Deposit and Loan Fund for a port infrastructure repair on an island and the loan instalment to repay the Ministry of Shipping. So it's extremely important. The code also includes the funding programme of island entrepreneurship and competitiveness aimed at increasing competitiveness and innovation. Why? Because the islands are facing aggravating factors. The Code also includes the Maritime - Blue Economy Fund for the development and promotion of innovative entrepreneurship. It is worth a little mention of the establishment of the National Register of Bodies, which is essentially composed of four sub-registered research bodies, representatives of entrepreneurship, civil society and public bodies. It is essentially a tool for linking and working with actors in areas that are precisely related to the national strategy. An important addition to this part of the code is the Island Policy Council that will operate under the supervision of the Prime Minister within the framework of of of course the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. The Council shall deliver an opinion on the design and implementation of island policies, as well as on the basic principles of their development. A word on the second part of the draft law in which the provisions of Law 4551/2018 on the implementing mechanism and the conditions for the implementation of the transport equivalent are codified. It is important to indicate that the measure is financed by both the national and the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, while the provisions included identify the parameters for calculating the equivalent, the way in which applications are submitted and the way in which the compensation is paid. We note that the Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy increased the number of beneficiaries of the measure, and incorporated the companies in Crete, which the previous government had failed to comply with. In conclusion, the current legislation on island policy and citizens, as well as those who are required to implement it, is introduced. This is a policy area that our Government has upgraded, establishing for the first time an integrated island policy with tools, financial programmes to support the island economy and sustainable development of our islands. The Government of New Democracy takes serious account at last of the island population of our country, which is facing aggravating factors such as living costs, uninterrupted space, lack of basic infrastructure and equipment and so on. That is why, outside the transport equivalent to which it applies and which has been said by our Parliamentary representative, it has given the previous government credit - the integrated maritime policy on the island area already presents the first positive results. Recently, Minister Pakisotakis announced that a billion euro has been guaranteed in funds for coastal and port infrastructure, of course, including the projects under the NEARTOS programme. In conclusion, we find that the legislation included in the code has and will have an even more positive impact on the inhabitants of our islands, on local entrepreneurship and the economy and in general on island societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Maraveya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, I am forced before entering into the substance of the bill to address two things as important as the current news. First of all I have to answer the dear Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution. I think it's going through the wrong messages. Half - learning is sometimes worse and certainly more dangerous than immortality. A asymptomatic vaccinated person who uses personal protective equipment is therefore not as dangerous to public health. The symptom of course vaccinated and will perform the tests as planned for all those who are ill. Of course, it will also follow all the measures planned: quarantine, isolation and what will apply to someone who is ill either vaccinated or unvaccinated. But I also need to refer to a recent complaint from the SYRIZA concerning the National Health System and the treatment of coronary by the National Health System. The complaint was made by a fellow doctor, Mr. Markos, in this Chamber last Monday, who spoke about the mortality rates in the CIVID intensive care units of the ESS and, by addressing Mr. Ploiris, said "you bring personnel, who has no training, to the intensive care unit, and that is criminal. The result of this policy is mortality." So what did the colleague of the House say? That the new ITH beds that have been staffed in the previous period are essentially based on untrained people. In this "crime" he renders the allegedly increased mortality in the CIVIDs of public hospitals. Is it possible for a doctor, and indeed a former president of the SYRIZA, to accuse hundreds of colleagues of crime? Is it possible for a SYRIZA MEP to make such slandering and defamatory designations without any specific evidence? One could say, of course, that it is the opinion of a single MEP and not the party of the Police Vice-Population. I have, however, looked through and found the original text from a question from the Member concerned on 11 June - which I will be allowed to present in the Minutes - where it is shown that this view is not only of the Member in question, but that another thirty-seven Members of the SYRIZA share it. [[At this point, MEP Constantine Maraveyas submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In total, therefore, thirty - eight colleagues publicly blame hundreds of doctors and nurses that supposedly untrained led to the death of patients in the ESS's ATT COVID. Let us remind ourselves who these workers are denounced by the Civic Opposition. They are regular staff of the National Health System who have moved or been seconded over the past one and a half years to meet the emergency needs created by the pandemic. They are the same workers who were cutting off the Officer's Opposition party when the suspect spoke about the evaluation of services and not of the workers, who are being evaluated anyway, but now he can get them to the center by charging them even supposedly criminal offences. At least three of these thirty-eight colleagues signing this question are, in my opinion, unjustified because they have also nursed in ministerial posts but have also served the National Health System. Then, of course, one wonders why there are fellow citizens who have no confidence in dealing with pandemic from the National Health System. So we must at some point stand responsible for society and stop undermining the National Health System. I am passing on, Minister, to the essence of the bill and the specific economic measures it encodes because they form the basis of state aid which needs smaller islands, as are the northern Sporades in Magnesia and not just. Already the institutionalised financial programmes such as "NEARCHOS" the actions to support island entrepreneurship and, of course, the Maritime Blue Economy Fund open up a hopeful horizon for the inhabitants as well as for the entrepreneurs who are active in island Greece. However, the measure of the transport equivalent is the one that has so far proved to be the most relevant in the societies and economies of our islands. It is a measure aimed at balancing transport costs on an island with the costs we would have in mainland Greece for the same distance. However, through this measure, the purchase by islanders of different types of fuel, such as all types of unleaded petrol and diesel, LPG and even heating diesel, is subsidised. I would like to stress the continuing effort of the Ministry of Shipping to facilitate the beneficiaries, as it did a few days ago, by extending the deadline for submitting applications from the island companies for the equivalent to 11 October 2021. It was also important to simplify the payment of the island cost compensation for the supply of fuel to the inhabitants and businesses of the islands as from 1 August 2020. The same important thing is the state support to shipping enterprises and agencies for their participation in the system of subsidised ticketing of the transport equivalent to the permanent inhabitants of the islands. However, it is equally necessary to include in this system all airlines flying from and to the island country in order to pay the compensation to the beneficiaries in good time. Minister, following on from the successful implementation of the transport equivalent so far, I would like you to consider the possibility of extending it to other categories of staff other than contracted teachers and health services temporarily serving on the islands. It is an opportunity with the end of the pilot phase of the measure and the design of its permanent implementation to see how we can include other categories of workers, so that in the long term we offer a necessary incentive to those who are called to serve in island Greece often far away from their families. I am sure that you will consider positive the establishment of such a permanent economic incentive which will undoubtedly provide practical support to the local communities of our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA now. Here comes Mr. Melas. Then Mr. Santorinios will be followed. And we still have two speakers through Webex and the process is over. Of course the Minister will also speak after that, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Just as you sowed Macedonian conspiracies with headlines and emigrants to get the election audience of the Golden Dawn and now you're reaping anti-invasive conspiracy conspiracies, so just like you all of you from New Democracy who still invoke the centreright, even the democratic center, just as you've staggered on your election lists in 1919 only to get that part of the vote and win SYRIZA, he'll find it in front of you. This ego showing with the finger and targeting five-year-old children and urging the neonazi mob left out of jail will find him before you in your own party, you who insist to call yourself centre-right in a short time, when we will be here not just, as you do the reconstructs one after another, will take you one after the crucial ministries, but you will also get your own party. We are today voting for the codification of maritime policy legislation in the island area, which is essentially the island policy, a historic political innovation and a deposit of the SYRIZA government which, for the first time, incorporated the concept of islandity into legislation and administration. We all certainly agree with the codification of legislation as a necessary reform of modernisation and fairness. I am sure that you are projecting codification as your own initiative, when you have simply abolished the provisions for the Central Coding Committee that we had adopted under Law 4606/2019. You started from the beginning to give her supposedly finality and finally took you two years to make a codification of legislation, and even of the most easy ones. All this, of course, summarizes another aspect of the famous fulfillment that will remain chasing you. You have been dissatisfied forever with a policy that is essential to every modern government. We live in our place how you mean perfection and insularity, disembarking vandal uniforms to discipline us into above-mentioned decisions and building huge structures for permanent storage of refugees. But we also lived in the climax of the tourist season with the misery of the ferry connection between Lemnos, Ai Stratis and Lesvos, which could also be a comedy scenario if it were not real and did not hurt the daily life and economic life of such important islands. It happens all the time that the "AQUA BLUE" replaces the "CHAMPION JET", which replaces the "Super Runner Jet", which replaces the "AQUA STAR" just before the 15th century, which is damaged two days after Kavo Doro and again damage after four more days and one more damage after two days, while the freight services of cargo ships supplying Lesvos and Lesvos are also experiencing constant problems and we have reached a shortage of feed needed for an island with the livestock economy of Lesvos. I would like to point out these in detail so that everyone can see what vacancies your declarations of islandity, maritime policy and development are. In practice, they merely mean protection to mud shipowners who cannot meet the minimum obligations they undertake. Thousands of people are inconvenienced and imploding the development of our islands after so many years of recession because you cannot guarantee serious competitions, often routes and airships for our remote islands. Obviously since you voted for the law you are codifying now, we have not seen any of the financial instruments you have announced instantly, the funding programme for island entrepreneurship, the maritime-blue economy fund, and so on, which were supposed to raise millions. Where there are millions, in the resources of the NRP and the Recovery Fund, you predict the two-thirds to go to those who need them less and obviously to the specific interests of shipowners and shipowners, as you do everywhere. The concept of island and island policy was proposed to promote those special conditions on islands that prevent regional convergence, regenerate inequalities and make it difficult for their development, their social and economic development, as well as their people's equal access to public goods, conditions that ultimately make the inhabitants of our islands penalise the fact that they insist on living in their country. So where are your applied policies on island? That wasn't - supposedly - the purpose of your law? You haven't even made the ministerial decisions provided for in your law in all these months. In the second part of today's bill you codify basic laws of the SYRIZA government on transport equivalent, politics - station in island policy. You never wanted it because you opposed the most basic assumptions of a neoliberal rule like yours, but you had to accept it because our islands, residents and businesses needed it. You are, however, trying to despair and undermine citizens' trust in the measure, delaying payments for the beneficiaries even for six months. You do so in this time when our islands were desperately in need of liquidity. The worst part of this deserving effort is the fuel subsidy for all the islands planned by the SYRIZA government and should have started. Instead, we have a record of fuel accuracy on the islands, that is, what was missing from the economy of our islands. Your intolerance with progressive policies is not hidden here either, but the contagious policies of transport equivalent and island policy will undertake to restore them and extend them to the progressive government that will succeed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Melas has the floor. We'll continue with Mr. Santorinio. Then we have two Webex. I see Mr. Melas isn't here. So Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with something the previous speaker referred to and there is a characteristic disgrace from the New Democracy Party. Mr. Bogdanos: You risk being classified as the "bogdan-right" because it is not easy to see a politician, a representative of Parliament targeting young children and using such extreme right-wing racist behaviours, bringing xenophobic subscriptions to our country. Mr Placiotakis, I will ask for your institutional role not as Minister but as former President of the New Democracy, and I will ask you to put yourself on this issue, because it seems to me that Mr Bogdano has deliberately done so. He saw that many extreme right-wing miners were indulging and said to show more extreme right and that Mr Mitsotakis was indulging in the next remodelling. Of course I will not fail to talk about the announcements made by the Prime Minister at the IGC, because the anointed people say: "Every miracle three days, the great four." Finally, the anointed Greek people came out right, because yesterday Mr. Economou told us that other measures would come. Obviously the measures announced by Mr Mitsotakis were 'carbons', because of the 3.4 billion he has told us, whether they are measures that are implemented, whether they are extensions and only new ones are 400 million, so away from society, it does not touch households. As I said before, the electricity aid does not even touch the business. The business representative came out yesterday and said 'it is not about us'. Should the continuation of the exceptional solidarity levy not at least go to some categories of civil servants? The sanitary people you applauded them? Shouldn't he be there? You told us about the extension of the programme 'COMPANY WORK'. Do you remember what the programme 'COMPANY - WORK' is? Half a wage, half a job, half a life. What you reserve for young people, because for young people all you know to do, as if you are no mobile phone company, is give them data. That you abolished them by eight o'clock, that you optimized working relationships? Even these 1 200 euros that Mr Mitsotakis allowed on the air are finally 100 euros a month, but without any precondition for continuing work and even for those who have never worked before. So, what if someone worked a month this summer as a waiter? Even for business, we've asked you from the beginning. Stop asking businesses, which have basically been destroyed by the pandemic to repay the money back in advance. Even there ignorant. And what do you think? We're reducing the tax rate from 24% to 22%. For those who have profits! Who have profits today in the pandemic? As for PPC, PPC Golden Boys are interested only in the company’s profit, as if PPC’s goal is to make profits. PPC must provide cheap electricity and create conditions so that we can have cheap electricity in our country and not be champions in Europe. That's what you don't understand. You're celebrating for the profits he shouldn't have. PPC should today create conditions for reducing energy costs. Let's go to the bill now. First codification after two years of service state. And the fact that it took place after two years is an absolute responsibility for Maximus, because we had the central codification committee that you took to the General Secretariat of the Government in Maximos. So the delay is the responsibility of the Prime Minister himself. And what do you start? From two bills that had one, two amendments. That's a great coding. Why don't we go to the Home Office, why don't we go to the Treasury and make codification? There are incomprehensible legal texts which cause a problem for the citizen. But let him have it. I have heard in the committees the position of the Minister and the rapporteur of the New Democracy who have said that the two laws on island policy are codified. That's what you said. So since one law is yours what existed for island policy all these years was a law. The transport equivalent. So you admitted that the transport equivalent was the only law that was applied to island policy. Now the law you brought in January on maritime policy laid down preconditions for drawing up the national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area. It wasn't the national strategy, and it's not yet. Because in six months, you had to bring us the national strategy, but we're still waiting for it. The joint ministerial decisions on the implementation of the funds have not come out. So what have you done? Is what we told you, which we criticised, justified this criticism? Minister, because you were prepared for the committee because you knew I was going to talk about your announcements, I imagine you will answer me. So you say that you are funding for forty-four insular and interregional coastlines of EUR 370 million. How many years? For four to seven, with a replacement incentive. What's that actually? Are these new lines? Oh, no. It is simply a transfer of funds from the public investment programme to the NSRP where the conditions for repayment are more difficult. Let's not talk about this. Can we replace ships with a four-year investment? Oh, no. So what motives are you telling us? These resources could have been used for other cohesion actions in the island. For example, they could have been used - they could have been used if they did not go there on the coastline, which is guaranteed funding from the PPC - to health support, to cost subsidies for doctors, teachers, education, medical services, digital services, to charging projects to welcome the electricity ships, the ports, to a number of island projects that are deprived of by these 370 million you have announced. And at the same time you say financing three lines of the central coastline with 300,000 euros. First of all, I would like to say that it is positive from the 'NEARCHOS' programme. I will say that it is a good thing and it is what we have announced for twelve years, multi-annual contracts conditional on the replacement of ships - remember, Minister - and we have brought it to you in the amendment when we were discussing the amendment to 2932. You didn't accept it. Without a legal framework, what you are talking about is what you are talking about. In fact, you forgot to say that this has started on our own initiative, with a study carried out by the 'COOPER HOUSE' in collaboration with the Chamber of Navy and the shipowners. And speaking of the coasters, Minister, will you ever pay them? You owe them sixty million. Sixty million are owed to the coastline, and you know it's not just the big sea capital, but they're small boaters who don't have to put oil. Are you gonna pay them or stop the connections, despite the fact that you're celebrating? And because you keep telling us about increasing this shipping budget, the Public Investment Program for 2021 for the Ministry of Shipping describes 140 million of whom 72 for the headquarters. That's the money you've written about the ferry. 138 we'll get them, but they're not registered. Just so we know what we're talking about. With modifications likely, but not secured. We are now going to the port infrastructure. Thirty-three budget projects for 175 million in the NSRP 2021-2027. I told you last time. A total of three hundred seventy million were financed in the NSRP 2014-2020. And because you're challenging me, what are these plays? And because I have no time to tell you that these are works in Lefkada, Corfu, Syros, Mykonos, Rhodes, Fortunes, Lemnos, Mytilini, Chios, Samos, on a series of islands. Not to say it wasn't works on islands. Will you bring us a text of approval for these projects? Is it just your suggestion? Because there's the corporate pact for the new program. In this context, there is no mention of any shipping programme. It's transport. In fact, the total funding for the transport programme is 700 million. You're the one who raises 540 million. You stole them, Minister. Bravo! From the 700 of them you got the 540. I guess something's not right here, something's not right. I'll submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. To avoid commenting on 20 million for the recovery fund from a programme of 18 billion. As far as the new round is concerned, that is not a budget. In the medium term, the Ministry's budget goes from 140 this year to 105. The law we are voting on today in Article 6 says that the loan from the Deposit and Loan Fund will be repaid by the Ministry's FIFG. How is that possible? That's not enough for what the Department has already set up. How will the Deposits and Loans be paid out by a public investment programme that is constantly falling? You'll explain all this to us because math doesn't come out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And to go to the metaphor, I've been waiting for a list, Minister, since January for ERASH. You said that the 60 million lost would be projects that will enter the NSRF - in this NSRF, not in the next - for the port. I'm waiting for this list. Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, this is on Facebook. Eleven thousand have inside, citizens, islanders in favour of the transport equivalent. Do you know when it was created? You've just taken over the command. And you know why? Because here it has a nice photo - I've erased the names - it mentions 'four months we wait for the transport equivalent to be paid'. When was this done on our own governance? Every month the islanders took their money. Operations took their money every four months and not every six months. In terms of fuel - because I heard Mr. Pappas say that in '17 and '18 prices were high - in 1919 how prices were? Were the low in the small islands? It was. When did prices stop being low? You have just made the big change to the transport equivalent and abolished the fuel subsidy. And don't hear now that, you know, we put on the heating oil. You could've put the heating oil in, and, well, you're right you put the heating oil on. You could've put the heating oil in the pump, just like the rest of the fuel. And since I want to be positive, I will follow the proposals which have been heard: a subsidy for the student ticket, the integration of students. We need to set the electronic invoice now, so that the process can really be simplified and that the MAN of the company enters the electronic invoice, that other civil servants, such as teachers, are given two tickets to all the citizens of the country, to strengthen domestic tourism on the islands and to approach the vision of Tasos Aliferis. And because I have heard from Mr Consola, who spoke about dual islandity, one is the solution: categorisation of the islands on the basis of their development potential. I will close - and thank you very much, Mr President - with a reference to the amendment to the COSCO Convention. Minister, you can't hide her anymore. You cannot hide the fact that 'COSCO' in August did not complete projects of 295 million and from what we learn you are giving them ten years of extension - ten years of extension! - to complete, five plus five optional! You cannot hide that you are basically not applying the criminal clauses, accepting the responsibility of the public that 'COSCO' did not make the investments. That's a breach of duty! Twenty-five million are calculated on the basis of the criminal clauses you do not collect. Five million a year receives the Greek State from 16% of the shares you want to give. You can no longer hide them from the Greek people, because you create something else, an investor culture that does what it likes in this place, and our country is not banana! Can't anyone who wants to come and do whatever they like in this place! Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll say a thing and I'll close with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u86	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u87	Minister, five ports were suspended because they were administrative support in health units. But they are not primarily management in health establishments. They are mostly ports. You could take these unvaccinated ports to another service and go vaccinated. Because I know that maybe at least one case is also a single parental family. Is that how you support the Port Corps? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u88	We are now continuing with Mr Apostleou via Webex. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u89	Minister, the bill you brought to January 2021 was your suggestion of an integrated maritime policy. That is what your rapporteur said about today. I would expect at least beyond codification, your proposal for the island status of the country to be more specific, especially as regards potential and comparative advantages. I would also expect you to make a reference to the initiatives taken by our own government on islands. I shall refer to the fact that I, at least as Minister, served islands and, above all, to respond in particular. We have therefore tabled an integrated plan for the primary sector, with some of it already being implemented. Factors taken into account in the formulation of our project were all those elements that were an incentive and at the same time a challenge to develop the primary sector in all the island regions of our country as a small, high added-value sector, decisive synergy with other branches and a factor of internal cohesion and balance. What did we do to support our plan? Firstly, 37% of the resources of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme were allocated, together with the LEADER Programme, to provide substantial funding. We have thus been able to serve special provisions for supporting islands by means of the measure of young farmers in the smaller islands, especially when the establishment concerns the livestock sector, measures - incentives for small farms in the smaller island regions, measures - incentives to support the modernisation of agricultural holdings - the improvement plans - measures to certify agricultural products, but in particular the quality or processing and marketing of agricultural products and the setting-up of young farmers. These measures were specific interventions. We also re-elected the special programme to strengthen the transfer of raw materials from mainland Greece to the small islands, as well as local agricultural production and traditional exports from the same islands. I am going to expand the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. We've been through this before. The express reference to Evia and Crete is positive. It had also been discussed by our own government. However, I would like to make it clear that it is not enough by itself, because islands are defined by European regulations, according to which, as small Aegean islands, they are defined as having a permanent population of up to 100 000. That is why Community funding under the Rural Development Programme and the European Commission's Regulations on support for agriculture in the smaller Aegean islands does not change. It will only change support with national measures not financed by the European Union. Evia and Crete are therefore still excluded from the favourable provisions for the smaller Aegean islands, such as the increased rate of aid for private investment and so on. There is also Regulation 229/2013, which also finances specific measures for agriculture in the smaller Aegean islands, such as the equivalent of transport to agricultural products and agri-foods. And in the definitions of this regulation, Evia and Crete are explicitly excluded. As far as fuels are concerned, while the application of the grant to all islands, as planned by our government, should have started, the New Democracy has abolished this part of the measure as a whole, replacing it with only a small allowance for residents. As a result of this choice, there is a disproportionate increase in fuel costs and especially in the small islands and the price of unleaded to exceed EUR 2 at this time. The wide acceptance of the transport equivalent by the inhabitants and businessmen of the small islands forced your Government to continue. I am very pleased about that, because it has forced you to accept, Minister, that it was the work of the SYRIZA Government. But the delays in payments are high. Your government did not go on subsidising fuel on all the islands, as we are planning. Nor does it make more brave measures to extend the measure we have proposed, such as the integration of all the inhabitants of the country with a view to strengthening internal tourism. They must therefore have a substance and content... (it has not been heard because of a poor connection) all this should be redefined in consultation with the European Commission, either by amending the relevant regulations or by adopting new ones. Before I close my speech, I would like, Minister, to make your Government's commitment to making effective that in the north-eastern Evia affected, but also in Evia in general, islandism and the equivalent of transport will find full implementation, which has not been ratified by the institutions. I want to express my last complaint. What should we expect when it is still a question of linking it to the...(didn't heard because of a bad connection)? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u90	Mrs Iatridis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the interesting debate in plenary on the bill and I would like to say to my SYRIZA colleagues: the islanders have not forgotten - and how can they forget? - that the reduced rates of VAT on our island have been abolished by the government of SYRIZA. I would remind you here that all previous governments had fought with the institutions to maintain the reduced rates of VAT on the islands, so that SYRIZA could come to one night and abolish them. And not just that. In his attempt to justify unjustified excuses he also made arguments in speaking of rich and poor, of large and small islands. The abolition of this island Greece does not forget it. It is a constant request for all of us to reintroduce the reduced VAT rates when there is the financial area. This reinstatement has declared that it will seek the government to do. It is something that, with proper economic planning, even in the midst of pandemic, I think we can do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be standing in the transport equivalent. Two comments. The first is that the transport equivalent came as a SYRIZA policy to compensate for the abolition of reduced VAT rates. In fact, whereas the reduced rates of VAT were for all islanders, conditions and conditions were laid down for the application of the transport equivalent. The second point is that, whatever it may be, it is also a support policy for islanders and it must continue to be. In this context, the Government of this draft law codifies the articles of Law 4551/2018 concerning the equivalent of transport, a matter directly related to the island of Greece. This codification simplifys the whole process of financing the transport equivalent, namely the beneficiaries, the way in which it is calculated, the way in which applications are made and the method of payment, but the reasons for stopping such payment. In other words, islanders have a clear picture of the equivalent of transport and the procedures and operations that operate on the islands are simplified. It is clear that we can see this process gradually through this process. Ladies and gentlemen, because I come from the Dodecanese and have heard a number of comments from colleagues from the opposition, I feel obliged to point out the following. Taking into account the pandemic and its consequences, the maritime transport is one of the best at this time. The islanders in Kalymnos, Patmos and Lero saw more dense routes and even with modern speedboats. Same in Kastelorizo, a major island for our national status, or Symi with a dense coastal network. The same happened in the line of Crete with Rhodes through Kassos, Halkis and Karpathos. The transport was never interrupted. On the contrary, it was also strengthened by the launch of a high-speed ship, which significantly upgraded the connection between these islands and the tourist movement. It is worth mentioning here that despite the financial consequences of the pandemic, the Mitsotakis Government and the Ministry of Shipping kept the ferry network up especially in winter, so that it can meet the requirements of summer. These are real facts. The islanders are living in them and we are seeing a maritime transport that meets the challenges today. Of course, we don't stop here. I think we should also see where we can improve. For example, the connection of the heroic island of Kasos and Karpathos from Piraeus can be improved by launching a more modern and faster conventional ship. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs has made a significant increase in the funds for barren lines and possibly, together with the promotion of long-term contracts, to further improve maritime transport and, of course, to see the renewal of our shipping fleet. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are at the end of the debate, I will not go far. I would like to refer here to Turkey's unacceptable policy on fishing, which operate very close and abusively on the shores of our remote islands. This situation must be stopped by further strengthening the Port House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government and the Minister of Planning have proceeded with the planning of a realistic island policy. With the NEARTHOS programme, the Recovery Fund and the NSRF will be able to finance critical infrastructures for our islands at last. Of course, these infrastructures also concern our smaller islands, such as the coastline in Telendos. This gives us the opportunity to create an even more extrovert, creative and productive island Greece in which islanders will live, create and ensure the Greekity of our Aegean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Melas from New Democracy has the floor. Immediately after that, the rapporteurs will take the floor if they so wish. There's no interest in that. And in the end, the Minister will speak. Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u93	We are talking today about a very important bill specifically for us MPs who are elected to regions that have islands and we know that the inhabitants there are to be, to be and to be alive, we must make policies for them. I will start by saying this about today's bill. It has a particular value, not only for the substance of the bill, but also for the symbolic significance of it, because it is the first code of legislation drawn up by the Central Coding Committee in application of Article 66 of Law 4622/2019 of the Final State Act. With the codification of legislation, we achieve better legislation. We succeed in making the clearer, simpler and understandable legislation for all citizens. We are fighting pluralism, maliciousness and provisions that change other provisions and cause difficulties in administration and the commander. With this code, therefore, the citizens of our islands will be able to simply and easily know the legislation on island policy. The whole framework for the integrated maritime and island policy shall be introduced. This bill also includes the objectives and procedures for the preparation of the national strategy and the functioning of the NEARTHOS programme, the financing of the island entrepreneurship and the Maritime Blue Economy Fund. It is worth making a reference to these development programmes. The NEARTHOS programme provides funding for projects of a public nature aimed at the sustainable development of ports and the improvement of their basic infrastructures. It concerns projects in the fields of port infrastructure and facilities, building infrastructure and equipment for the port authorities, public maritime schools and others. Already a few days ago, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs announced two projects under the 'NEARTOS' programme. Projects, studies and interventions for the extension and upgrading, maintenance and operation of port projects and assistance in land areas up to EUR 200 million over a period of four years and the financing of three lines of the central coastline of EUR 300 million with an obligation to launch new vessels are also planned. The funding programme for island entrepreneurship also concerns strengthening and restructuring the productive development model of the island regions. It is mainly addressed to enterprises operating at sea, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Emphasis is placed on supporting operational costs for business conservation and sustainability. There is also the Maritime-Blue Economy Fund. The aim of this fund is to promote innovative entrepreneurship in the field of the marine economy and blue development. Emphasis is placed on the fields of maritime technology, maritime and shipbuilding equipment, the development of applications and the use of information and communication technologies in these sectors. It will be financed from national and European resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions on the transport equivalent relating to our islands are also codified. What's the metaphor? It equates the cost of transporting passengers and goods through the sea with the costs that they would have on land transport. Recipient permanent inhabitants of the islands will be able to make use of the unique number of islands when issuing their tickets to be financed with the difference in transport costs. Furthermore, beneficiaries of the islands may enter into the action and submit requests for financing the transport of their goods to and from the islands. The budget for 2021 shall be EUR 80 million. In 2018, the transport equivalent was institutionalised by the previous government. During its implementation, various issues have arisen which the current government and the Ministry of Shipping have come up with corrections. It is a characteristic example that the law of SYRIZA excluded Lefkada, Evia, and Crete from the equivalent transport. By decision of our own government, an equivalent transport was introduced for companies in Crete from 1-1-2020, and it is considered to be extended to the passengers of Crete as well. Also, the decision by the Minister of State, Mr. Placiotakis, has been included in this measure, and islands that are not tax-driven, and heating oil has also been added to the eligible fuels for the transport equivalent. At the same time, the provisions for the financing of the transport equivalent are simplified and the beneficiaries of the programme become specific. The transport equivalent is a kind of reward for our islands that keep our islands alive. It is the "thank you" of our country towards all those who keep the economic activity of the islands alive and at the same time ensure the sovereign rights of Greece at sea. That is why all the islanders and all the businesses involved in the islands must enjoy it. Ladies and gentlemen, for all of us in New Democracy, the sea, our islands, maritime borders, shipping, our seamen are conditions of great value, we respect them and recognize their offer. Our country has a tradition in shipping and in the global seas there are more than four thousand Greek-owned ships. The insularity of our country can therefore be a key pillar of development and progress for both our society and our economy, and we will invest in that by exploiting all available financial instruments. Some time ago the Ministry of Shipping announced the funding of forty-four projects to upgrade the port infrastructure to islands and forty-seven ferry lines of EUR 1 billion, to be made available for the shipping and ports of our islands. This ensures adequate and quality maritime connections, but also modern and secure port infrastructure. We have Piraeus, one of the largest ports in the Mediterranean. Its strategic position between Europe and the East turns Piraeus into a hub of trade in innovation and entrepreneurship. The use of our islands can be made at many levels: with investments in the blue economy as it has done in Piraeus in recent years with the Business Innovation Centre for Blue Development. By strengthening island entrepreneurship, by promoting marine and fishing tourism, which will create new jobs and lead to the development of local areas. With the development of business activity in the field of ship recycling, an activity which, according to the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce and Industry, can contribute to limiting the exhaustion of raw materials and saving resources for the shipbuilding industry. By improving infrastructure and services for the further development of our tourism. Investments in shipping and the blue economy will further strengthen Greece's position on the global maritime map. After all, the biggest chapter in our country is and will always be the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u94	We are now ending with the Minister. Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, I am very pleased to bring before Parliament the first code of legislation which is part of the government's policy of codifying the main areas of action of the ministries. It is commonly accepted, and I think this debate also shows that codification is perhaps the most important tool in the effort that we all have to do towards combating pluralism, illegality, the unregulated existence of diffuse legislation, which ultimately contribute to the essential ignorance of law, but above all to the inability to monitor by the ordinary citizen of the institutional framework that regulates his rights and obligations in a rule of law. You know, of course, that in the past many such efforts have been announced in a splendid way. We heard today that the initiative had been launched for your days. Tell us what you really did. Because political value has the effect and not the intention. Efforts were therefore announced, but none of them achieved the desired result. They were recorded as simply repeated expressions of a political wish, we heard them today, without a start and, of course, without a final result. The current government has already demonstrated from the first law introduced by the Parliament, that its main concern is the development and diffusion of the concept of adequacy in every area of the state structure. Of course, legislation as a source of rules of law has a key role to play in achieving the fundamental objective of the state of staff, which is not the establishment and functioning of the state mechanism in a transparent, fair, beneficial and effective manner for every citizen and every body. My personal pleasure is that the principle of codification procedures of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is carried out through the code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the area of islands. This is because this policy is innovative for Greek data, as its title says, coherently structured and creatively with clear objectives, orientation and implementation tools. The reality is that Greece, the very multi-Israeli country in Europe, had failed, in the 200 years of its history as an independent state, to formulate a policy for its islands with the features that I described to you. It is only enough in individual, in many fragmentary measures without consistency, without programming, without means of implementation, without sufficient service to the most sensitive part of our country's social fabric. This substantially changes to Law 4770/2021 of the integrated maritime policy for the island area. This law is the epitome of regional policy on our islands, which identifies all those elements that make up the complex life and development cycle of the islands, which can ultimately offer important and tangible opportunities to all, natural and legal persons, to see the future of the islands under a fully-structured perspective of perspective and creation. I have listened very carefully to what has been said during the committee meeting, but today, and let me refer to them without a political debate, but in a spirit of understanding of this new development effort that we have initiated with this law. I am pleased that the codification bill gives another opportunity to discuss at the parliamentary level on maritime and island issues, two areas for which the New Democracy Government has in practice demonstrated, not only with the legislation that we have proposed, but also with our daily action and our interventions, that it considers it crucial for growth, the economy and society. I will not go into detail what we have done and do, but because some, especially in SYRIZA, seem to forget what they did not do while they should, and try to distort our work, I would remind you that we supported the fishing industry and even at a difficult time of pandemic. We supported our seafarers, supported operations with more than EUR 200 million. We have drawn up, in time, with the cooperation of special scientific health protocols and for the maritime and for the cruise. This year, especially for the cruise, we are the first to draw up integrated protocols for the cruise. In this way investors, as well as companies, knew very well what the framework is, therefore, especially for this reason, and the cruise has been working since May in our home country. We have also strengthened the Port House - and you know it very well - by means, by multiplying its business potential. This, together with the over-representation of men and women in the Port House, has led to a dramatic reduction in migration flows, and it is more impressive when I mention the reduction in absolute numbers. Sixty-seven thousand illegal arrivals in our country in 2019, in 2020, we only had nine thousand nine hundred and so far in 2021 we have limited them to two thousand. Sixty-seven thousand illegal arrivals in 2019, two thousand illegal arrivals to date. Let me, however, on this point - and I am really deeply saddened by the fact - say that both Mr. Dritsa and Mr. Kurublis, former ministers of shipping, both, are slandering the representatives of the Port House, but also our own country. Greece protects, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, its maritime borders - because Greece has maritime borders - with determination and respect for the rules of international law and, of course, the protection of human life. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Port House, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, managed a thousand incidents in the last year and a half and we had no human life loss. So no order for illegal action was given, and nor could it be given. It is therefore worth commending the women and men of the Port House for their defence and not false accusations that give arguments to Turkish propaganda. Since you referred to the ESTABI, I would like to tell you that suddenly you remembered the ERIC that for days you had completely forgotten and knew why? Because you are the policy of open borders. You didn't want to do this here, so you delayed exemplaryly. So what did we do? We are moving on to the integrated maritime operation system which is a project of national and strategic importance, where, in essence, it will be our eyes in the eastern Aegean, Crete and the Ionian Sea, making the operations of the Port House much more direct and decisive. You told me about the projects he was supposed to replace. These projects are already in progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u96	The list.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u97	I can get you the list, but these projects are already running.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u98	Let's see the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u99	Obviously. But there are currently work on equipment for the Port House which has never been done in the timeless history of this House. There are projects where we will receive new modern boats.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u100	Minister, these are our declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u101	Not yours, they are absolutely our works. Absolutely, 100% of our projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u102	It can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u103	I see there's a precursor, you'll answer next. We also significantly increased security...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u104	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u105	You know, the truth hurts, and here we are to talk about everything today. Procedures for using the ports of the country with very important businesses and groups already manifested their interest and suddenly caught pain for 'COSCO'. Weren't you the one who signed the concession with 'COSCO'? If I'm not mistaken, your government did. What did he actually do? He recognized the great work of our governments both in Piraeus and Thessaloniki. On the same day, however, when you signed the concession at the same time, the relevant ministers were literally crying because this privatization went on. That's who you were. At the same time that you signed the concession, at the same time going crazy? Because that was also what was seen in practice. You are, in fact, undermining investments in the port of Piraeus, but we will have the opportunity during the reassessment of the concession agreement to discuss all of this. We have also secured - and I shall then have the opportunity to analyse - resources of more than EUR 1 billion. It is for the first time, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy that indirectly acquires a sectorial programme and of course we have established for the first time in Greece an integrated policy for island Greece with specific financial instruments that enhance the development process and offer opportunities and opportunities for our islands. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your embarrassment because you have never thought of the islands as the scope for implementing development initiatives. In addition to the fine words, you have actually done nothing for our islanders and you are coming today, colleagues of the SYRIZA, and you are accusing us of the fact that the joint ministerial decisions have not gone ahead. Those who did nothing are now blaming us because there is a delay. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do not worry. Most of the decisions are being signed and will be published very soon. However, it takes time for particular attention to be paid to the procedures that are actually done for the first time in our country, and we have a duty and responsibility towards our islanders to do everything the right. After all, the institutional framework is already fruitful, as it is the main negotiating mechanism for specialising the resources of the ESDP and the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the convergence of our islands' regional disparities will not come with the implementation of a programme alone. It requires a strategy, spatial specialisation and an investment of public money targeted at and at economic production factors and not in subsidised horizontal approaches. Development comes with targeted funding and not with benefits. Support injections should be focused on the disease and should cure the causes and not the symptoms. This is fundamental - if we can all agree - especially when invoking local and regional island development. Recently we presented our Ministry's planning in the context of the specialisation of the integrated maritime policy for the island area and contacted part of our plan to support public maritime transport and, of course, critical port infrastructure on our islands. Obviously it is not easily understood, because it is so important that these funds should be made available over the next few years, especially those who did not plan strategically, but with short-term planning to justify turning the back into our islands. What, then, does this planning for infrastructure and coastline of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy include, and is making combined use of the resources of the NSRP 2021-2027, the Recovery Fund and the NERARCHOS, which we are already introducing with the Deposit and Loan Fund? In cooperation with the port administrations, therefore, thirty-three projects totalling EUR 175.210,000 for upgrading port infrastructure on the islands through the new NSRP 2021-2027 with documented, I repeat, a proposal. It's never happened. Has it ever been documented, with the signature of the Minister for Maritime Affairs, a proposal for the financing of port infrastructure on the islands? All that you have said before is funding from the MAGPs. That's the reality. Also, eleven projects totalling EUR 20 million to tackle climate change and erosion in port infrastructure and facilities in island areas through a special action of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, which has been integrated into our country's national recovery and resilience plan. We also prefer through a special scientific study and in cooperation with bodies - because we are doing everything we do is documented and deeply studied - forty-four insular and interregional lines that will be financed with EUR 370 million - these are extra money, new money - to serve public maritime transport through multi-annual contracts of four to seven years. You said, beforehand, who would invest in new ships when it has four to seven years of contracts. I inform you that they will invest, because seven years are enough for small island lines. We are not talking about multi-years, about long journeys. We are talking about small specific routes. So, there will be investors. This is the first time that we have provided Community funds for both the island lines and, I think, the same - three lines for the central maritime network of public maritime transport with an obligation - I think we all agree on this - we will see the details - a multi-annual contract of at least 10 years which will be financed by the NEARTOS programme with EUR 300 million. Of course, up to EUR 200 million will be the budget for the NEARTHOS programme with an accession horizon over the next four years and it is expected to operate as a fund for small, critical projects. Indicate before and before the program ‘PHILADIMOS’ and the ‘ION TIME’. It will work on these standards, because projects on the islands cannot wait. I would also like to inform you that, in addition to our contact with the Deposit and Loan Fund, there will also be contact with the European Investment Bank, where it has shown considerable interest in participating in the financing of this programme, projects for our islands, particularly for the small islands, in port infrastructure, in water management infrastructure, in desulphurisation. Also, in contact with the Greek Development Bank, we are launching the activation of the institutionalised financial instruments for the islands and the blue economy. I have heard several colleagues speak about the programme, our proposals, Northern Evia and more extensively about Evia. You know, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy because just for our day, Evia has become an island, so it actually exploits the advantages of islands after its recognition, we already have a ready plan, ready proposals that will be announced in the next few days to support the inhabitants and businesses in particular in northern Evia. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government has changed our data in the way the Greek state is approaching islands and islands. For the first time, a policy for the islands of Greece has been established. For the first time, fragmentary interventions give way to a holistic approach. For the first time, the obligation of the national strategy for the island area is introduced with clear and measurable indicators. I hope that all parties will vote in favour of the bill, emphatically recognising the positive effect of codification for both the state and above all for the citizens. At the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy we continue the path we have taken. We exploit the positives of the past. We are, however, moving ahead with steady steps in the implementation of our policies for which the Greek people have trusted us. We are doing a series of areas in shipping and insularity, serving our ambitious but also realistic plan for development in the island area of our country. I really hope that this objective and the purpose of islands will be a national objective so that the inhabitants of our islands can look forward to a positive present and even more positive future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u106	The process is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an honour to inform you of number one. Page 128 8152/5778, from 16 September 2021, judgment of the President of the Parliament on the definition of Jurisdiction of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: 'Following the code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the area of islands and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of the Transport Equivalent'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u111	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u114	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Following a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the area of islands and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of the Transport Equivalent’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u120	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u121	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Following a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the area of islands and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of the Transport Equivalent’, it was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, at the outset and in the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u123	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-16-S1-commons.u124	With the consent of the House at 16.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 17 September 2021 and 9.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny.
