ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 18-12-2021 authorisation was confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of its minutes at its meetings on Tuesday, December 14, 2021, the MF's meeting on Wednesday, December 15, 2021, the MZ's meeting on Thursday, December 16, 2021, the MM's meeting on Friday, December 17, 2021 and the IM's meeting on Saturday, December 18, 2021, including the discussion and vote on the draft law: ‘State budget year 2022’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by Mrs Rallia Christidou, MP for the B3' South Athens Sector, the following:]] A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES [[Enter the reports from the relevant e-mail]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us of the timely questions at today's sitting and we are already moving on to the first. So will the first question with number 548/21-10-2021 be discussed in the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charalambou Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Will tolls be imposed on all thirty-two kilometres of the northern road axis of Crete in front of the city of Heraklion?" The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. George Karagiannis. Because, of course, it is generally what I am going to say now - we also have a bill then, too, great, I would ask all colleagues to keep track of the time. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I hope, as far as possible, that I am brief and concise. Mr Secretary-General, as has now been made clear by the government's announcements in recent years - especially in the last year of 2021 - with the presentation in Arsenali of Chania on 29 May 2021, the presentation of the allegedly unified BOAK, in view of the fact that it is likely to be divided, some reasonable questions have arisen and indeed the ones I am referring to in my question today. We studied very carefully the environmental impact study on the main axis of the project for the section of Chania - Heraklion, where two major sections are based. It's the Souda - Aciopopoulos and the Amari node until Linopera. Until an area, that is, before the city of Heraklion. The study, therefore, focuses on them. In the two large areas which will essentially take place the construction work will also take place. Why? Because from Aciopopoulos to the Amari node it passes by perimeter to the city of Rethymno and, respectively, from Linoperms and east there is a complete - I stress, Mr President - construction work of previous years, with public resources and, of course, via the NSRF, which actually includes the city of Heraklion, a large area of twenty-five kilometres [25 km]. From there, therefore, this has emerged: There is an ambiguity why the inhabitants of the island and especially the citizens who live in the three urban centers, namely Chania, Heraklion and Rethymnon, should pay tolls for the use of the parts of the BOAK that has already been built. And that is not all, I will show you in my dentistry that there is an issue of caging, because if there is no alternative model of driving, it also goes against Community directives. I am, however, in the first part, asking you, Mr Minister, what is the feasibility of this ambiguity, especially in the case of the city of Heraklion, which I mentioned in detail? Overall, over the past five years, large sums have been invested for the security of Heraklion. Of course, there is another question I asked Mr Karamanlis and it is still unanswered, which relates to the gateways to the city of Heraklion, which is also a key issue and security, but also to the proper functioning of the city of Heraklion, which I am appalled to say is also the third city. Now, in conclusion to the prototype and asking questions, Mr Secretary, what is clearly put on our side - and we want it to be made clear by you too - is this. Do you intend to apply tolls during the use of the BOAK in the departments, especially in front of the urban centres that I mentioned to you and especially Heraklion, given the built completed work twenty-two kilometres? Secondly, on the basis of your Ministry's current design, in relation to the use of the BOAK for drivers moving - this - inland on the vertical axis, how can these people not be charged, given that they will not use the BOAK? And you know that particularity that exists on Heraklion's roadway and transport network, where there is a clone. You can't leave to the south on the perpendicular axes if you don't cross through the reasonable part of the BOAK. Thirdly, when assessing your Ministry, is the imposition of tolls in front of the city of Heraklion compatible if there is no alternative trajectory, so that there can be road trips specifically without the payment of tolls for all these journeys? Thank you, Mr President, I have tried to be brief as far as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u4	The Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karayannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mamulaki, ladies and gentlemen, every time I have the opportunity and opportunity to present the work of our Government in the field of large infrastructures, our fundamental difference between the past, the present and the future proves to be a great thing. And I would not say that it is necessary to restore the reality that I hear many times distort, but above all - we need to respond here, and of course this promotes parliamentary control and we want it, but our job is not to cover the omissions of the previous governments and their failures - to promote the work that this government is doing. So the same thing is happening with the work of BOAK, where your government, Mr Mamulakis, has announced an intention, while our government is carrying out a great project. And we prove this step by step. At a rapid pace, we are already entering the final phase, whether it is the work of concessions, the work of the PPP or the public work. Allow me, at this point, to repeat some basic steps in what we have been doing all this time. So we unified the work from Kissamos to Sitia. We have entrusted more than sixteen studies, we have included - and this is the crucial, Mr Mamulakis, and we should all understand it - the bypasses of the major cities in this great project, we have finalised our financial model, and that is what is important, because at a point in your question I saw about some financial possibilities and I will return to this point during my secondary schooling, but above all we have secured much more resources from both the Recovery Fund and from the ESRB. The environmental conditions in the PPP part and you know very well that by the end of the year there will be binding bids from the tenderers, and you know - I think - better than anyone that in the next few days public works will also be auctioned. So, Mr. Mamulaki, in 2022 they'll open the first construction site to the BOAK. This is a reality that goes beyond any micro-political feasibility and we should all agree that major infrastructure projects, large public projects, must go outside the field of political controversy. One more thing. For me it was very positive - and I tell you above all as a Cretan to you - the positive opinion of the regional council. This shows something very important. It shows how they perceived this work and understood the remarks sent to us by the regional council and where we can change things, because our task is to listen to local communities. Where possible, however, where possible so that we do not blow the work out of the air. Let me say one last thing. Your perseverance and interest - and I truly congratulate you - is what you constantly ask questions about the BOAK, know that not only is it honoring you, but it shows something else. That the government is constantly moving on with this great work. Now, with regard to the main subject of your question, you know that the circumvention of the purely urban section of the city of Heraklion is not thirty two kilometres. Thirty-two kilometers is almost 25% of the concession project. So we should not talk about this part, and these tactics, I think, refer to other times. However, what I want to make clear to all the Cretans is that the decision we have taken is to examine the possibility of exempting the toll payment in front of the urban part of the city of Heraklion and that is of importance for the project to continue. This will be done in the second phase of the tender, just after the environmental conditions have been approved, but always by ensuring that we do not disrupt the financial model and not burden Greek taxpayers. Because you know very well that this project is being subsidised. Finally, one more comment, if you will allow me. I want it to be clear: Tolls will work at the BOAK after the construction of the project, and that is our concern. After the construction of the project, tolls are operated for all residents. I think that you, too, should now mention it to the public reason that your intention was also a toll for all residents and Cretans. After all, this proves and what Mr Spirtz has signed and what the agency said in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u6	You're welcome. Mr. Mamulaki, additionally, because time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. But I have to answer because I have heard some things that I think need to be answered. I have not returned to the past, Mr. Karayannis, Mr. Undersecretary. And I don't think it's any good for you to go back to the past for what's happened on the island. Forty years of structural uncertainty. Data were the island for the entire political system in the past, hence the uncertainty and historical unfinishedness. The biggest artery in our country that has not been constructed is BOAK. And I think that New Democracy and previous governments bear full responsibility for this. Now, in fact, SYRIZA's government has launched a competition. In fact, for two years Mr Karamanlis has been ironing in this Chamber on skiing and studies. And what finally happened? You yourself have universally followed the international open competitions that have been launched since 2018 by the previous government and are now being implemented. Besides, it's such a big project as you said, it doesn't fit colors and parties. It is of key importance that it moves forward, runs around and is eventually built. But now we're going to the key issues. Here on 20 September, Mr Karayannis, you answered a question for me. And yes, to say at this point that I will insist, because perseverance is a feather of success, and I must, representing the island, be able - and in my capacity as a political engineer - to strengthen and monitor it closely so that it can be constructed as it should be. For the toll complex I've told you before that there are Community directives, there are dictators that we could very well unload a toll section especially for the inhabitants of the island. Why? Because it's an island area. After all, it is no coincidence that projects of the NSRF that have been built in Cyprus, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, Magorca, Ibitha are not subject to to toll. It's no accident. Where no alternative scenario exists, island status shall be protected in a variety of ways, particularly at this point. Now, let's go a little bit to the parts that are important, the keys, which are the funding gap, the financial gap that we consider exists too. So you told us that for the Chania - Heraklion section to be implemented under a concession agreement costing EUR 1,200,000 - EUR 1,32 - will be financed by EUR 200 million from the Recovery Fund and EUR 600 million from the ESRB. Very nice. There is, however, a reasonable financial gap here, as you can see. Do you think that with the toll of EUR 0,063 per kilometre this financial gap will be covered? You know, it is of paramount importance that the project can be carried out in full. And where does this viability arise to fund the project? Because it's, I think, very, very critical. Now, I think that at this point I tried to explain to you. You said that around Heraklion the twenty - five kilometers are considered a large, cordless development. I would point out again: an integrated project which currently exists from the Linders to the Gruns is a thirty-two-kilometre belt built by the carpet, separating chests, gravel linings, deletion. The whole project has been built, except for sound and lighting which, as you know, is of minor budgetary value.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u8	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u9	So how can tolls be imposed in this 30-km zone, given that there have been funds invested by Greek taxpayers, the Cretans, on this issue? How can the concessionaire be fruited? And you know, it's a spatial site like that. I told you, he strangles Heraklion City. A civilian can't go south.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u10	Come on, Mr. Comrade. You've been eight minutes in total. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u11	So I close and focus on the question, the same thing that is clear: tolls are to be imposed and who will be tolled? And on this matter, when will the points you intend to put them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u12	Come on, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u13	Mr Mamulaki, during your dentext I saw that there were actually two pillars in your mind. One pillar is that there's a big funding gap and if the tolls manage to close it and if the tolls arrive to close this funding gap and the second one is if we finally put tolls. I think that these two thoughts conflict to some extent. Where tolls are to be spaced is another story we'll see later. That doesn't matter. I have answered you about the purely urban part of the city of Heraklion, that this will be done to get rid of it. We're looking into it and we're seeing it. But, indeed, there is a large funding gap and that is why the Greek public does it. There will also be shadow tolls to pay for the Greek public. In addition to what all users will pay, there will also be shadow tolls on the BOAK, this is known to everyone, as is available in other concession contracts. But let me tell you that there is no concession contract in our country, but anywhere in the world that has no toll or has a toll selectively: those from Upper Rahula are paying and those from Lower Rahula are not paying. That's not happening, Mr. Mamulaki. All residents will pay tolls, all visitors, because Crete needs this project. Tolls will come in after the project is finished and built.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u14	Without an alternative plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u15	We are talking about electronic tolls, about a proportionate charge, about a kilometre charge, and these tolls will be proud of the Cretans. And you proudly know why? Because the regional council is the only issue it has not raised. And to his credit Mr Arnautakis and the majority of the regional council have not put it. Now, I'd expect to hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u16	I'm sorry, Minister, the ICMs that are not out of Heraklion...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Mamulaki, before you spoke eight minutes and interrupt the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u18	Don't fake reality now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u19	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u20	Please, Mr. Mamulaki, you don't record, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u21	We take care of it. The whole project will have an ICM. You're a political engineer and you know it. Everywhere, we'll build the whole piece. The project will be unified. We have said it and said it before, and we will continue to talk about it in this way, Mr Mamulaki. But that's the reality. And the reality is, you handed over a pencil and we'll deliver you a big piece of work, ready. And at the inauguration, you'll come as an Opposition, so we can all inaugurate it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u22	Well, thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the fourth question by number 266-12-2021, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of ‘Reassessment of the criteria for the payment of single applications for aid (ESA) 2021’. Mr Simos Kedicoglou will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development. Mr. Booba, you have the floor. I would ask that the time be respected. I told you there was a difficult piece of legislation then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, good morning, and good week. It is a big issue that has arisen over the past few days, and particularly last month in terms of paying for the single national reserve national payment, with regard to the single application made by farmers, but also with regard to parcels in respect of owner-occupied parcels on the basis of the E9. According to what we are hearing from the too many farmers and farmers who are in an economic hardship and despair, is this demand also made through the Union of Serres Farmers, in what sense? There should be security controls and more time with regard to OPEKEPE, which is also the competent agency, in cooperation with the Independent Public Income Authority, AIA, as well as with regard to the E9, because there was this control which was carried out very quickly, so that the whole situation with the private agricultural parcels cannot be reassessed, because there should be at least one possibility of administrative action and there should be at least one possibility - in the form of introductory words - tolerance through the proposals of agricultural union, a great union such as the Serres Union, at least one difference in three parcels, to see where these mistakes arise. You realise that there is no room for farmers and farmers to take administrative action and to carry out a more effective control. This, of course, also concerns the ministerial decision that came out at the last minute. As far as the transfer of rights from the national reserve is concerned, let us see it in the second part, in my second part. But for these parcels on the basis of E9, that is to say, rural areas, there is no possibility of redefinition, because there are, as I have said, no safety controls. In other words, farmers are losing rights, as are farmers who lose their grassland rights, because pastures are shrinking. Yes, but it cannot be done at this time in October that farmers do not know what dawns them, which is the next day, while a procedure has been launched before months. In other words, we are notifying them at the last minute without giving them the possibility of making the relevant administrative acts for these parcels through the ownership certificate. You need to see this, listening to the agony of the livestock sector in the primary sector, because both farmers and farmers must have this possibility in terms of re-checking the parcels, because there is even a zero payment at a time difficult and because of oil for farmers, but also because of the other costs, in the case of agricultural products, but also of the energy crisis. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to thank you, too, for giving me the opportunity to reply and to clarify the need to amend the common ministerial decision, which attempts to restore a series of chronic distortions and circumventions in the way public land is distributed, always operating within the Community institutional framework and within the national choices made in previous years. The new CRL forms a fairer and more objective framework in the allocation of aid to farmers who are now starting their agricultural activity, a framework which, together with other interventions and controls, must meet and comply with the obligations set by the new CFP in each Member State of the European Union. The OHIM forecast benefits the consistent and productive young or new farmers starting their farming activity and is supported for this purpose in order to be sustainable, productive, competitive and to increase the size of their holding by exploiting Community resources. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food shall be closely associated with the needs of the livestock sector and shall take all necessary measures to ensure its viability. You know that we have had extensive dialogue with farmers and farmers and that we have adopted clarification decisions on the payments of OPECE. The OPEKEPE administrative action system opened on Monday, November 2, 2021, so that producers, through their advisers, of the Statement Reception Centres and others, can make corrective statements. In particular, with regard to the control of land, I would remind you that cross-checking of ownership had been announced by OPECE and had been announced by the Minister for Rural Development in plenary on 19 February 2021. In the first cross-check of OPECE with ADI, following the submission of the declarations, in a total of six and a half million agricultural parcel declarations at six million, eighty-six thousand, twenty-six hundred and twenty-one parcels, i.e. 98.3% of the country's agricultural parcels, the identification of the land was absolute and the payment of the 70% of the basic payment was made in full. Just one hundred and thirteen thousand seventy-nine parcels, i.e. 1,7% of the declared parcels, appeared to be a mismatch of ADI and OPEKEPE declarations, and these declarations were put into cross-checking. In conclusion, of the five hundred ninety-one thousand four hundred nine basic applications, the five hundred six hundred and seventy-seven beneficiaries - that is, the vast majority of the producers - who had properly submitted their application, were normally paid the 70% of the basic payment and will receive, as set out, the total amount in the December liquidation. In the sixty-three-sixteen-sixteen producers found a difference between ADI and OPEKEPE, applications were committed for cross-checking, after the completion of which all the amounts due with the clearance of December will be paid. Farmers who, for any reason, wish to change data on their applications in the context of correction of apparent errors shall submit changes to specific fields of the single payment application either through the Statement Receipt Centres that were originally addressed for registration, or directly to the OPECE Information System. As I said here on 2 November 2021, the implementation of administrative acts of single application for aid has been put into effect in accordance with the circular 'Preparation of apparent errors through administrative acts and the submission of late applications'. Also, with the number number. 69218 OPEKEPE document on the modification of the circular, amended the circular above in order to address the problems encountered by the crossings of the ATAKs. Thus, producers may make corrective statements relating to the following categories: First, a matching of ATAKs with a proper parcel. Second, change of ATAK. Third, change in ownership percentage per parcel. Fourthly, the introduction of the ATAK number to cover the declared area. That is why, on 17 November from the Stepping of the House, I urged farmers and farmers to make improvements. At the same time, OPEKEPE is making improvements in NATURA areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u27	Mr Minister, you say that there must certainly be a cross-check, that there must be a thorough check on the actual farmers and the real farmers. After all, we need to make a clean register, to know who is a farmer, who is a farmer. No one says that this required check, the cross-checking of data - and now digitised with the new OPEKEPE service - should be carried out with regard to the Statement Reception Centres, the single application for aid, but also to rights. However, it is enough - let us go to the other big issue - to overcome all bureaucratic obstacles and loopholes, so that in a reasonable period of time - farmers can pay for these declarations which are pending. There should be the necessary cross-checking of the elements you say, but there should be time to submit - as I have said in my prototype - administrative acts in order to correct any errors, any errors, any omissions - this discrepancy between the ADI and the OPEKEPE - so that there are no problems and that we can lay the right foundations so that the agri-food industry is not troubled. Let's go a little bit on the transfer of rights. While this process began for the national reserve procedure with regard to the rights of farmers and farmers, of course, at the last minute - that is now, on October 26, about two months ago - you say as a ministry, that the transfer of rights cannot be carried out because it is an act that is in breach of Union law, that the allocation of European funds cannot be made. Of course, the national reserve is in favour of young farmers or those who want to act in the countryside, whether agricultural or livestock. No one's realizing that. It is, in particular, for the new generations who want to invest in the countryside, in the primary sector, and we also need to help them as a state. But what's going on here? It comes out of a ministerial decision, which, Minister, has retroactive effect. And I ask: do farmers and farmers enjoy equality and equality when the state, the government tells them after eight, nine months, almost a year later, that this is an illegal energy? And you know, they have carried out a procedure in order to deal with all the procedure needed to enable them to transfer rights - as you want, and in previous years - and we suddenly tell them that there can be no transfer of rights. What does that mean? You understand that very well. It means that there is a decline in agricultural and livestock farms. They have made a different programming and at the last minute we tell them that there can be no transfer of rights from the national reserve. Another was programming, another was envisioned. Good, if it were an unlawful action - which should not be clearly unlawful and Union law should also apply to the agricultural livestock sector - we should notify them in time, because the transfer of rights, Minister, has taken place since 2013. Here there are circulars from the ministries and the earlier governments - including your government was in 2013 - which say that there can be a transfer of rights. According to the cooperatives and the Serres association, there is a proposal: to apply the KYA, but to allow people to plan in time, to know their farm and livestock exploitation from 1-1-2022. You can't tell them suddenly in March that: "You know what? You did what you did. The transfer of rights shall not apply.’ And go out of programming for rural and livestock farms for the transfer of rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u29	First of all, I would like to reiterate that the Minister for Rural Development announced the amendment in February and that, with the possibility of correcting it, it was given sufficient time. Now, in relation to the payment of the advance payment of the 2020 basic payment and your reference to reductions, as you have in your question, note that the amount of 2,5 % linear reduction in the value of the allowances for the needs of the national reserve has not been implemented in the payment of the advance payment. That reduction was applied to the repayment of December 2020. To meet the basic payment entitlement requirements from the national reserve to young farmers and farmers who are now starting their activities in the advance of the basic payment, a linear reduction in the value of all entitlements by 2.5% has been applied. The national ceilings are set out in Annex 3 to Regulation No 1307 of the European Parliament and of the Council and amended on an annual basis by Commission Implementing Regulations. For the year 2021, they were limited in relation to the respective limits of 2020. The number of applicants, the content of applications and the results of checks shall change the payment of applications from year to year. As far as the transfer of rights to a national reserve is concerned, we should be aware that in accordance with Articles 58, 60 and 63 of Regulation 1306 and Article 4 of Regulation 2988 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests, but also according to settled case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the purpose of the creation of the national reserve and the granting of basic payment entitlements is to strengthen the exercise of agricultural activity, and the Union rules cannot be relied upon as fraudulently or misused. Member States shall therefore have the obligation to take appropriate measures to ensure the proper functioning of the national reserve and in particular shall be obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure that the actual and legal forms of allocations of rights, transfers and payments are established, as well as to prevent and prosecute irregularities and abuses. Consequently, the granting of basic payment entitlements from the national reserve may be withdrawn and the amounts of aid paid and such entitlements may be sought in the event that it is established that the beneficiaries have artificially created the conditions for the acquisition of the rights or used a practice which constitutes an abuse of rights. This results from the application of Union legislation which is beyond national law. On that basis, in 2021 the transfer to third parties of national reserve rights for 2020 is a practice that is abusive to the rights granted to transferors and therefore an artificial treaty. Finally, it should be noted that proper implementation of Union and national legislation is a prerequisite for the influx of Union agricultural aid in our country, which is necessary to increase the competitiveness of Greek agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too, Minister. The next eighth is the eighth under number 276/13-12-2021, a topical question from the second parliamentary party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Standards in the process of adopting the Ministerial Decision adopting the management plan for the operation of the purse seine fishing gear to be dragged from the vessel". And this question will be answered by Mr Kedicoglou. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. In accordance with Euro Regulation 1967/2005 sliding gear shall be prohibited within three nautical miles of the coast. They shall, however, provide for a derogation and allow it if the catches do not exceed 10 % by weight of the catch and a management plan is needed. Therefore, in 2017 with a management plan granted by the European Union to Greece a derogation under the SYRIZA Government, with a monitoring plan up to March 2020. The exhibition and its conclusions, given by the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, ΕΚΕΘΕΘΕ, prove scientifically, documented that the operation of the vibzotrata in selected areas does not cause damage to fish stocks. And, of course, they also have other comments from their control. In fact, such permits to derogate from vegetarians operate in Italy, Spain, France, Croatia, but also in neighbouring countries outside the European Union, in Albania, Turkey, Egypt, Algeria. On the basis of the report by the New Democracy Government, the current EU Government submitted to the European Union in January 2021 its management plan to continue granting a derogation for the operation of the vivotra for a new three-year period from 2021 to 2023. The Directorate-General for Maritime and Fisheries Research of the European Union has given permission to proceed with a ministerial decision. You should have done it because the fishing season starts on 1 October until 31 March. In other words, these people lost the fishing season and were condemned by you to have no income, since you do not answer them, you do not go ahead with the ministerial decision. And it is not true that the vivotra has been banned after a derogation has been granted to a number of countries I mentioned. With regard to voluntary work, with a programme in October 2020, it does not work because the compensation is inconsistent and, on the other hand, in 2021 you applied for the derogation by submitting a management plan. Rightly, then, these people are in despair. So, with today's timely question, we ask and ask at the same time: why is the process of adopting a ministerial decision on the establishment of the management plan for purse seine fishing gear frozen? What measures will the government take to ensure that the management plan is implemented immediately and that the conditions and conditions laid down are complied with so that fishermen can survive and control, as was the case in the previous three years, the effects on the marine ecosystem?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype. It is a big issue and it concerns the fishermen of all the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, fishing with the seiner gear dragged by a vessel or a vintage trawl is regulated at national level by Royal Decree 817/1966. Presidential Decree 553/1979, as amended by Presidential Decree 669/1980, prohibits the issue of new fishing authorisations for the gear. In other words, since 1979, over forty years ago, the Greek state has decided not to issue any new fishing permits with this gear. In addition to this, fishing with the Vinzotra gear is also governed by the general provisions and principles of Regulation 1380 of the European Union on the Common Fisheries Policy and by the specific provisions of Regulation 1967/2006 on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the Mediterranean Sea. That is to say, the operation of this fishing gear is not allowed by the European Union and the activities of fishermen so far with that gear have been carried out either by testing or by way of a specific management plan, which ended in March 2020. In order to achieve sustainable fisheries in the Mediterranean, the Commission, initially by Regulation 1967, established a more stringent regulatory framework for the purpose of protecting biodiversity. In addition, Regulation 1380/2013 on the Common Fisheries Policy provides that Member States will have a preventive approach to fisheries management and it aims to ensure that the exploitation of marine living biological resources restores and maintains populations of fish species above levels that can ensure maximum sustainable yield. The Government within the framework of measures to protect the marine environment and with a high sense of social responsibility vis-à-vis Greek fishermen, owners of professional fishing vessels flying the purse seine gear, proposing the need to support the fishermen of the vizzotrata and due to the expiry of the management plan and its non-renewal, proceeded in September 2020 to the grant of a total of EUR 5,750,000 to fishermen for the withdrawal of the seine gear drawn up by a vessel, with the amount of the flat-rate de minimis aid amount to be fixed at EUR 25,000 per vessel, to the maximum authorised for fishing vessels authorised to fish with vegetarians even one of the years 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, or to EUR 20,000 per vessel for fishing vessels that had but did not implement the relevant authorisation. Beneficiaries were professional fishermen, shipowners carrying the seine gear throughout the territory, depending on their ownership rate and since the years mentioned above were active. They were given the opportunity to replace their tools with new tools. For example, remaining fishing vessels with the seine gear by the end of 2020 were only thirty-eight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u34	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u35	Minister, it is not scientific or legally substantiated what you say. You say that in 1979 it was decided not to issue any new authorizations. Indeed, the vincetras were ninety. Today it is a question of having a hundred and twenty left. Therefore, the old continued to exist. Now you're also "killing" them violently without even being interested in how these families will live. You say that the European Union is forbidden. I have before me the 1967/2005 regulation you invoke. Article 13, in fact, in my first speech, prohibits such sliding tools. However, the same article says - and I read it by the regulation -: 'In derogation from the first subparagraph, the use of drachmas is permitted within three nautical miles of the coast, irrespective of depth, provided that catches of species other than shellfish do not exceed 10% of the total live weight of the catch'. This is through the regulation you invoke. Secondly, you say that you are protecting sustainable biodiversity. The report by the PPE, of this research centre which is of high quality and is the only one we have, do you not accept it? What's he saying? It is through the report that you have accepted and tabled to the European Union to obtain new approval. He says: "The fishing over sea meadows of poseidonia is not allowed where the fish go and give birth. ‘A monitoring has been carried out through the satellite monitoring system of vessels for the recognition and control of fishing activities and positions. The fishing effort of the vivotra represents 1% of the total fishing effort of all gears and the main species fished is the marijuana. Its stocks are within secure biological limits and the rejected party represents a small percentage of about 1%.’ I read from the scientific documentation or why these scientists were all three years old and watched, went along with the fishermen in the veins. And where do they end up? They conclude and say: "We agree that a vignzotra management plan can be supported and can be fully documented". I'm saying a small summary of what you have tabled. But why do you force them to disappear and sentence them to a permanent lockdown? The prohibition of sewage will favour fish farms, these large monopolistic businesses which you also finance with millions and Lockdown to them you have also given money from the Recovery Fund you have and do not require any limitations and specific environmental plans and protests there are many such as the Mayor of Poros, etc. You want the generalization of aquaculture. And, of course, after the vegetarian trawlers, the seines, etc. So what we're saying is that businessmen - it doesn't surprise us - are funding them. For them it is all your politics and it is also proven in the case of a vinchotra. But fishermen too should draw their conclusions to join other farmers and farmers in order to overthrow this anti-fishing policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u37	First of all, a word about the fish farms. It's not all big business. In my special homeland, in Evia, they are small - I would say - businesses, local people who breathe in the local economy. In the case of vegetarian fishermen, it is also possible, apart from the aid, to operate with other gears, to be subsidised and licensed accordingly. In essence, in the context of the national management of marine resources and fish stocks, the adoption of preventive measures is, as I said before, a Union cheque and a national necessity. It is based on the protection and preservation of the marine ecosystem, which the Greek Government has set as a priority, and has decided not to continue with the derogations. It is a measure taken on the conservation of fishing capacity and the sustainability of our fishermen, at the same time, with the protection of the marine environment, the public interest and the future of the Greek seas and their productive wealth. Our fishermen who used this tool have known forty years that this tool would be abolished at some point. It should be clarified here that fishermen - and I say this to you - can continue to operate normally on fishing with the same vessel, but on other fishing gears for which either they hold a licence or they can be licensed. I believe, however, that, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out and as you have pointed out in your question quite rightly, the monitoring of the consequences of the marine ecosystem is a priority of both the European Union and the Government and I think all colleagues within this House who need to take care of the future. Fish stocks in the Greek seas have been reduced to historically low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. We move to the third question under number 726/29-102021 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The government is extinct the muscular crops, wealthy export industries of the country." Mr. Simos Kedicoglou will answer that question as well. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning and good week. Mr Secretary-General, this question was tabled on 29 October in the manner of the written question and it was unfortunately not answered by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. So the first question that is being asked is why we have not answered in writing and are now coming to the timely process and we have not received anything in writing, as we have received nothing in writing, as well as the mydo-cultures? And, unfortunately, I have received nothing from the government in response for about eighteen months. I would remind you that we have asked seven questions about the attached issue and to understand what the muscle farmers are literally pulling from your own government, I say that the questions were asked: 31-7-2020, 14-1-2021, 5-2021, 17-8-2021, 30-9-2021, 29-10-2021 and throughout this period at least three hundred export-related enterprises have only received promises, but nothing as a result. The mydo-growing sector, unfortunately, has been hit, firstly, by the pandemic and the great problem on the 2020 market and, secondly, by the extreme heat conditions due to the climate crisis in 2021. The main problem, however, is that it is literally affected because of the bias, hypocrisy, but also the analgesia - literally - of the Mitsotakis Government, which does not give them a single answer and obviously does not give them any support. Undersecretary, the Muscle Farmers - which 80% of exports are made by the Thermaic Gulf - are desperate because they do not have a serious man on the part of the government to sit down and talk about why you are mocking them. And you are mocking them as a government as well as the previous political leadership and today's political leadership, because in addition to last year's pandemic disaster, for which you did not help the industry, this year in the Thermaic Gulf, due to the extreme climatic conditions, the heat that we experienced, this year's production was destroyed, and also the gene of next year. The relevant ministers before all of this are exhausted to promises and particularly hypocritical ones. They started last year from the exhibition, where Mr Vorides had come. He met with them, with self-government officials, but ever since. All the ministers who went through your position also continued and, unfortunately, we learn that you, too, have not given them any answers. And I wonder why you didn't give them the answer in writing. I cannot understand why the Ministry is not addressing such a dynamic export industry - which takes no subsidy or any compensation - to give them a solution. Production has been destroyed. The offspring has been destroyed, and all you have to say to them is promises. It is an export sector that unfortunately supports - and you understand - productively and the neighbouring region. All local society and economy depend on how production goes. And now, for two years, nothing? Any conversations? Any prospects? What about next year's orb? So the questions are simple and we have put them to you in writing. What are you gonna do? In what way and with what resources will you compensate the musculoskeletal producers for the destruction? How will you proceed to arrangements for the extreme heat to enter into compensation conditions and how will you support the mydo-growing sector? I'll be back in my second place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr Colleague, first of all, in the short time I'm at the Ministry, I had at least three meetings with the muscular farmers and several more with representatives of local government. Now, on your questions, I would like to say to you: the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has been informed by both the local fishing services and the producers themselves that most of the unsavoury production of mussels and herbs, that is, the future production of 2022, has been destroyed due to the occurrence of an excessive amount of vegetarian and dramatic oxygen reduction, which has contributed to high temperatures at sea. In addition, according to aquaculture bodies, the situation in the crop area was already pending due to COVID, the pandemic that did not allow sales last year, in 2020, only at a small level, thus remaining in the facilities. It follows from the relevant document of the General Secretariat of Union Resources and Infrastructure of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food that, in accordance with the aid measures provided for in the ‘operational Fisheries and Sea Programme’ under Regulation 508/2014 on the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, in order to address the economic consequences of the pandemic, the European Commission, taking into account the particular pandemic conditions, has amended that Regulation in order to use those measures as tools to address the economic consequences of the fisheries and aquaculture sector. In particular, Article 55 for public health measures, which may support the provision of working capital and a compensation for aquaculture for the temporary suspension or reduction of production and sales or for additional storage costs between 1 February and 31 December 2020 as a consequence of the pandemic, under Article 55, has triggered ‘Action 2’ of measure 3.2.1 measures for public health and two calls have been issued, the call for the submission of applications for funding to be made under ‘Action 2’ of measure 3.2.1, with a total public expenditure of EUR 25 million and the call for applications to the same measure, at a total public cost of EUR 5 million. In addition to measure 3.2.11, it is noted that the industry was also able to obtain financing for private investments under measure 3.2.2. for productive investments in aquaculture. In this measure we have the call number 1405 on 26 September 2017, which has a budget of EUR 1,930,000, the number 1613 with a budget of EUR 965000 and the number 1597 under way. I'll say more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kedicoglou, you started by saying that you held many meetings during your presence in the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. You know, the meetings aren't coming out, and the meetings you've done so far, the muscular producers in their households, at home, can't go anything for two years. Mr. Kedicoglou, you referred to measure 3.2.11. Do you know who joined this measure? I shall therefore put forward, Mr President, because Mr Kedicoglou has just mentioned the table that he has received from the 25 million euros. Mr. Kedicoglou, will you find me in these mydocal farmers? I can find them for you. Do you know which companies they have taken from 2 million euros? Seventy operations have been taken. Muscle farmers are three hundred, at least, businesses, and if you find them in here five, it's a matter. We are talking about businesses, not small and medium-sized, not producers. Why do you come to this House and say such hypocritical? You don't think we're gonna find the chart of the operational program? Obviously, you are funding big aquaculture. Others. For your mucosa producers, I ask, Mr. Kedicoglou. Leave this hypocrisy, which continues by your government. Do you want to take them in turn? Mr Vorides first saw them, along with the regional executives of the New Democracy and self-government in September 2020. He promised them that by November the money would be in the State's General Accounting Office. Did you pass them, why couldn't I go that way, Mr. Kedicoglou? Why are you kidding them? Then we came here and asked a timely question, why didn't you answer in writing, Mr. Economou, your predecessor. Do you know what Mr. Economou told us? I've got them written somewhere. He told us that there would be a proposal which would examine the operational programme to ask the European Union to take a different measure, not what Mr Vorides said to them, but something else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you have it to testify to us? Because I know that Mr. Economou for his hypocritical duties has been placed in a superior position to pretend there as a Government spokesman. Now you're coming. Do you have any other hypocritical ability to show us? But here, we are talking about something specific and the Ministry of Finance comes and we are told that no extreme heat is foreseen as a cause of funding. You yourself just read a text that is also confirmed by the regional authorities, that is, the mussels and the fruit of next year have been killed. What are you waiting for? Will you not take any initiative to incorporate the extreme heat, for example climate conditions as a condition of compensation for the affected? Aren't you even going to do that? I honestly wonder why you're there, Minister. You're answering parliamentary control as if you were a journalist. There are specific questions here. We're not asking you if the heat was done. That's where we live and we know it. We're with the musculoskeletal producers. You're not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] But in particular, we ask: Mr. Vorides said about money in the General Accounting Office of the State. Where is he? Mr. Economou said a special measure in the operational programme. Where is he? Your government has then said that you will pay compensation. Where is he? Where's the area performance? Where is the subsidy for COVID losses?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u44	Come on, Mr Famele, let's run it a little 'cause we have the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u45	All right, Mr President, but here we are being mocked for a year and a half and mocked by muscular producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u46	No designations, no placements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u47	No, I say that it is a political mockery, Mr President, to have the musculoskeletal producers waiting for a year and a half, to announce measures that are not implemented and to tell us that Kedicoglou will put 25 million euros of which the big farms have taken. Is that why I ask you, Mr. Kedicoglou? We are talking about three hundred businesses that have several more workers behind who have not lived for a year and a half. And we're asking you to tell us if you're going to give aid because of COVID per acre. Will you give support per aquarium and musculoskeletal acres for the heat? Everything's been destroyed! I went to the crop. There's no more gene for next year. Has any of you been there to see what's going on? Only promises. Unfortunately, things have gone away and you have to tell us very specifically what you are going to do. Tell us directly what the subsidies will be because of COVID and what the subsidies will be because of the extremist heat - you have read it first - namely, per turn of reality that your services have assured you that it has been destroyed. It's all you can do today. No more promises and mocking, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I would like you to tell me, my dear fellow Member, if there are any measures that I have mentioned before, that have not been accepted. There are some conditions for the compensation to be available. Where the conditions were met, the aid was granted. Now let's take things in turn. Law 4797/2021 does not include in the theories the extreme environmental temperature rise, as is apparent from the relevant document of the Ministry of Finance you mentioned. For enterprises active in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, Regulation 1388 of the European Commission concerning the declaration of certain categories of aid in those sectors as being compatible with the internal market. In accordance with Article 3 of that Regulation, the heater is not included in the type of events that constitute a natural disaster and therefore neither an increase in water temperature. As environmental protection is the high priority of this government and Prime Minister in particular, I would refer you to another reply today to a question from my colleague on the necessary condoms that we are taking for the environment while at the same time ensuring the viability of our professionals and producers. We will make every effort to have an integrated environment protection framework within the European Union and measures to prevent and relieve climate change. This is an attempt in which I believe we can all be associated. And something more specific. Under Article 35 of Regulation No 508 of the European Union and measure 3.1.11 of the Solidarity Fund for adverse weather and environmental incidents of the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, fishermen and water farmers could be supported for weather and environmental damage. However, the activation of the measure depends on the existence and operation of a mutual fund, but it has not so far been done by the parties concerned. No mutual funds have been set up either by the fishermen or by the aquarium farmers in Circular 4370, which is your government. Nobody responded. We are again calling for the mutual fund to be established in order to be able to pay compensation from the ESDP to fishermen and water farmers for losses due to adverse weather phenomena or environmental incidents. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that in this difficult equation, because you see that Community is not accepted, that mutual assistance fund had not been established, that insurance had not been established, that we are looking for ways, because I agree with you that it is an important branch of our national economy, that we ensure their survival and their further development.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The third, with number 273/13-12-2021, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: "Reservation of the sports facilities of the National Sports Centre for Youth of Agios Cosmas" and the second with number 265/12-2021, the first cycle of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Sias Anagnostopoulou, on the subject: "The Observatory silence of the Ministry of Sports in the event of censorship of Christofor Zaralikos" to the Minister of Culture will not be discussed because of the humiliating MPs. The next to be discussed is the fifth under number 271/10-12-2021, a topical question by the Deputy of the Second Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Andros: an arbitrariness for the construction of a wind station". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is the fourth timely question I have to put before this Chamber, and unfortunately it seems that the government will continue to look the other way towards the crime that is being committed in Andros. On 14 December 2020, the Directorate-General for Public Property granted the right to use a hayal and continuing marine space in the vicinity of Corfu to build an industrial wind park at Frangaki. The space that you have given - and that is why I have called on you as the Ministry of Finance - is double 'Natura', that is to say it is protected by the European Union and by two corresponding directives. Following complaints by citizens about the many infringements, on 3 to 4 November the port administration made an autopsy and it was found that the quay under construction violated both the conditions of concession and the area built and the materials. In other words, while it should be a light construction with wood and natural materials, the whole beach was dug in tons of cement and cementstones and became a permanent construction. Based on your decision, there should be a rightful revocation of her when there is a violation. And yet, you do not proceed to the authentication act of its revocation, so that the company will continue its construction, the illegal, as was documented by the port office, and have at the moment transferred almost all the materials it needed. I want you to tell us why you broke the decision and the law and did not make a decision to withdraw the concession and what actions you have guaranteed and you will safeguard this public resource that is the Agialos, a very important beach on the island on which hundreds of businesses are dependent on their economic survival and public revenues for which you are responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, respect for all environmental conditions and rules in any activity is unnegotiable. The government has given practical examples of writing in this respect. Similar samples of writing have been given and will be given on the issue raised in your question and will be understood by my information and positioning. I must, however, see the whole history of this issue. By decision of the head of the Directorate-General for Public Property and Cosmetics of the Ministry of Finance was granted to the company "Greek Wind Power S.A." the right to use a saint and continuous marine space for the execution of the project "Manufacturing of wind power station 15MW in Frankaki of the Municipal Unit of Corfu, Municipality of Andros, Regional Unit of Cyclades, Region of the South Aegean". There is also a decision to approve environmental conditions for this project which is binding. Conditions have been laid down in this Decision to ensure the protection of the natural and anthropogenic environment. As you know, the Environment Inspectors and the competent agencies of the decentralised administrations and regions have responsibility for monitoring compliance with the approved environmental conditions for their work and activities. There were complaints on 27 August concerning this project concerning the non-legal use of the ground of installation and road access as provided for in the decision approving the environmental conditions. An on-the-spot check was carried out by officials from the decentralised Aegean Command, infringements were detected and, as we were informed, a sanctions procedure was in progress. In my dentistry, I will inform you of the actions of the competent residential service on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u54	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I do not understand why the Minister chose to speak for just a second and a half while while he had three, instead of presenting us with all the evidence to enable dialogue to take place. Obviously, he wants to quote them after I've finished my denture because he's afraid I can answer them. Because it is not justified otherwise, Minister. Why didn't you take all the time you had at your disposal to complete what you wanted to tell us? You haven't given us a single clue. Is this a parliamentary procedure? Is this thing allowed? You haven't given us a single clue. I would ask the President to give him the time he has not used to complete his reply. What do you want me to answer? Anything you said to me? Are you serious? But I'll tell you. Don't worry. What's going on in Frankie, with the distinctive name? The Government has so far put in place an airlock without any restriction which should be rejected in every way and in any way, whether it was actually applying the European Directive, for the proper assessment, but also for the protection of the NATURA regions. You have put an aiolic at the nest of the spiral, while a "LIFE" programme is being implemented to protect the spiral and has received complaints from your partners as a government in the program, because the Greek government is a partner in the Spinach Protection Programme. Of course, the existing edifice of the RES, which you have told us is infamous and you would change it, you haven't changed it. You are violating the terms of the existing spatial planning. You have received complaints about the political heritage, because it is a monument of civil heritage, protected by UNESCO, the dry stones of Andros. He has received complaints from the Hellenic Society of Environment and Culture and from the Association of Men of America, those who so much care for you, but when our relatives talk about their country, there is no question, others are priorities. You told us at the outset that the work could be done, and while it is the breeding period, because a director came out of the Ministry of the Environment and did the genetic modification to the sprinkler and said that other periods would be reproduced from what was reproduced, of course, on paper. People were intimidated by fines for COVID when they went to observe the work and told them that they were harassing workers and that is why they were fined by COVID! Road opening for the construction of a windy without a building permit, although there was no building permit, construction of huge roads along and wide to pass a weight of eighty tons to Steno Fragaki without a building permit, without a safety distance between wind turbines and the OTA road network. Construction of the pier at Stenos Kotsios at the wrong point than it had been spaced - and not wrong - illegally elsewhere than it had been planted with materials that violate all licenses. It is your self-evident obligation to withdraw this license, to restore the landscape. And you tell us what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Colleague, you will listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u57	Let's talk about it. Don't tell me now that I'm not gonna be able to answer. What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u58	You won't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u59	Don't have a dialogue. You will now answer, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u60	Have the works continued? Because of your delay, have the wind turbines arrived?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Comrade, you will listen to me first, and we will see if you need to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, as always, you are in a hurry. As I said before, in my dentext I will inform you of the development of this particular case and of the actions of the relevant property agency. Following a signal from the Port Authority of Andros, which informed of arbitrary interventions in the Aegean Sea and the marine area in that area, the Property Office of Cyclades I sent the relevant information on complaints at the General Directorate of Public Property and Cosmopolitan Areas on November 22nd. At the same time, complaints and petitions from residents and institutions in the region were submitted to the same Directorate-General. The General Directorate of Public Property and Cosmopolitan Property directly and specifically on November 30th instructed the Cyclades I Land Administration to proceed with the immediate execution of autopsy and to take all the measures provided for in the law. It was further noted that if a question arises of revocation of the relevant concession decision, the required autopsy should be accompanied by a recommendation from the above-mentioned real estate service. In fact, Cyclades I Land Office sent its autopsy and control report on this case to the Directorate-General for Public Property and Cosmetics on 10 December. As you know, in order to withdraw a concession decision and to take parallel measures to protect the common area, the breach of the conditions of the concession, which is reflected in a technical audit report drawn up following an on-the-spot autopsy, should be established. And that's what happened. Directly, on 14 December, four days later, the Directorate-General for Public Property and Commonwealth informed in writing that all the measures provided for in the legislation in force will be taken to safeguard the public interest in the region. In particular, it informed the Commission that it was going to withdraw the concession decision. As you can see, Mr Colleagues, all the necessary steps have therefore been taken to ensure that legality is fully respected. Thank you. You're just in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u65	You're in a hurry, partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u66	Two months later!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u67	The dates don't say two months later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u68	On November 3rd...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u69	Dates are specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u70	You don't sound. Please. Mr. Veyropoulos, as you know as an experienced parliamentarian, there is no tritology...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u71	You just didn't like it. You were expecting another answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u72	No tertiary measures are envisaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u73	The revocation will take place...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr Vésyropoulos, there is no tertiary point or the President-in-Office's interruption. You are a noble man. Ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the honourable Members with the competent ministers, the sixth question will not be discussed with the sixth question, number 275/13-12-2021, with the second question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Communist Party, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Education and Religion, on the subject: 'The Government is violating the needs of school nurses', the ninth question with number 281/13-12-2021, the second question of the President of Athens B2', Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arceni to the Minister for Finance, on the subject: 'The Government infringes the decisions of the European Court of Justice against the cleanlinesss staff at the Ministry of Finance after twenty years of work', the tenth question with number 277/13-12-2021, the second question of the Parliamentary of the Communist Party to the Communist Party's Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance's second question. We are now entering the first with number 278/13-12-2021, a topical question by MP B1'North Athens Sector of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Acts of minors - Extended Juvenile Crime in and Out of School'. The Minister of Citizen Protection will answer Mr. Takis Theodorikos. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, thank you very much for being here in parliamentary control, your availability to answer Members' questions. I would like to raise an important issue, a social issue which, unfortunately, has been shaking up lately. These are repeated violent behaviors and criminal acts by gangs of minors. Frequent arrests of students with participation in such gangs, violent clashes, robberies, even involvement in drug trafficking confirm the exacerbation of the phenomenon, and that reasonably causes great concern not only to parents, such as me, I have two teenage boys, but throughout society. And I must tell you, Minister, that in my visits to police stations in the North, which is the region I am elected, it has been confirmed in the discussions I have had with their officials and the people who work there and provide their services with the exacerbation of the phenomenon. Suffice it to say that in 2021, two hundred and eighteen minors were beaten and two hundred eleven were robbed by members of such groups who have gang behaviors and are unfortunately made up of young children. And all these phenomena aren't far from us, they're near us, they're in the squares, on the streets where our children have fun, they meet their friends and they spend their hours of schiol. Twenty-five gangs are operating today in Attica and because you know your own constituency in the South of Athens, I am sure you have a picture of these behaviours and phenomena there too. Finally, with regard to the quarantine situation imposed on Greek society by the pandemic, I must tell you that at that time we had an increase of 10% in violent behaviour and 30% in teen abuse, compared to 2019. The question, Minister, is: How does your ministry see the development of this phenomenon and what does it intend to do, what measures does it plan to deal with, recognizing that it is not just a matter of your own ministry but also the responsibility of other ministries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. Mr President, thank you for the question, which I find to be of great interest because, without any doubt, there is no future in the place if young people do not ensure that they are developed in a proper environment with the right means to be successful people in their lives and, of course, to offer the basic good of security. I believe that this is a very complicated matter. The invasion of minors, many times school pupils, is certainly linked to too many factors. So dealing with the problem should be linked to the use of all factors. I believe that a very big role is played by the family, by friends, by school, teachers and by a child's relationship with teachers and teachers. A major role has been played by the very important development of the Internet in terms of children. Many times infraction is associated with integration into fanatic activities, sports activities not in a healthy sense but with the concept of hooliganism obviously. We therefore have a complex problem to deal with. With regard to the extent of the problem, I would like to add to the right information you mentioned, Mr Kumucaco, that in 2019, we had a thousand two hundred sixty-one offenders, minors. In 2020, we had a thousand three hundred seventy. In 2021, in the first two quarters, we have eight hundred seventeen, and I would like to inform the National Representation that the basic offences for which the violation has developed relate to a vast degree of robbery, theft, drugs and, as you mentioned, cases of beating, but above all the first two and three, while the increase is due to the arrests of foreign young people, minors. As far as the Greek Police are concerned, there are two sub-directions in GAAP and Thessaloniki that deal specifically with the issue, as it is a matter of priority for us, in our policy, to address the infrastability of minors. There are all over Greece offices dealing with the violation of minors and the central logic that we have and on which we train our policemen and ask them to act on this basis, is the logic - with regard to actions within the school - of a mild policing exclusively in cooperation with parents and the educational community and with the fact that, dear fellow Members, when you talk about infringing young children, there should always be the logic and perspective of the second chance. One cannot crush a child 15, sixteen, seventeen, even for wrongdoing too seriously, there must be a second chance. So the police are in constant collaboration with self-government and the school community on issues relating to violence within the school. The bullying, unfortunately, is developed, takes various forms. Here I believe the burden should fall into the educational community. The teacher, the teacher and the parent honestly have to deal with this issue, and the police should intervene in such situations only in extreme cases, because otherwise I don't think we can get results. I don't have any more time. I may then say two more things. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u79	Minister, thank you very much for the answer. I am pleased to note that the analysis of the phenomenon is complete because, as you said, it is complex. The Internet plays a no-assisting role in these phenomena of the violent behavior of minors and involvement in theft, robbery. As far as the participation of foreigners is concerned, in fact, of the elements I have, are increased, but not only foreigners, and these phenomena, in particular, appear to occur more frequently in areas of Athens that are close to metro and electric train stations, because it allows for cheap and easy, mass movement of these groups. It is very right and I am pleased to hear that there is a conscience among the officials of the Greek Police that it is a very delicate case to arrest a young man 15 years old for an act that is, for example, a removal of a mobile phone, but which is criminally robbery and blackmailing the criminal record, the lives of these children are actually being destroyed. That is why a very careful approach is needed, as you have rightly said here also the participation of the educational community and, above all, of the family is of fundamental importance. On the second opportunity, yes, a second opportunity must be given, but the phenomenon must also be addressed. That balance is what needs to be sought, and I hope that we will achieve it. The phenomenon is largely imported from other countries, but it is a real, living and very worrying reality in our homeland. And the question, Minister - and this will be my final question - is how we, as an expression of public concern and of public policies, can help Members personally in the work of the police force, in the work of the academic community, of schools, in order to deal with this phenomenon in a timely manner because, indeed, it is a source of great concern. And the first thing to do is raise awareness in schools, update. There also there to coexist with the officials of the Greek Police gives a sense of the complexity and seriousness of the phenomenon. Schools need to be informed about this in order to protect them accordingly and to protect society. We do not want young children who are unhappy to lose their lives, as we do not want children who have suffered bullying, violence and unacceptable criminal behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u81	What I would like to add is that I consider the role of social media to be very crucial, as today's young children think that they are, in particular, communicating among themselves through these social media. Here there is a side of the police which is due by the Prosecutor of an Electronic Crime in some cases where obvious violations are apparent to monitor and intervene in any case and prevent it from doing so. The second thing I would like to stress is that in all cases of gang complexes or in any case groupings of young children - because the word 'gangs' is sometimes literal, but usually involves an exaggeration when we talk about such situations in these ages - the Greek Police have intervened, the guilty and the others have been identified. But I am coming back and I find what you have said very positive, Mr Kumucako, when you asked the question how all of us can help to deal with this issue. In my humble opinion, through its emergence and through a systematic dialogue that must take place in front of the young children and with their participation. For me it was very useful to undertake dialogue initiatives at dead time, at any time and at any time, and not on the occasion of an event and an incident, which may have extinguished passions and atmosphere. There could be a debate on this phenomenon involving MPs, teachers, parents and children, and children who have been victims and children who have been "reactive" or without introductory perpetrators. I think it is better to look at the problem in the face and discuss its characteristics and ways of dealing with it than to go back and act exclusively with police. In such events, the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the Greek Police are prepared to participate. Because we have a police that works to be friendly with society, works to be friendly with young people, to be very friendly with minors, and at the same time, of course, it must be effective against crime and infractionality, because this is its mission. So we are at the disposal of these kinds of initiatives, which I believe can help positively to tackle the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the second question with number 268/9-12-2021, on the second question from the Eastern Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzis, on "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID-19 from complying with the social distance from uninvasive police." And in this timely question Mr Theodorikos will answer. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. In consultation with the Minister, the question was tabled about a month ago, just over a month ago, and in this one month, incidentally, the police gaps were also revealed, despite the Minister's announcements. Yesterday, for example, by Western Attica policemen who spoke of fake patrols, monkey patrols, and the poor finds of the operation in West Athens, where we have the rain of balls, but also of course of the fact that the government is playing with the ultimate proof of the lies about the ITH, about where the Lytra - Tsiodra study was delivered. But, Minister, about a month ago, when the question had been tabled, just before the Polytechnic celebration, the deaths were sixteen thousand eighty-eighteen and nineteen thousand ninety-one. And in this climate and despite the three ends of the pandemic by the Prime Minister, we have had a very large number of many governments' mouths that we have many policemen who are even involved in closed-site checks on whether citizens are vaccinated or not. It should be noted that you, too, can understand the danger to the health of police officers and the danger to the health of the citizens that these people control. So we ask why this is the purpose of the question, which is, in the end, the number of uninformed policemen, how many have been ill, how many have died and what measures have you taken to ensure that the intransigent police officers, when exercising their powers, in respect of compliance with the rules and measures of social dismissal, do not come into contact with the citizens, in other words not to participate in the checks, so that public health and the health of the citizens themselves are not threatened. And, of course, we are also asking what kind of circulars the Ministry has sent to carry out these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u85	Indeed, the question was tabled a long time ago and we agreed to go further back for my own sake, that is true, Mr President. Mr President, I believe that the issue we are discussing today is two ways of discussing it. One is the way to use for party, selfish purposes the trial that Greece is going through, as all mankind is going through because of the coronary pandemic, and the other is to agree to see in the face what the problems are and what the best we can do together to deal with them. The firm will of the Government and of me personally - especially since I have undertaken the difficult and responsible tasks of the Minister for Civil Protection - is the second way. We see the problems directly. We're not putting anything in the drawer, under the rug, and we're going to deal with it. What's the truth? The truth is that the ELAS two years now has a crucial role to play in dealing with pandemic. More than 90% of the checks are carried out, in fact it is the critical control mechanism and it has done a great job that has kept social cohesion. Should citizens under the control of the men and women of the EUPM feel safe? They must feel absolutely safe. People are trained, they do their job in an extremely effective way, in civilized and human behaviour and at the same time in strict application of laws. What is it that every cop involved in the workshops is required to carry out checks? And that's because that's not words, it's action. She wears the mask, wears gloves, avoids contact and come very close to people. I would also like, Mr Spirtzi, to highlight something. Police are required to run two tests a week. The citizen is therefore aware that he does not have the slightest risk from the police, man or woman who comes to make a check on the COVID measures. That is what I want it to be quite clear and I believe that we all have to agree on it if we are moving on the basis of common sense. What are the number of vaccinations in the police? You should take into account the following fact that the recording of ELAS Headquarters considers people fully vaccinated, since the second vaccination has taken place and has been fourteen days. So the evidence I will tell you contains that they arrive up to 14 days ago and because it is evidence of 17 December, practically what you heard was completed on 2 December, to mediate these 14 days. So then the percentage of fully vaccinated plus the hospitals is around 81%. There is, however, a number of things that have obviously been vaccinated these fourteen days, whether it is a second vaccination or a first vaccination, and of course, vaccinations have also started for the third vaccine, which we are all obliged to do to be much safer and to be regarded as good. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u86	Without them, how many are there, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u87	Take the floor and ask me not to talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. Minister, I think we both have shown at least that we can reach agreement, and when you were at the Ministry of the Interior and today, but do not use this thing and our good will and good will to put us in a so-called opposition to the opposition. Mr Petssas here - I have the papers - says 'a huge issue to the police, the extension of compulsoryity'. And Mr. Petchas didn't just say so. Mr Georgiadis briefly later said that they are thirty to forty thousand policemen uninvasive and - and we do not want to say this - in critical services they show thousands of police officers with coronary symptoms that they were going to their offices. There are two circulars related to the measures taken by all public officials throughout the public sector. But here the police are in direct contact with the citizens. And for both the Polytechnic, where you moved four thousand policemen, as well as for Alexi Gregopoulou's anniversary, these people were all together, as you know, in enclosed spaces or in cages of MAT and all the rest. So what we ask is how many have been vaccinated, not how many have been ill. If you tell us that half the people have been ill since 86%, in fact, there is a huge issue about the health of police officers with the responsibility of the government and, of course, about the health of the citizens, when the ministry has not predicted that a police officer who has not been vaccinated will not go to carry out checks. I want you to understand a little that the citizen who has been vaccinated and is in a closed space and accepts a state check on whether he has taken a vaccine or not, cannot be made by an invasive public official, whether a police officer or another. The people are indignant. I think there is nothing difficult in the context of the conciliation that you have foreseen procedures so that inconvenienceless police officers do not participate in these checks. For example, the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police may not ask every day for those who have not taken a vaccine or for those who have had two rapid tests a week and every day these people are in contact with hundreds of thousands of people all over Greece and have a city all dead, twenty thousand dead and over a million cases, nor can police be covered how they operate in their control through circulars that are the general circulars for all public services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, then, to say your intentions, firstly, if you are not the invaders, not the patients - who are after a while and the antibodies they have, than the doctors have said - but if the vaccinated policemen and only will do checks, if you are going to send Circulars to protect both the citizens and the police in how these people are going to work. In fact, we want to know what the number of unmistakable police officers, nurses, how many have been sick, how many have died.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u90	Good, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u91	I said that in my first speech, Mr President. I'm sorry to insist, but it's because I didn't get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u93	You have received an answer, Mr Colleague, which I shall repeat, so that I can give you a full explanation, because I do not want to have any questions at all. First of all, I repeat that there is no security problem for citizens who are subject to Greek police control. That is what I want it to be quite clear, and I think that everything else does not contribute positively, especially at the moment, especially this week where I want to inform the House that tens of thousands of Greek policemen and women will be on the streets - and this week and next week, Mr President - in order to cope with a difficult two-way mission, on the one hand, the order and security for all citizens, as they are holiday days and there are travel, there are too many people on the streets and, at the same time, the strict implementation of measures to tackle the horn pandemic. I would also like to call on the citizens to help the Greek police to do their job properly, because by doing their job properly, it is good for society as a whole, for the health and safety of all citizens. Mr Colleague, I have no idea exactly what your proposal is, what an alternative you have to what we are doing. I'll give you the evidence so there's no question about it. On 2 December, therefore, - on 2 December, I would stress this - Mr Spirtzi, 75% of the police officers were fully vaccinated. I repeat, on 2 December. So it's the evidence, because the Headquarters wants fourteen days to see him fully vaccinated, and about 6% of all the police force, the fifty-sixteen thousand men and women have been ill. Also, in the last month it has been vaccinated with a dose of 3.5%, which actually comes to be summed up. There's also a sufficient number that's vaccinated every day. We are making a tough fight to convince men and women, young and older policemen to be vaccinated. The percentage in reality is more than the average of Greek society. I repeat that we prefer this method and not any other method, because it gives rise to no problem at all, and one must take into account the peculiarity of the police work. It's a very, very difficult job, which anyone can't do, nor can we hire anyone in any way to the police. So these people are there to do the job. We work with them. We urge them and help them to be vaccinated. We have achieved a very high rate of vaccination, and those who are not vaccinated, as are the others who are vaccinated, are necessarily and very strictly observing safety measures to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the discussion of the fourth under No 279/13-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Eresos Lesvos: Building the unique natural beauty of the village". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is an issue that has upset public opinion on the island of Lesvos. We have a unique beauty beach, but also because you represent the Ministry of the Environment, an area "NATURA", the launch point of a river that is an island wetland, very important. However, it is now building up. We have the VEK 36/14-2-2012, which determines the limits of cavalry. And - if possible! - as a hayaloo boundary, it puts the limit of the summer wave, i.e. the beach. Ayalu boundary is the sea. There is no, that is, cavalry. The cavalry has turned into a plot. Just to say, sand is the plot. Where a citizen is going to lie in the summer is the plot. These are incomprehensible things. The Municipality of Lesvos appealed to the Council of State, the decision was avenged, but pending. However, it is unbelievable and yet, it has come out of building permits for this plot, which is the beach. And we ask you: Is it possible that HYDRO, which you supervise, will draw up a building permit when a decision is pending at St. T. E., and when the municipality itself has given an opinion on the withdrawal of the pre-authorisation of the building licence? Also: What actions will you take to ban the issue of building permits on the beach until the issue is finalized in St.T. Uh, and, of course, to restore the editing of the sanctuary on the basis of the laws?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u96	Minister, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, first of all, I have collected all the information from the relevant departments and I have the chart you mention on this site - apart from a plan, of course, and outside of a settlement - regarding the beach line and the line of agialou, old and new. And here it seems clear and may be at your disposal, that this property is not included in a line of cavalry, to be also common space, as you mentioned. In fact, since many procedures have been followed on this and there have been many court rulings, the last judgment and final decision of the Ice Arena, the number 786/1998 renders this property as private property to the individual, who later issued the building permit. This decision was accepted by the administration and, in a question to the administration and the property department, the property and the issue of the location of the altar old and new, it is stated that this issue has expired, is not within the saint and of course on the beach. As far as the question of the extent of the property and the building permit is concerned, I would like to say that we are talking here about an area outside the plan and outside the building. There are the presidential decrees that apply to such areas. The property service shall describe precisely the size and location of the remaining final and area on which they have been calculated, in accordance with the conditions of construction, the coverage and the square structure. In fact, after many questions, the relevant building service is stated to have been lawfully issued. There is no reason to have any further control over property rights. That's introductory. If anyone thinks there are still problems after what I told you before, that the decision of the Ice Arena has in fact recognised the private and the competent property agency, which is the essentially competent authority to define a sayalou and beach, says that it is not on the cavalry and on the beach, I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u98	Mr Arsenis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I've visited the site. I don't know what Marios Ice decided, I don't disagree about any property issues, but you know, the beach is a beach! I do not rely on my opinion, this is where the municipality has appealed to the Council of State, obviously, on matters which are inconsistent with the Constitution that the Marios Ice is not considering. The case was dealt with on 10 June 2020. We expect the decision to be announced. Is it possible for the building service to draw up building permits while pending the decision of the Council of State? Also, the municipality has given its opinion twice on the withdrawal of the pre-authorisation of this designation of aegialus in the area of Aphedouli. This, the building service, how does it get past it? We have a very important place. We have the beach of a major tourist destination on the island of Lesvos. Ierissos for those who know it is an autonomous destination, far from the rest and very important to the economy of the island. At the same time, however, it is very important for biodiversity, environmental protection and the fight against climate collapse. These local wetlands linking the journey of migratory birds are a step, a station and cannot be jeopardised. It is not possible to jeopardize the yacht. It is not possible to put public goods at risk and it is also an economic risk, beyond the environment. So I think you should do the self-evident and necessary to ensure that no construction is carried out, at least until the Council of State has taken a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u100	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u101	Mr Colleague, the Marble Ice to which I have referred, but you have referred and you are the highest decision-making body. Of course the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. The three highest institutions in terms of justice, but also the final judgments of judges on various issues. As I told you, one is about the definition of a sayalou and a beach, because this property had come out of the line of agialou. Of course, there is the beach line, the zone to be expropriated, but it is outside the line of Aegialou and the part that is outside the beach line, this remaining area has been taken into account in the issue of building permits and in the calculation of the conditions of construction, coverage and construction of the property for housing. As you say, however, the evidence available to us does not allow us to stop a process that has been finalised in relation to the delimitation of the hayalus, the recognition of ownership which the public itself accepted is not public space, but private and therefore, if matters are dealt with legally beyond what I said, the procedure will evolve and any decision will be made. However, in the name of whichever reference or objection at all, we cannot stop with the elements that we have when the public itself with its relevant services says that he is not a saint and that he is the private owner. These are, in response to what I have listened to with caution and after studying the whole dossier and I repeat that I have both the layout diagrams and the decisions of the Ice Bay and the whole development, because it has not arrived at the Arena Ice, it has been finalised. So all the decisions that have been accepted by the administration. After that, we cannot do anything further on the subject that you have raised. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too, Minister. We now move on to the seventh under No 280/13-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Expansion of the settlement boundaries of the village of Great Papigo, in Zagori, Epirus". Mr. Tagaras will answer that again. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a similar subject as the previous one. And here, of course, Mr Tagaras, as in the previous one, the Ice Bay case was not about delimiting the hayal that was later made in 2012, and you described a decision that had been preceded, because if I'm not mistaken, you said '98. Now, for Zagori. We have a municipal council that comes and says that others are the boundaries of the settlement than those set by the corresponding '90s FEK'. And not only does it decide while it is not allowed, but it passes it on to the maps of the Land register, with various permits to build buildings at the core of the North Pindos National Park. I mean, to say it differently, in the Pindus national park, as the world remembers. At the moment in the nucleus buildings are being built on points that are not allowed, because a municipality made a decision on its own, without respecting the procedures. Procedures are that border changes require special presidential decrees and that the municipality alone cannot decide to do so. The impact is dramatic, not only for the core of the Vikos National Park, the Northern Pindos Park, the exclusion zone, that is, the absolute protection zone of the Northern Pindos Park. At the same time it is dramatic for both nature and economy, because it offends this place's attempt to integrate Zagorochoria into the UNESCO monuments. So, of course, I would like to ask you: How will you stop this double risk and for joining UNESCO from undermining the environment and what measures will you take to ensure the legality and control of the actions of the Municipality of Zagori so as to prevent these illegal activities from having a dramatic impact on the natural environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u104	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u105	Mr Colleague, I would like to say that, as you have said, the village of Great Popigou has been traditionally characterised as a settlement in the pre-existing 1923 by the name of 269/79 on the designation of traditional settlements. Subsequently, it was amended by the '85 Decree and has been classified as a place of special natural beauty. Following the designation of the settlement, its demarcation in 1990 was followed by the nomadic decision, as in almost throughout the country, for settlements under two thousand inhabitants, as is, of course, Papigo and not by a presidential decree. It is true that decision-making to set limits on prefectures is an issue which in the Council of State has a problem and there have been problems where the Council of State has been appeal and decision and which are powerless. But until it occurs after an appeal and there is a decision, they are strong, they are executed and they produce legal effects. In no case shall there be any limits on settlement under legal certainty except by a Presidential Decree. You referred before the municipal council decision on the settlement limits in relation to the property concerned. I would like to say to you that the answers we have from both the relevant Building Agency and the mayor and from the region advocate at the same point in time, in the same decision that the property, the plot on which the building you are referring is located within the limits of the settlement. This is in line with the decision of the prefect, the one I referred to before. Therefore, the decision has been given. Now, if the city council wants to change the boundaries, and if it has taken or will take decisions to amend the limits, it can be done, but it will be done by means of a presidential decree, as institutionally envisaged, to ensure that this process is brought to an end. But until then, according to all the services, it appears and is recorded that the land property concerned is in a settlement and that the provisions laid down in the respective decree have been applied. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Arseni, please for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much. Minister, I understand that you do not know the region and the information you have given is completely wrong. Look, the boundaries of the settlement were the cemetery. It's very comparative. We're not talking about a map we don't know where it is. It was the cemetery. This area that is being built at the moment is beyond the cemetery, it is a breach of the boundaries of the settlement. They gave you the wrong information. Please do not support the wrong information in here, because you are also hurting you personally. So we have that expanded from the municipality. As you know very well, it has made a decision to extend, redefinite the municipality's limits. These are the limits declared in the register and on that basis the decision came to light. I do not want to read to you the building permit, which is based on the limits of the Land register, as declared by the municipality. I have all this evidence and I want to submit it to the Minutes. But at the moment the municipality has unlawfully extended the boundaries of the settlement beyond this particular point, because the cemetery has not been transferred. And in this space, we're not talking about one that's being built. There's too much that starts and is sold to build in the North Pindos Park core in the blockade zone, just to say it again, so people can hear it in the Viku National Park, as we all remember it. Instead of defending, in other words, illegal here, you're going to defend the law. Come and defend the environment. That is your institutional competence. Your institutional competence here is to protect the protected areas, let alone the core of the national parks. So you didn't sit down before you came here to see the map? The map has compared points. He didn't expect there to be geodetomy and GPS. There's the cemetery site. You know, many boundaries of settlement have a problem, but not when they have specific built buildings as boundaries. That's where we know what the limit was. They're not lines anywhere, they're line over the cemetery. It's not a road that's moving. How suddenly was this line found enclosing another such settlement outside the cemetery? What happened? Has the law changed by magic? It didn't change. Where's the presidential decree? I urge you not to continue to support things here which are manifestly illegal. If need be, we'll go into details. If we see that, in fact, you keep supporting them, we will also go into details of why the government might want to support this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u108	Good. Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I do not express my personal views and I certainly do not know the limits of each settlement throughout Greece. However, there are responsible departments which are also responsible for monitoring and sanctions. I mentioned to you before that the Building Agency, which is responsible for issuing a building licence, has found and replied in writing that the property in question is within the limits of a settlement, and even that limit coincides with the limit of the National Park, is a common limit of the Papigos settlement and the National Park. So says the relevant Building Agency, which has both the responsibility and the institutional role to control and answer. That's one. As far as the municipality and the mayor are concerned, I would like to tell you that the Mayor of the Municipality of Zagorios Georgios Sukouvelos has replied that the construction work of a two-storey building is not carried out in an area outside the boundaries of the Papigos settlement, as they have been established, but within the limits of this, according to the said attached document of the Municipality of Ioannina, which also has the administrative support of the municipality. It completes the following: No division has occurred in the local society, as is wrongly mentioned in the timely question. Local society, the President of the Local Community of Papigou and, above all, the Municipality of Zagorio are the permanent and timeless guardians of the protection of the structured and natural environment of the Municipality of Zagorio and municipal communities. In addition to the fact that the natural and structured environment remains unchanged throughout the centuries, the Greek state has chosen to put it under the protection of UNESCO, which we support and support, because it is an area of global cultural heritage. We are fully in agreement on this and we are helping and we will do what we have to do in this direction. So what I referred to is not personal views. And I could not have any personal views, when the demarcations are specific, they are institutionalised and they do not advocate what you have referred to, my dear fellow Member. After that, I can't do anything else on my part. If the municipality wants to change or think there's something wrong, there's institutional potential to run them to see if anything more is needed. Of what I have for my part, however, I cannot give any other answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. The second question under number 728/29-10-2021 will be debated now under the question of the circle of petitions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In a dead end, the construction services of the country, engineers and citizens will be a dead end." And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Nicos Tagaras. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Again, good week. Good morning, too, Mr. Undersecretary. May I wish him good holidays and health for all of us now. Mr Secretary, the question was put on 29 October. It concerns a crucial issue, the operation of construction services throughout Greece. Unfortunately, I have to note that it has not been answered, as it was owed, in writing. We are concerned about why you do not answer these questions in writing. We would like you to give us some answers, because, as far as I can see, we have nine extensions of administrative support from the municipalities that have not established a building service, while the Ministry of the Environment and also the Ministry of Interior, since June 2020, you have amended Article 97A four times for the construction of services. The last amendment, which also came at night, without consultation, without publicity, came to cover a legislative gap which had been left for the first days of October, where there was no institutional framework. There was a serious problem. Half the local municipalities could not issue a building permit. But there were no other services, such as autopsies, the lifting of static risk, the compliance of arbitrary ones. In any event, you have given a three-month extension, until 1-1-2022, subject to the adoption of a critical presidential decree setting out the criteria for staffing the construction services. So the first issue that arises is where this presidential decree, which in your government has been pending for the last two, two and a half years. You know, on the other hand, that all over the country municipalities are facing a serious problem of subsidizing construction services. There is literally a fragility of building services - not just stability, not just retirement - and as a result, the staff of construction services and all technical services are very rapidly reduced, while in the last three years your Government has ignored the Building Observatorys, a major innovation in 4495/2017, of the SYRIZA Government, which had planned, approved recruitments of two hundred and fifty engineers. You have stopped them, however, with the result that the monitoring of arbitrarities is stopped and there is a serious problem, which extends up to the amendments of your Members to remain finally determined arbitrarily on the beach and the saint. That is where the environmentally friendly government has arrived! Because, as you can see, this creates legal insecurity and lack of functionality in a critical sector and in the economy and the environment, but also in the quality of life and because you have serious problems, now, accumulated in urban planning - I must say that it is not the only area that, unfortunately, your Government creates only problems, because, throughout society and the economy, the problems are growing from the deadlocks and injustice of the Mitsotakis Government - the question is simple for you: How will you tackle the issue first, the lack of a presidential decree, secondly the staff, thirdly the lack of Building Observatorys and fourthly, the real control of the environment and the planning that gives the real development...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u113	...and not with wild west logics. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, first of all, I also have good holidays, good year, health and all the good things for you and all the colleagues. I should like to apologize for the delay personally because a personal serious problem has deprived me of the possibility of responding to the time that I should have and which I think was in normal circumstances, to your questions. This is about the delay in answering the question. As far as the substance is concerned, construction services do have problems. And the reasons why they have problems are that the number of staff in the HFO has been reduced either because there have been pensions that have not been covered by new recruitments, or because there have been movements to the municipality. As you know, the construction services come under the municipalities and therefore within the Ministry of Interior. It does not belong to us in command. They are supervised by an institutional framework, but administratively supervised by the municipalities and thus by the Ministry of the Interior. There were, therefore, movements from building services to the technical services of the municipalities themselves. On the other hand, according to the institutional framework for years, which refers to the staffing of each municipality, to each municipality having its own building service, it seems to be a matter, Mr Colleague, because of the hundreds of sixty - almost half of them - who are left to create and serve their own technical service only six have done so. I say this to see what it is to blame, but if it is necessary - and our assessment is that it is necessary to redefine who, how and what controls what we are discussing. In fact, there is a debate in progress - and we are at the end - between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior - which, I say again, supervises, through the municipalities, the Greek authorities - but also with the President of the CEDEFOP and the Technical Chamber, in order to find a way out of the direct coverage not only of the existing HYDOM - because there are problems in the workings - but much more of those that are not covered and have not created their own building service. In the areas discussed, trans-national cooperation at regional level was also involved. If you want my personal opinion, it is wrong that every municipality should have its own building service. It was and remains - this is under way - at regional level a building service, except for the islands that are specific to islands and large urban centres. But it is a matter that exists. I would like to tell you that, in consultation and cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, the recruitment process for 2020-2021 has been initiated for a total of seventy-seven municipalities, a six hundred-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Of these five hundred ninety were sent to the AACC for the issue of the relevant notice, which is expected to be published within the next few days. Similarly, with a circular of the Ministry of Interior, the positions adopted for 2022 were announced: three hundred ninety-three mechanical positions for a hundred ninety-one municipalities. Total recruitments are nine hundred and eighty-three, about 23% increase compared with existing and number-operated ones. The strains available: four thousand three hundred eighteen. Of course, there is also the possibility of mobility in order to be able to complete the staff or even by a fixed-term private staff. I am saying these, because until there is an intake that will fully cover the need, there should also be a response to the solution to the problem. As far as the observatory is concerned, but also what happens with the control of arbitrary matters and not just because of the time that I will complete my answer to all your questions, my dear colleague, in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, my dear colleague, the question of the delay was not about your presence here in the process of the time-consuming but about the written answer to the October question. I was not referring to anything else concerning your personal presence. Secondly, I am particularly surprised, Mr President, that the Secretary-General's first response includes recruitment notices that I heard at the end of his position on programming 2020 - 2021, but which have not yet come out of the ADP, that is to say, 2022 and are to be recruited in 2023. So the description of the problem is that the next government will solve the problem, because in this governance you seem to have not been able to make any notices or recruitment yet. But it has been two and a half years, Minister, and you said in particular that you are waiting for the ADP notices because it is the 2020 programming approval. Ask me May to eat a clover! But here we have a failure, a delay, a ball of responsibility, and in any case we have legal uncertainty, a halt to the development of urban planning, and certainly a risk to the public interest, but also to the structured and natural environment. A survey that has been carried out at the Central Association of Municipalities, which you obviously have in mind, shows that only half of the municipalities have a building service, but also of them, ninety-six out of sixty-eight, some 60%, operate with fewer staff, that is to say, well under the needs of the prefecture. There are many basic skills missing. And you yourself said here in Parliament, if I am not mistaken, in October, two or three months ago, that there is indeed a lack of staff. And, indeed, if I am not mistaken at least a hundred of the sixty operating, there is a delay in issuing licences greater than seventy-five days and in many cases more than a hundred days. So there you say there is a lack of staff and delays. On the one hand, you recognize that the system cannot function because of a lack of staff and on the other hand you have not yet told us anything first, for the Presidential Decree you have said nothing about what should apply in a week's working days, ten days in terms of the staffing of the HNMs. So your Ministry is not ready to respond to your amendment that gave a three-month extension to get the presidential decree out and have staff criteria? One of the prisoners. Secondly, I am learning from reports and I have heard it in your first place that you are considering operating at regional level in towns. It's your personal viewpoint, and I've seen it from news reports too. And you even think about the central agency in the Ministry of the Environment. Here, in other words, we see, Mr President, because, in the regional county, I say this, the Ministry is thinking of abolishing any concept of regional organization, removing jurisdiction from self-government and the Rethymno Prefecture, for example, from building permits only to Rethymnon and not to go out into the seats of the municipalities. But I remind you, Mr Tagaras, because you have a past self-government, that the reason why many have advocated the reform of KALIKARATIS was that there should be added value to the municipalities, the largest of the communities, to at least have construction services, technical services, financial services. And now you're thinking that the municipalities don't even have a building service. And all of this while you're conferring responsibilities on the Ministry of Development. It is unacceptable that you have given the Ministry of Development the power to issue building permits. As also, I would like you to tell me where this Central Building Agency is at the end of the day, which you would take to the Ministry of the Environment to issue building permits, obviously, for the ministers' friends. Because that is unacceptable, as you have seen. And we also see in the legislation that comes tomorrow that you give responsibilities to the Technical Chamber to improve the urban environment and public space. In other words, Mr Tagaras, to understand, you have given the Technical Chamber the arbitrary, EVOMO, the local town plans, the projects for the Recovery Fund, and now you will also provide the urban space projects. This isn't a chamber, this is a supermarket. The Technical Chamber is the technical adviser of the state and you have made it the joy of the "blue children", that is to say it is weak for the state and outside to have conditions of wild West for the powerful. But so there is no rule of law, there is no growth, Mr Tagaras. You have not answered the President's Decree. You have not responded to the building service in each municipality and now move away from the municipalities for them to the ministries. [[The President-in-Office occupies the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis.]] What we are unfortunately seeing, Mr Tagaras, is to weaken the Ministry of the Environment, always to settle the friends and friends of the system, but not to protect the structure or design. So I ask you again: How will the municipality building services work as of 1 January? When do you plan to take out the presidential decree? Are you going to staff with permanent staff immediately? And finally, will the Central Building Agency and regional observers finally be put into operation? I am waiting for your second response to the regional observers, because you left me unresolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u119	Mr Colleague, you know that licences are now issued electronically. This system is in the Technical Chamber, but its ownership is in the Ministry of the Environment. And it is precisely because it has all the tools and means that the Chamber of Technical Chambers can immediately operate such systems - and this is at least in the last ten or ten years with all the laws of arbitrary declaration that have been developed in the decades since - it has been granted the possibility of controlling and ownership of the Ministry of the Environment, to develop these systems, for building services, for building permits, for arbitrary and electronic identity. All the things that are evolving will enter a single electronic system and the aim is not to remain in the Technical Chamber, but because of the inability of the Ministry of the Environment, as I mentioned before, to prepare with the help of the Technical Chamber of Greece. This helps us to see wider procedures that do not cause problems, speed up answers and licenses. You mentioned before in the ‘Each municipality and an HYDOM’. I have, as you rightly said, passed from self-government and I know well, but as an engineer I am well aware, because my profession is a civil engineer and the public were, my dear fellow Member, self-government to all. And just because I know, I know that everything is done electronically and it doesn't matter anymore. There is neither a need to move nor to respond to save forces, to be effective and to be able to create mechanisms that can fill the gap that really exists. Because we know that recruitment, my dear colleague, is not only about it, but everything is being delayed a long time. We can therefore have a combination of forces at regional level, other than the island country, which has its specific characteristics and the large urban centres. There should be some additives there. This can be done without even moving from those who exist to those who do not lose their place. The systems just because they're electronic, they're smart and they can automatically collect all existing staff to an ATM per regional unit so they can meet all needs. Besides, you know that as things stand today, the crucial is pre-approval, because the approval is given under the responsibility of an engineer, namely the control of titles in substance for its ownership topographical diagram and the building diagram that is mandatory for category 1 and 2, for category 3, is optional. In Category 3, of course, a certificate of construction may be required. And I'm saying that for legal certainty. And to take a step further, our goal is to codify urban legislation and this, as you know, is evolving and ending. Now there are diffuse legislation and, of course, uncertainties, insurance and safeguards with regard to the existing ones. So when the codification that will have a single, integrated, secure and guaranteed institutional framework is completed, then we must change further what is currently happening both on speed and on security issues. You referred to the CYDOM. Indeed, I will tell you that even the equipment is ready right now at the Ministry of the Environment and we expect it to be staffed. Joint ministerial or ministerial decisions are being developed on what exactly the CYDOM will do, what directly can it issue licences, what authorisations from the regional DSOs can be accepted, and what reasons can there be for a single integrated interconnection of all the construction services and the CYDM so that we can be effective in what we are discussing. As far as the Observatorys are concerned, we are in the process of reviewing and committees have been set up so that we can make them faster, more efficiently, functionally, without many structures, which in the end are not working. And something about issues relating to arbitrary control. I would like to tell you that the arbitrary check will be passed on to the building auditors. So in the sense that controls a new building, it also controls the arbitrary ones. But here, it must have a precise framework for how it controls, what it controls and what it makes as a decision. It will soon be ready for the whole plan, I say, for the building inspectors to take over and control the arbitrary, through a standardised procedure. What building services will do is to view and define the fines that will result from them. That is what you have raised in relation to the issues you have raised. And, of course, with regard to complaints - you will soon see the framework that we are preparing for, and for that reason - who, can submit the complaint, who controls, who pays and what procedure. That's what I wanted to say in relation to your questions. We will soon have much more effective to add to your question. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u120	We shall proceed to the last two topical questions concerning the Ministry of Health, which will be answered by Minister Thanos Pilaris. The first question under number 267/12-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Nikolakopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The operation of hospital units in Elias”. Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the nursing units of Elias are facing serious problems, as are several other nursing units in different parts of the country. This is an old problem, because over the past decades, the phenomenon has been seen leaving doctors, retiring without being replaced by other doctors. Clearly, the economic crisis has intensified this problem, clearly, and there is a great deal of escape from scientific capital, medical personnel abroad, but it has led to serious shortages of medical staff. Minister, Elias is dealing with another matter. He's dealing with a multitude of nursing units. I'll tell you that Elijah has three hospitals, three nursing units, three towers, Amaliad and Crestena, six health centers and forty tours. It is very important that a large number of nursing and administrative personnel were recruited. It is positive that it has been created in the Nursing Unit of the COVID Tower. There have been several doctors' notices, but they have not had satisfactory results, resulting in serious deficiencies in specialties such as the pathologist, which is a very critical speciality. The phenomenon has even been observed for medical practitioners to move from nursing units of other prefectures to cover positions in Elias Prefecture, since Elias Prefecture stayed with a pathologist. The phenomenon has also been observed for doctors to move from one nursing unit to another, resulting in further inconvenience in local communities. After that, Mr Minister, you ask: How do you intend to deal with the problem of the lack of medical staff in Elijah's health structures, especially after the last statement which has not had satisfactory results? If there is planning to reorganise - reorganise the health map in Elias, and if this restructuring provides for the abolition of certain structures and what is the timetable for these actions. Because the public health system Elias was also called upon to face a pandemic with all these diseases of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u123	Mr Colleague, indeed, there is a very important issue raised by you concerning Elias, and I must say that it is one of the areas that we have been particularly concerned with, as in other areas, especially island Greece. While it is phenomena that we are basically facing in island Greece in terms of staffing difficulty, for some reason they are also happening in Elias. For this reason, a great effort was made to cover positions for the Tower Hospital with transfers made, and with the specialties that have been transferred from other hospitals even to a private doctor. However, from the information contained, the data is a little bit too much as you described it in the direction that, in the first 2020 notice of the six posts, there were three barren ones, and in the third 2020 notice, and the three positions were considered infertile and in the first of 2021, in reality more than 50%, the positions were infertile and were not met, as was the case with the last one that came out on 7 September, when two atrocities have already been decided, while all the others are in progress, which means that we do not know what the process of filling will be. In Amaliada, there is even greater reluctance to permanent staff. For the needs of primary care, health centers and doctors, there is a cover for the places and even contributed very much to the part of the vaccination programme. But this county actually shows that there is a great reluctance to cover permanent posts. It is a wider debate that we have opened, Mr Colleague, as you know in the sub-committee of the regions, so that we now have a new picture of both the health map and the needs, but above all the incentives that should be made to medical and nursing staff, with reference to the areas in which a reluctance is presented to them. I would like to say to you - and I will make a detailed reference to my dentistry - that the 6th RU already because there is a great deal of problem with the staffing of the specific hospitals of Elijah, it has proposed that we convert the designation of Elijah into a barren and problematic category I instead of the second category that has been classified, as well as the classification of the hospitals of Elijah from 2 to 3 and the status of newspapers. Therefore, the HR itself has pointed out the problem and considers it a solution that should be classified as a barren and problematic category I area instead of a II area. In my dentistry, I will tell you exactly what our thoughts are on both the barren and the sanitary map you have asked for with regard to the structures that are still in place. I shall refer to my dentistry precisely.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a very good thing that the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs notes this peculiarity which exists in the Elijah Prefecture with constant atrocious notices that lead essentially to a hypotension and problematic or even dangerous function over the prefecture’s nursing units. It is good, of course, that the positions are covered so far satisfactorily, but something much more and more permanent has to be done. It is good, then, that - and I think it is necessary - in addition to the motives which, in fact, you are working on and you want to give doctors to enter the public health system. There are, however, some hospitals that need more and I think the 6th RU - and I think it is necessary to do so - is that the nursing units of Elijah should become abundant type I as well as changing the on-call status and going to category III. Besides, it has been found that the notices were also used by some doctors to apply to central hospitals and thus leave Elias’ nursing homes and go to other hospitals. So I think it is necessary, if you like, to convert Elijah into a barren type I area and I think that this will largely address the problem of the lack of interest in the staffing of nursing units. On the second part of the questions, Minister, I will insist on one issue. This multidimensional division has also created problems within local communities. I think we should make it clear, because you know, on the sensitive health issue, many are trying to get political benefits and connect reorganisation, redesign, with structure closures and on this they are investing in a political destructive game. So a clear answer is needed if this redesign is to proceed with what timetable, and if this redesign provides for the abolition of nursing units in such a way that the citizens in particular understand. The pandemic has shown us, Minister, that all structures and infrastructure are needed. So I think we should give a clear answer to that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u126	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u127	Now I will say to both issues which are essential. First of all, with regard to health and nursing structures, in fact, the example of Elijah shows issues that exist in other parts of the country, where many times when there is a multi-dimensional unit, in fact we cannot afford to provide health to the citizens as much as we would like. I am clear from this step, Mr Nikolakopoulou, because I see that a lot is written, that there is no question of the nursing structures being closed down. In the treatment on the health map, yes, we are considering how the services will be reordered, so that we have a more centralized staffing of the large hospital unit and all the weight down there, but in no case are we talking about the deterioration of the other structures. But the essence is that the other structures are able to have such a part that these structures work in the best possible way. Just how this reorder will be done will be the subject of the drafting of the new health charter and therefore all the proposals will be heard. I know there are proposals from local society too. We want to give you our design. The planning is that central structures will be strengthened as hospital structures. From there on, the other structures will have an autonomous role, and they will not lose their self-interest. However, they will have the powers they need on the basis of the work they will be entrusted with. That is why we think that, at the completion of the health charter and also for the region, the reorientation will be carried out in such a way that the public good of health is best provided and there will be no fear in the local communities that they will suddenly find themselves with less health coverage than they have. On the contrary, the reorder will help to know every structure what can offer and offer it the best possible to enable the people of Elijah, as in other areas where we will have the health map, to know that they have a better service provided. This timetable that we want to set, because of the pandemic we do not know whether it is possible to implement, but we hope that in the first quarter or - at most - in the first half of 2022 we will have a full picture of all the actions that we want to do. I have to tell you that Elijah, because of this multitude, will be one of the first priorities for the redeployment of services to see how they will work. So it will be at the beginning of the plan that we are going to implement. In the second part of the abundant areas you say in category I, I cannot commit from this Stepma is precisely because it is combined with the sanitary map; but I must tell you as Minister that the problems that I have seen in Elia have not been seen in other parts of mainland Greece. There are also other areas, but Elijah is giving me particular impression, and I therefore believe that it has the basis of the health region's argument that the incentives that will be given may not be sufficient and we should also consider the issue of barren. So within this period of time I tell you where we will have the health map, there will also be a clear answer. But Elias is one of the areas that may indeed not be enough, so we will consider it with great interest. If necessary, we will be ready in the context of integration and the health map.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the last question. The fifth question will be discussed under No 272/10-12-2021 in the second cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Let explanations be given for the non-intensively intensified, about the "skis" in the management of the waiting list and the criteria for prioritising imports into ICUs". Here, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this debate has come very dramatic and painful at this time in public speech. I believe that the apparent health deficiency of the health system to respond to increased pressure from the fourth epidemic wave has led to an evolving health tragedy, and I think it is an extreme expression of it that there are dozens of intact patients daily out of intensive care unit. This was supposed to be the "red" line in the management and all the measures taken were to withstand the health system and support decently those patients who get coronary disease. This'red' line has been broken for too long. It was violated both in the second and third epidemic waves and, of course, in a very tragic way at this time. The government has a rhetoric that it is doing everything in its power and that the opposition is destroying and is against anyone who raises issues, namely that it could be managed in another way and shared the burden of the incidents of COVID and of the non-SHS in the private sector and in the military hospitals and, above all, that it should be managed in a different way so that it is more transparent, more reliable and that there is a climate of confidence in society that people are prioritised on the basis of criteria purely medical and that there is no way of circumventing the series. So the government does not respond to this need. There is a huge criminal political responsibility. The Tsiodra - Lytra study has shown that the Prime Minister was also systematically lying, saying that there is no difference in the mortality between people who are imprisoned inside and outside the ICU and on the other hand, for the second time he fell into the same sliding by saying that he has not received such a study from the state's incumbent scientific counselor. I think, therefore, that society, not opposition, requires clear explanations and clear answers. What exactly is the picture? What are the, really, functional ICU beds today in the health system? What is the number of deaths of intubated people outside of the ICU? And, above all, in order to avoid the slightest shadow in management, what exactly are the criteria of priority? Is it the age? Is this the intubation time? Is that the gravity of the incident? Are there any other accompanying symptoms? Is this the patient's life expectancy and recovery? All this must be quite clear, in order to convince society, the citizen and the relatives of people who are struggling every day, that the best possible management is done and that the state respects health workers but respects, above all, the need for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u130	Here, Minister, you have the floor, with the appropriate tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u131	Minister, I really think that this matter has been brought up in a completely wrong way and, unfortunately, it has tried to create shadows in an area in which I think that not only is there no shadow but you, Minister, are better aware of how all these processes are. So by addressing and answering your second question of timely question, it is very clear that it is a gross falsehood to say that patients are being treated selectively in ICU beds or, much worse, that there are closed ICU beds that are not working and that we are keeping them closed in order to manage incidents if and if necessary. I come to answer one of the questions you ask. Firstly, you know very well, Mr Xanthi, because you are one of those who dealt with Coron, you are one of the ministers who have contributed to the EKAB's electronic platform - we have left the manuscript system that was in place - that the electronic system has specific features. There is a posting of the incident by the physician who has the intubated patient - when we say in this particular case that he is an intubated person, we mean outside of the ICU and there is no ICU in this hospital - the uploaded incidents are visible to all the ICUs in the country, all the ICUs in the country see the incidents that have been posted. The doctor of the unit who has a bed ICU declares preparedness for the incident and often there is contact with that doctor who has made the post. It follows that the preparedness is approved, so a card is made to the EKAB to perform the process. If someone comes into this electronic system and says that any violation takes place, does not blame any political leader, blames all these people who are involved, who are two intensive doctors and the EAW, and so it is vulgar and insulting. And to those who sign up for VIP beds kept closed, I will come here, Mr Xanthi, as Minister, to answer - to others who have asked this question - that we cannot tolerate insulting the medical and nursing staff of the country. Access to the platform has all doctors who have codes. So all the doctors see what I'm telling you. There is therefore absolutely no priority, and the only thing that exists - and they have been mentioned here - is the five elements exactly as they had been taken out of the EAW. With these five data we start and say: first category heavy patients, second category patients with less chance of rehabilitation, third category patients with organ dysfunction who need intensive monitoring, fourth category patients with significantly less chance of rehabilitation and, unfortunately, patients who are unfortunately in the condition in which they are found, if there is no bed IF are considered to be no unexpected. Nor are the criteria as various people say, nor do you get to know one another. It is clearly of the possibility and the possibility that a person is judged at that time to have the best possible restoration. And depending on the need on the platform with purely medical criteria, the choice is made. And you know much better than I do that there are cases where they cannot be intersected at that time, even though they fulfil the conditions because the patient in this particular case is not stable and there is a risk from being transferred, so it is carried out when the physician himself judges it. But let me say what's important and I'll come to the numbers you're asking for. I give you data for the last four months, as the EKP has given me, that is to say, when it says that we are at the most heavy intensity of the National Health System, along with both COVID and non COVID incidents: the average non-ATO stay is between a few hours and two and a half days. It is good that there was not one minute but at the peak of the pandemic of the last four months the average waiting is a few hours to two and a half days. Surely if we look at individual incidents there will be more days and incidents that are served immediately. But I am giving you the average, to see how the platform works and how it is currently fully served by our fellow people who need an intensive treatment unit. With regard to the operation of the ICU beds - and I conclude, I will say the rest in my dentistry - I will say at the moment with the Ministry's BI that operates in and the private clinics. It is completely unfair that is being criticised for private clinics, there can be criticism of the simple beds and of the cases of COVID or non COVID and whether we should have taken more or less beds in the IF beds. However, the whole IF beds that are free of charge in the private sector are on the platform. It's a thousand three hundred and twenty-eight. The BI as well as you know it is updated and it is dynamic. There may be closed ICU beds sometime, so it is updated and these ICU beds removed. There may be a delay, and there are misinterpretations from some who think that closed IF beds are being kept. Bi is the most reliable element we have as a ministry. That's what you used. And from there on, there's an analysis in every hospital how it works. However, there are cases - it has also happened in the past - which, due to a lack of staff and transport, do not work for some IF beds, so they are not declared, and that is why there is a slight variation in the number. Whether there are empty IF beds, while they are intubated outside IF beds, this depends on where the IF bed is. When Crete did not have any pressure, it obviously had empty beds, but it could not be transported by a patient from Drama to Crete because it might have been more dangerous for the patient and obviously has something to do with the rhythm that IF beds are empty either because, unfortunately, our fellow people are losing their lives or because they are diluted and exiting the bed IF and the time that needs to be examined. So that's what we have. We've got the evidence per hospital. It's a dynamic process, but it's time to stay outside on the average that the EKRD gives us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u133	Minister, the issues are two. One is the capacity of the system, i.e. its capacity to support tubeds, and this depends on the aid made in the previous period, which has proved to be inadequate and, secondly, on the synergy with other structures of the private sector and the Armed Forces. There's nothing happened. The third wave attempted to make some use of these structures. At this time, for example, it could have Henry Dunan, which has forty intensive beds, exploited to the full. We had proposed from the previous phase that CIVID be a hospital alone, like the 424 in Thessaloniki and that they be two major reference hospitals along with the "Salvation" in the care of COVID in the country and that the health system be decompressed. It was your choice not to involve the private sector in the COVID hospitality. This is perfectly understandable and clear, because you have found them with clinical authorities and said that they will only welcome non-COVID incidents and some small and medium-sized clinics, and indeed by sorting, that is, people who are in the process of rehabilitation. To say that the private sector has no other available beds as well is misleading, because the subject is a single speed today the public and private health system? The private sector continues to function normally, to put its surgery on the service of its clientele and if it has a surplus of bed it has on the EAW platform. It's a different matter. When we have war and battle, we recruit all forces, we put a single speed into the system, we better share the volume and pressure to withstand the health system and its people and avoid the drama of the intangibles. You didn't do it and you have a huge responsibility for it. Secondly, the "skies" for management, in my view, are important and remain. Mostly your arguments are degraded in specific cases of brands that were found very easily in an intensive bed. So there's a situation. It must be tightened up and it must be quite clear that they are the specific criteria that are respected. It is not true that doctors throughout the country have a picture of what is happening on the EEA platform that we did. Doctors and managers of treatment units inform the platform when a blank bed arises, but who decides the order in which this bed will be covered is the exclusive and central responsibility of the EMCDDA - EMCDDA. So there is a signal to the world because the world is skeptical, society is tired, society has a displeasure about the failure to manage which it pays painfully and requires transparency. We have the most opaque - and I say this sincerely - management of the health section of the pandemic throughout Europe. There is no public data available, no EGE information accessible, we are trying to figure out exactly what is going on and get it out of public positions. For everything, there is a veil of opacity and mystery so that the government can then "cook" and claim it is all well burned. In my view, with this line, with the moral "debt" which the Prime Minister personally suffered the day before yesterday in this case of the Lyra-Tsiorda study, with the attitude you are holding towards the staff of the HSH who is being prosecuted and shown...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u134	But don't ask the question now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. In my opinion, you are not helping in the necessary climate of confidence that is crucial to overcoming a public health crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u136	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u137	Minister, I understand your embarrassment that you want to support a question that has been asked by your colleagues in the SYRIZA, and it is a long way from what you ask yourself in this question, because you know much better than I, having made a minister and a doctor, that what you are complaining may not have the participation of doctors. You know the platform you built. You guys made it, you said it was done. Shouldn't the hospital reception doctor who'll be in touch with the incident and talk about agreeing to put it or not? Can ICU beds be kept closed and a hospital doesn't know? Aren't nurses and doctors working there not going to know that in this hospital on the order of someone who's being held in closed IF beds? You know that all of this is lame and that's why you're trying to make your criticisms where there's a basis to discuss, that's not to talk about unreasonable and silly things that offend doctors and nurses. You're talking about names of incidents. I would specifically like the facts to be said. What's this particular incident? Because I've heard of two incidents and it's insulting to talk about it in here either the one man who lost his life or the other man who was transferred from Agrinio. I respect these people. Do you want me to tell you the name of the doctor who made the reception of the incident from Agrinio and what has he written in public? Wouldn't that be insulting? Wouldn't it be vulgar if we went into these procedures? I looked into the incident you're talking about with the metropolitan, and I ask you this. There were reports of two people from Agrini and one person could not be transported and was transferred after forty-eight hours that were available to transport. But imagine, Minister, what if we start from this step by saying who accepted and invited him to see if he had been correctly or wrongly accepted and to raise this in a political debate. Impossible outside ICUs. I told you the other day. In fact, Mr. Paulakis was lured because he recognized that there were seventy-eight patients outside of the ICU and were on your service. There's always been that problem. In the pandemic there'll be more tension. What did we do? The five hundred and seventy-seven ICU beds were made by a thousand three hundred thirty reported here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u138	This conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u139	We had this conversation, but you say what you did. And I'm telling you that waiting time is between a few hours and two and a half days. I don't think you had any different numbers without a pandemic when you were with four hundred and thirty-eight IF beds that, under Mr. Polakis' responsibility, were not covered with staff at the time they had to. These were, therefore, time-consuming problems that we need to see. And because you're rejoining the study that you say, even though the answers were given, I brought you two further studies of Mr. Lytra and Mr. Chiorda for your day as Minister and Mr. Polakis, mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u140	What are they saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u141	I have them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u142	An arithmetic given!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u143	Let me tell you the arithmetic given. Four hundred and thirty-four cases, of which there was a record of deaths at ninety-six, 46%. That's what the study does. Look at it. This is the case for the study of 27 October 2016. I've filed it, Minister! So there are two studies that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u144	Does he have a rate of deteriorating death?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Xanthos, what are you doing now? You don't record anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u146	It says that the delay in introduction into ICU was a risk factor and, respectively, that the intubated had a lower effect of 2.6%. But what I'm telling you is that this was obviously the case in the pandemic as much as it would be the aid, precisely because it's a pandemic. However, presenting a situation where it was a PTH system ideal and coming up with a government and could not manage it, on the contrary, the system of PTHs had a serious problem, we had much less than they were, there were studies that indicated this issue and we came back and we were making an increase in beds that were obviously the possibilities of the system, not because of logistics - that is the easy part of the equation - but as to the presence of medical and nursing staff, which is not currently specifically in pandemic conditions. I'll be done. With regard to the private ITH beds, we have said this again, all the empty private ITH beds in total - in Athens, which you say there was no delay in surgery, because Athens was fortunately not pressed as much as it was expected to be pressed by the fourth wave, so neither the public sector was pressed more, pressed, but pressed reasonedly, controlled, nor the private sector - was able to serve a lot of people from all over the region. The whole of Thessaloniki was subsidence and it was logical because the intensity was again too great for the private sector's ITH beds as a whole, not for COVID incidents, for non COVID and we managed to make beds and so there are those numbers you see. Because these figures include private sector IF beds. And I'm closing up on the evidence you're saying, Mr. Xanthi. And Mr. Lytras in his study from the EGE got the evidence, which you say is not given. The study you refer to is EGE elements. There is no clearer framework. Every day we announce cases, intubated, people who have lost their lives. We follow the strictest recording system. The United Kingdom, whatever is after the twenty-eight days, does not account for it as a death of COVID. In other countries they say that if there is no PCR and the one who dies was rapid, they don't count him as COVID. We have the strictest recording system, so there is absolutely no reproach. We call the IDs we have. Every day we are talking about the ICUs with a full transparency. And in the monoclonals yet, as you can see, we have a platform that makes the application, that there is absolutely no "ski" that the Minister went and gave orders to get the monoclonal. It's a perfectly transparent system throughout the pandemic management framework. And from there on, in a dynamic state, we reach the strengths of the system and we try every day, especially the nursing and medical staff, to give a huge battle that you can understand, when you have two ICU lists, a list of COVID incidents, a list of non COVID incidents. Obviously you have to "marry" these because you may one day have anticipated COVID and unexpected non-COVID, but you cannot transfer people the other day to the contrary. So let's leave this conversation behind. As far as the study is concerned, the matter has been clarified. In Maximo, there has been no study at all. No study has been submitted to the Ministry of Health - I have sought the protocol - but also to the conclusions of the study, Minister, - and this is important - we have taken all the steps...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u147	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u148	...so one to one of the conclusions that the government's study says tried to deal with by vaccinations, with an attempt to reduce the intubated, with an effort not to get the man to the hospital and the ICU. Because what does the study say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u149	That the health system needs to be strengthened and you haven't done it, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u150	It says that if they're over four hundred tubed up, no matter how hard it is to manage the incidents. He says if you have more than four hundred tubed, it's hard to manage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u151	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u152	And to finish, Mr. Xanthi, what happened? Because we knew that we would necessarily have incidents outside the IF beds, which we had, as you had - at the pandemic was clearer - we tried to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u153	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u154	I'm closing, Mr. President. It's important. So we tried to use surgical beds even outside the ICU, which are obviously not the same, to use ICU beds, to use MOC beds, to have respirators, so that even in this context we can provide as best care as possible for the patients who will be found. And there was a huge effort primarily by doctors and nurses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u155	It's not an I.T.I.!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u156	The topical and urgent debate is closed. We interrupt the sitting by 13.00 p.m. at noon, in order to get Members to come - because they had been notified - and so we will enter legislative work to discuss the draft law on tourism. I would ask the parties' secretariats to inform the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives that they are all present at 13:00 sharply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Modern Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management, Management and Promotion of Destination, Viamatic Sources of Greece and other arrangements for strengthening tourist development". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 December 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting in principle on articles and amendments. The registration will take place electronically until the SYRIZA rapporteur Mr. Notopoulou comes down from Step. I think that there is no objection to the basic suggestion of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u160	In essence, Mr President, we have tabled an amendment to an article in consultation with the bill, and it was withdrawn before the bill came to the committees, avoided the hearing of bodies, and now we are now being tabled by another ministry. It's unthinkable. I call on the other parties in opposition, I imagine, to take a stand. It's unthinkable. He really tried the Ministry to avoid hearing bodies. It's about the shipwreck of Zakynthos. It concerns the property of two hundred families, ecclesiastical, municipal property, which directly seeks to protect the government for the sake of individuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u161	This has nothing to do with the procedure. You have entered the substance of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u162	No, no, it has to do with a procedure that is wrong and that is a disgrace to parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u163	Well, when it comes, then, you'll talk about it. I spoke about the basic recommendation on the procedure. What you said is a matter. When the time comes for the amendment, you have the right to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u165	What do you want? What is the point of procedure, Mr Santorinier?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I shall fully agree with Mr Arseni. Because the issue at the moment is that we have a burning issue, which everyone expected to come into the bill to be discussed in the committees, that the Ministry is shy and that it is now coming to us with an amendment and, indeed, an amendment on which the institutions were not given the right to discuss, that the institutions be invited to give their opinion. So, then, this process may be legally available, but in essence it is a huge evasion of the responsibilities that the Ministry has over the society of Zakynthos and also towards the national economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u167	Anyone else want the word?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u168	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I think that this amendment containing the Zakynthos shipwreck is indeed a serious matter. It is well-known that this has created serious indebtedness, conflicts and conflicts in the Zakynthos society, and that is why any attempt by the government has so far been delayed. The fact that it brings this amendment to the committees without even discussing the arrangements it has, is a serious matter and I believe that the government must rethink it and withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u172	All right, I will give Mr Françidis the floor, even though he is not a parliamentarian, he is a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u173	I would agree with my previous colleagues, because you know it is also a matter of political culture, when we discuss issues that concern societies and spaces such as this, which we see are causing social unrest, the least they could be called on to say their views, so that we too can take a clearer position. Unfortunately, this margin is not given, and I think it is completely unfair, because Members and local communities are also wronged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Heta, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u175	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u176	All right, I give the floor to Mr Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, no one wants to have or use the abbreviated procedures, which the Rules of Procedure allow. I also think that it has been admitted by colleagues when they say that it is not something that is outside the parliamentary habits. On the other hand, there is a question of whether there has been enough consultation on this issue and I think that is the main thing that needs to be answered today. Because this bill, as things have evolved, was put into consultation some time ago, there were a number of announcements, discussions and placements of all stakeholders from the region, the municipality, the chambers. All operators in reality of the island and beyond the island, in the region, have been clearly placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u178	For another amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u179	We'll talk about it. In any case, the image that is trying to show up, that there is a divided island, that in no way reflects reality and I will discuss the substance of it when it comes to my speech. But there has already been, for some time now, the government's stated intention to deal with this. The urgency that imposed the tabling of this amendment is clear that it is the fact that a few days ago the shipwreck was broken into pieces, that the sea took part, and therefore, if there is any frugality, we will all be here, in this Chamber co-responsible and accountable to the people of Zakynthos and I would say to the entire tourist industry in our country. It is therefore necessary to address this and to table the amendment by the government and we welcome the fact that it has been brought to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u180	Minister, here you go, you have the floor. I don't even put you in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u181	Will the Minister begin with his speech or will he answer our questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u182	Is the process starting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, you are usually patient and not hasty. Even Mr Paulakis, if you ask him, two years on my term of office at the Ministry of Health, knows that I am not avoiding and answering mildly, of course, with arguments for everything. At the end of my speech you will be invited to decide, ladies and gentlemen, whether you welcome and vote for this amendment to save the shipwreck, so that it does not become a real shipwreck of the shipwreck of Zakynthos or not. Anyone who does not vote for it is obvious and self-proof of the amendment that it will be accountable to the Greek people and to the islands and the Zakynthos. What for? For the very simple reason that it has to do with you - and this is what I am starting with - we have discussed the committees with the rest. Let us not evade each other now. We have discussed them with the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Tourism and Mr. Theocharis infinitely, endlessly. Consultation. Mrs. Notopoulou had made statements in 2014, as I see here, about the shipwreck and the investment. It was 2014 and it's 2022 in a few days. A solution to the shipwreck hasn't come yet. I have studied, ladies and gentlemen, very carefully what you have presented in the consultation, what you have publicly said from the Church to the municipality, to the district, to the Chamber, to the hoteliers, the ones that apply, the ones that do not apply, etc. The political leadership of the Ministry of Tourism has decided to separate, Mr. Colleague, as promised by the committees, the part of the immediate, undeniable need to protect the shipwreck, to restore itself, to safeguard itself with studies and projects directly from anything else. Find an experienced MEP on such matters to explain - perhaps Mr Spirtz - that this provision only applies to that. Question: There is something within the provision concerning the ownership of the area and the island, if it belongs to the Church, belonging to the municipality, belongs to the region, belonging to individuals, belonging to the emir, belongs to someone behind it, etc.Huh? No, of course, this isn't about it. I have also explained to the committees that I am not looking forward anywhere to the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Health, where I have never been involved, nor have I ever been involved in matters of judicial authority. I explain that they are distinct institutions of the Constitution, judicial, executive and legislative powers. I am bringing a provision today solely for the immediate and urgent needs of the second most photographed destination in Greece, the shipwreck of Zakynthos. Apart from the fact that because of bad weather a piece has left, our fellow citizens and travelers are at risk throughout this five-year, six years, seven years. Unfortunately, we have grieved and human lives. It is now too local because locally, ladies and gentlemen - let us not be fooled - regardless of the party origins of each of us, it has not been possible to resolve the issue over the past few years. I am therefore bringing an amendment which does not have an anonymous company, which does not talk about the property issue, which does not go where we are going to discuss again - because the second part we want to see it and discuss what growth means in a region and how the region, the municipality, the local operators - should be supported - but it goes to something that is very important: the beach is closed for a year and a half and this extraordinary attraction for the country is not working, so value does not take. So people can't locally take advantage of it. Do you not want me to bring an amendment to this regulation alone? Read it. We have all the opportunity today to discuss it, from now on to what you want. That is why I am starting with it, and I repeat that for the rest of the bill we have discussed. I will tell the House and five things again. I think it's the most discussed bill in the history of modern post-multiple. Why? Because he's gone and he's been here a hundred thousand times. And today, at last, we vote and we're done. But this is about what? A five-member committee, with a member from the Ministry of Tourism, one from the Ionian Islands Region, one from the municipality, one of the existing local hotel clubs, one from the Zakynthos Chamber and the Building Company, with the agreement of the Ministry of the Environment, in order to carry out all kinds of studies and projects exclusively for the shipwreck, half of which has collapsed, so as to support, beware of, enter such a safety frame, first of all, in order for tourists, travellers and locals to be able to visit. It's over. There is nothing else to do with this provision. Please, therefore, because we have been through a budget a few days ago and also the Christmas celebrations are coming, and I imagine - I do not know, Mr President - that it may be the last sitting today or not. So in this spirit at least we must read what is being put forward and comment on it. I, therefore, as Minister for Tourism, come to testify. You'll tell us, after you read it carefully, one by one if you agree to or not to be resurrected, guarded and made the shipwreck, not collapse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u184	We've read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u185	You will also be judged by the local society, by the bodies and by all those you defend, whose respect I respect all horizontally the opinion and opinion, as well as your opinion. Many times he doesn't agree with mine, but that's democracy. I respect her, I honor her and I hear her. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We studied carefully at the Ministry of Tourism with my colleagues, the State Secretary, the General Secretariat and the service actors what can be done immediately so that we can open the shipwreck by the summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u186	It's understood. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, this is all. I'm gonna need a minute for the bill. The bill has scientific tools, modern tourist management tools, which local government can exploit, exploit private individuals, exploit the rich, powerful steam engine of the Greek economy, which is tourism. It has such tools that we can also locally and over-locally and in all the regions, not only in the two and a half regions, which mainly take the weight of summer holidays, have tourism, show winter destinations, and also in the mountain destinations, and also display health sources, and display the unparalleled beauty of Greece for 12 months of tourism. So that's the kind of thing he's got. It is hard to disagree about it. Consultation has also taken place with the CEDEFOP on these issues, and with the institutions on them, it has also been done with the municipalities a hundred thousand times. I invite you to go beyond the micropolitics and to vote on the government's bill on Greek tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u188	Well, we're done with the proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Santorinier, we're done. Tell your speech what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, it raised the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u192	The amendment when the time comes, you have a trilogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u193	It's not in our speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u194	We won't waste time with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u195	He can't stay like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u196	So, Mr Santorinier, the procedure is based on the Rules of Procedure. I realised that, if necessary, you have objections to the procedure why not come to the committee, whether it had come to the committee and some of you voted on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, as a parliamentary representative, do I have the right to speak after the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u198	No, that's not what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u199	But he asked us to put us in!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u200	No, the process is closed. In your speech, say what you want. We're not going that way now! The Minister gave an answer to the objections you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u201	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u202	Here, say on a point of order, but it will be on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u203	The Court ruled as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u204	You cannot fool me, asking for the floor on a point of order and speaking on the substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u205	No, Mr President, you are an expert!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u206	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I will not speak about what the Minister said, but the Minister has been placed by the Step in particular on the amendment. I don't imagine that's the speech he's going to make about the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u208	Basically, that's her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u209	In particular, he spoke of the amendment and asked all parties to put us in place. In fact, he also put issues and put us accountable to the local community. Do you think that, following that position of the Minister, we have no right for two minutes to make a statement on this matter? Is that possible, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u210	You're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u211	I'm not talking at all about what he said. I am speaking on a point of order and I tell you that we are asking for two minutes to be placed as Parliamentary Representatives on what the Minister said about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u212	I'll give you the answer. The Minister is provided for under the Rules of Procedure - you have raised objections to specific matters, some of you have entered and, in essence, explained for four minutes what this amendment is and you will be asked - after you have seen it - when it is time to discuss the amendment, whether you would like to vote on it or not. And he said that yes or no of you will be judged by the Greek people. What kind of violation of my procedure are you telling me? Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u213	If it is on a point of order, Mr President, we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Santorinier, the point of order is closed. Mr. Heimaras has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the electronic record system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u215	Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing an additional important bill to this House today, which attempts to upgrade and renew the developmental orbit of one of the main pillars - if not, the most important, along with the primary sector - of the Greek economy and society, tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, which was the best year in the history of Greek tourism in terms of revenues and arrivals, the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises instead of celebrating, talked about the need to change the country's tourist model. He presented as a problem the fact that many destinations have now exceeded the limits of their endurances and capabilities. It also proposed the importance of adopting and implementing a different strategy for the development of the tourism product. He raised the issue of enrichment, of diverse projection and dominance - I dare say - the need to develop synergies. Tourism today, more than ever, has to deal with four as serious issues: over-concentration of tourists in a few parts of the territory, especially islands, increased tourism traffic, especially in summer time as a result of the unique development of our tourism product around the Sun and Sea model, the recession in which tourism has come around the globe because of the health crisis - it is estimated that losses exceed 75% to 80%, compared with the visitors of 2019 - and the absence of a strategy to exploit the comparative advantages of each region, the absence of a strategy that starts and ends in individual efforts, whether self-government or private individuals. On these issues we respond with this draft law, which aims to promote and promote alternative forms of tourism, to protect cultural and environmental heritage, which are at risk of overconcentration of visitors in some areas, to protect and develop health tourism, as an integral part of entertainment, mental and physical health and well-being, and ultimately as a catalyst of the travel directive. In order to start any attempt to reshape our tourist model, with respect for our country's natural reserve, the special framework for cooperation should be defined, among all the actors involved in the field of tourism, central government and state structures and services, local government and the private sector, which also raises the greatest burden of our tourism development. This is exactly what is being attempted in Part One of the bill. We introduce two interconnected organizational structures. The first is the Interministerial Committee for the Planning and Development of Standard Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management. These areas, which contribute in particular to strengthening the tourist image of Greece, based on the recognition of their identity, their particular physical characteristics, the dynamics of the local society and the economy of destination, the adequacy and level of accessibility for disabled people and reduced mobility in tourist infrastructure, the range of tourist season and a range of corresponding characteristics. The second structure is the Local Regional Observatory for Sustainable Tourism Development. Local authorities are given responsibility for managing and promoting tourist destinations in addition. Existing local government development agencies or existing LAG development anonymities may act as a management and promotion organisations. It is worth mentioning that the agency can work with tourist agents and airlines to implement refreshment programmes. These programmes shall be financed by up to 50% by the management body or the management body concerned and by the remaining percentage by professional associations of persons or enterprises and bodies in the private sector. [[At this point, the H' Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of the pandemic have not only shaken the financial data of tourism, they have also had a decisive impact on the psychology of the destination on the visitor's side. Recent studies say that almost one in two Europeans choose to travel out of a high tourist season - off season, that is - while one in three prefers to visit more isolated destinations. In this trend we must respond by reconstructing our strengths so that our top tourist destinations do not lose visitors and, at the same time, speed up the emergence of new destinations of experience. It is no coincidence that competitors - let me say - countries change their tourist model to a large extent. Italy, for example, introduces the term slow tourism, which runs counter to multiplier visits and turns to quality and experience. It focuses on an alternative way of traveling and living that contains more authentic knowledge of the place the tourist visits. Spain, the second European country to be visited, and perhaps Greece's main competitor, has expressed the need to transform its tourist model in the period before the pandemic. The many and extensive deteriorations in the natural environment, the consequence of the overconcentration of tourists, have brought about a stagnation in the development of tourism, therefore also in the economic and social development of the tourist regions. Recently, in fact, the director of the Spanish tourism agency said that Spain does not just want to return to the levels of 2019 and is based on the model "Sun and Sea", but rather to promote tourism in less well-known and tourist-developed areas of the country. You are aware, therefore, that the need for an early adjustment of the Greek tourist product to the new international data needs to be made. What's the target? Tourism development everywhere. In all thirteen regions of our country. Twelve months a year with the rational and sustainable utilization of the characteristics of each place. They are these features that broaden the range of the visitor’s experience, create new prospects and open new paths. A model that exploits the quality agricultural products of Greece, the exceptional climatic conditions, the unexploited historical and cultural stock, the journey to the history of life that one meets in every corner of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece stands out for its natural, cultural, environmental and rural resources, which allow alternative forms of tourism to be developed. Mild forms of tourism, such as health tourism, which is interwoven with the tourism of well-being healing and heating. The turnover of the global market alone of medical tourism is estimated at more than $20 billion. Countries such as India, Singapore, Thailand, Costa Rica, Israel and Turkey have already claimed a piece of this profitable market with impressive results. In my place, in Fthiotis, as in many other regions of the country, since the thermal sources and the tourist infrastructure were abandoned by the Greek state, they left to their fate, devastated and hurt the local and national economy to the maximum extent. It is precisely in this reversal of the image and their real exploitation that the provisions of Part Two of today's legislation focus on them. This defines the framework for the establishment of a public limited company called "Viatic Sources of Greece", aimed at the overall, homogeneous and efficient management, exploitation and exploitation of the natural health resources and sources of the country, as well as their facilities as part of the property of the Greek State. The object of the company is to ensure and use know-how for the recognition, exploitation or concession of the country's thermal resources and sources and to create investment files for their optimal use. The company "Miatic Sources of Greece" aims at managing and exploiting natural thermal sources and their facilities within a radius of five hundred meters. The necessary prerequisite for this cooperation is the assent of local TETs. In addition, and especially at a time when the available financial instruments of the NRP of the new programming period and the Recovery and Resilience Fund are in surplus, the provision of the possibility of the company's participation in the “Viatic Sources of Greece” allows and enhances the realistic use of sources and facilities. Only EUR 320 million from the Recovery Fund will be directed towards tourism as a whole and to modernise businesses, without the leverage that will arise. Only for welfare tourism, which is linked to the utilization of our thermal wealth, will be allocated around EUR 22 million, while significant amounts are provided for other alternative forms of tourism, mountainous, rural tourism and gastronomic tourism, as well as wine tourism. At the same time, special attention is paid to strengthening public infrastructures linked to tourism. What I have described, ladies and gentlemen, is called strategic planning and full use of the available tools, which we have arranged to activate even during a crisis that has corroborated the global economy and the tourist market as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutional regulation of technical issues linked to the functioning of the tourism market and requiring more efficient management is dealt with by the provisions of Part Three of the bill. In the very useful processes of consultation and the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade, we had the opportunity to analyse these provisions thoroughly. I would like to refer again to two key changes made by the bill concerning the modernisation of the procedures followed by the EOT to promote the country. At the same time, the regions are given the possibility of a partnership with the private sector, similar to the one already held by the Greek Tourism Organization. The aim, of course, is to promote the Greek tourist product and by means of cogeneration, cogeneration and so on. Secondly, in the capacity of the Ministry of Tourism to draw up training and vocational training programmes on tourism, as well as to establish the basic obligations of the tours on training issues, I should like to congratulate the Deputy Minister for his excellent work, Mrs Zacharakis, who has the corresponding experience. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister referred to the amendments. As a former self-government, let me tell you that in relation to the protection measures of the Zakynthos shipwreck which we are providing for in the provisions of the model of tourist qualification and protection of its shipwreck, more than anyone - and I speak to you, I say again, with the experience of the authoritarian - those involved in this committee are interested. And those involved are a representative from the region, a representative from the municipality, from the hotel club and from the chamber. They are the ones who are most interested in the development of their country - the excellent colleague who has informed me, Mr Akiupis, who is elected there, will be mentioned in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, at the new era that starts after the end of the pandemic, in which Greece must prepare appropriately for the changes that will inevitably come to the tourism sector, with the main axes of upgrading our tourism product, extending the tourist season and making use of alternative forms of tourism, which can ensure uniqueness as a destination, we are today legislating the necessary provisions to achieve this purpose. For all of this, I urge you to vote in favour of the bill by removing any party idealism. On the subject of progress and prosperity, moreover, there are no conflicts but synergies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u216	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Notopoulou, rapporteur of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Madam President. We have seen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the procedure, we have heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the Minister a little. As if nothing is happening today, as if we do not live in an unscrupulous health tragedy, as if Greek tourism were not being swamped by the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises, as if the world of tourism is not hungry, as if the future that you have reserved for the Greek people for your responsibility is not being eradicated, would you come here today, in Parliament, to do what with this bill? Any of the things you announced? Did any of the things you promised? Any of the things you advertised? Oh, no! You come to trap Greek tourism in the service of specific interests. Who? Greek tourism, the pillar of our national economy, the country's heavy industry. This is how you deal with our national case. Your only agony at the most critical time is to take off the silvers of Greek tourism to the hammer, to make direct assignments, to make S.A., to share with direct assignments from studies to the country's brand itself. Do you really, Minister, have any conscience about the drama that Greek society experiences, about the situation in the world of tourism? Do you have any sense of your responsibilities and many ministries? It's a rhetorical question. We know very well that you will not stop mixing the candy of so-called governmental success. Challenging and cynically you act like nothing happens, like you don't know anything. Really, Mr. Kikilis, I invite you from the Step of the House to place yourself, did you know about the Tsiodra - Lytra study? You were a Minister of Health. When they state that since May they have notified all those who take the decisions at the highest level immediately and repeatedly, what do they mean? Have you been passed over and gone directly to the Maximus Mansion? Do you know or not about the study that proved there is 87% increased mortality outside the ICU and that 38.5% of deaths would have been avoided if you had shielded the National Health System, yes or no? You were two years old, Minister of Health. Answer us, is it the same to intubate someone within the ICU, with all the necessary medical care and the staff and the same to be in a ranch? You didn't even inform the Prime Minister yourself? Regardless of this study, let us know how many deaths are, how many died evacuated outside intensive care units, how many homes. What do you know if you don't know that evidence? You guys look so good? So cynical? What did you do? You chose not to strengthen the National Health System, but to provide customers with the private treatments. You triumphed yourself for a thousand four hundred and eighty-three ICs in Greece in March 2020. What went wrong? The "VIMA" on 2 November: "Except for 51% of deaths." The "News" on December 29th: "at least 80% of deaths outside the ICM". In February 2019, you yourself accused SYRIZA of forty dead of influenza. 'DOCUMENTO' is relentless. Not even one apologies for you for this horror. Today, with nineteen thousand eighty-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-man-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-man-and-man-one-man-man-man-man-na-man-man-man-man-man-na-na-wide-wide-man-man-man-wide-man-wide-man-man-wide-wide-wide-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-nny-man-man-man-man-man-naeels-man-naeel, wenan-man-man's-'s-man's-nenel, we's, we's-and-and-man-nenn's-nann's-en's-nen, we-n's-nenel, we's-n's-and-tttttttttts-nenel, Let's go to tourism. How many collectings, Minister? Was it 12 billion? You know very well that in September the receipts were 8.7 billion, 46% less than 2019 and the move minus 57%. How many French tourists visited us, Minister? Plus 88% of what you told us? Minus 27.3% in nine months. I guess you didn't expect that many arrivals in December. Winter destinations are 'clause'. In December you launched the winter tourism campaign. New travel instructions. That's a mess there, too. Finally, a decision on time, a decision made! In the morning rapid, at noon PCR, at night another check. That's a mess! That's enough! That's enough with the ultimate excellence you've proved to be an effective inability! May I remind you of the successes of your Government in managing tourism? He's got your signature, too. In July the first arrivals. No plan. You left the islands unarmed, left the health units unarmed, the National Health System, the local units. You didn't have a reliable tracking system, no checks. The EVA algorithm from the result failed. International registrar on the former Minister of the BBC who was trying to convince about the high rate of vaccination. You yourself spoke of three million instalments in August 2020 and then your Government Representative discredited you shortly. You did not ensure a free test for Greek citizens, but also for tourists. Inadequacy of diagnostic tests on tourist destinations. People couldn't leave, they couldn't find quarantine hotels. You've done it! You, like your predecessor, referred to your so-called success in managing the pandemic. The clear sanitary arm - you were Minister of Health - saw it the worst. See what you're doing, then, how you're saving tourism. Souetto small and medium-sized enterprises, leftovers, wave of bankruptcys, focus programme. You've ruled 72% of business. Tourism grant programme. You've ruled out nine out of ten companies. You are feeding a recovery fund of 0.6% for the sector that contributes 20% of GDP. This is how you realize the need to support tourism. You exclude the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises from the EUR 12.7 billion that will be deposited in the real economy. Not to mention the world of tourism. Seasonal workers eat panoramics in tourism, because they do not have bread after you deprive them of the unemployment benefit. So you're coming today to do what? Give solutions to the real problems? Oh, no. You bring in fast track procedures a bill that alone is anxious - I say again - is privatisation and direct awards. Where's the countryside tourism? Where is he? Where is it, Mr. Theochari? Where is he, Mr. Kikilia? Where is the reform in tourism education? Nor, in fact, the joint ministerial decisions on the introduction of alternative forms of tourism did you even bring the Presidential Decree on tourist escorts. It is a bill that does not meet the real needs of tourism. And it does not respond because you are not interested in these needs, because you have neither a plan, a political proposal, nor a sustainable and fair development strategy. All you care about is being weaned and acting back in interests. Therefore, introduce the concept of Model Tourism Destinations for Integrated Management. Unnecessary, vague criteria, no environmental dimension. You go and load overtime, saturated destinations, an additional separation between destinations. Destination Management and Promotion Organisations: Where is the innovation you announced? Is that what you are bringing today to vote on, the Management and Promotion Agency? We need a Organisation for the Management and Promotion of Destinations - globally an effective mechanism for managing and promoting tourist destinations - but you had to ensure the participation of all involved - public and private - of all levels of local government, their sustainability, their tools, their aim, sustainability, the environmental dimension, the digital transition. You are basically overcoming the institution of regional government and decentralised, you do not anticipate resources, you are bypassing any control and transparency in funding management, you are bypassing and degenerating the role of the EOT, you are creating agencies without staffing, without any competence. What do you create? Bugs! You therefore force the regions to hand over the work that has been done for years with experience, with staffed structures, with projects, with financial instruments for development to override all controls. Really, Minister, when did you last meet in the Committee of the Regions, which are represented by representatives from the regions? Have you once met with your Minister? Oh, no. You are completely uninterested in local government, and this is reflected in this bill. In the way you legislate, no, we just don't talk about integrated spatial interventions. Here you have forgotten the synergy of the three levels of public administration. So, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this is not the agency for the Management and Promotion of Destinations, but you are taking responsibility for planning, which is an extremely political activity, an extremely political process, from the elected bodies of local government, and you are transferring it to development without control of municipal councils, without control of regional councils, without the approval and participation of the EOT or the Ministry of Tourism. A board of directors and not a municipal or regional council, not a Management and Promotion Agency, will decide on the destination. There are issues of democracy, transparency, public money control. You are not interested, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the destination, but in the funding. Let's go to medical sources too, another big issue of the bill, other drawbacks. It is possible to consider that another S.A. Is it going to bring in the covetous growth for all of us? Apparently not! We strongly reacted to the original forecasts of the bill and we and local government. Your predecessor almost rushed you traitors to describe them from this Step of the House, answering my timely question, because they opposed the plans to protect the property. You brought something improved. Is it, like, improved? You've put a few tests for decision-making from the city councils. What are you doing? You create another S.A., in which you give all the responsibilities you deprive the municipalities, all the tools, all the facilities you deprive the local government of. H.E. So in self-government! You're opening this window today. Today for the sources, tomorrow for the lakes, tomorrow who knows what else. You are reaping a piece, part of the property of the Greek people, the Greek wealth. On the one hand, you give the municipalities time to decide on the fate of their sources, on the other hand, you do not provide them with a single tool so that they can make use of them. You drive them, you force them to the S.A. Legally. Concentration, privatisation. You are in direct contrast with what you are supposed to enter, the Management and Promotion of Destinations and confirm exactly our own arguments, that you are not interested in the development of the place, the local communities and the destination, but how you can guard this property. You're, in fact, serving the S.H.I.E. with known heterogeneous, client-state practices. Continuous references to an exemption of PPPs from the public sector and the PPP procedures. EOT: You do not provide for any substantial utilization or cooperation of the EOT with the Management and Promotion Organisations of Destinations. But what are you doing? You can arrange direct assignments. May I remind you of the decision of the Independent Public Procurement Authority? He had denounced a year ago the direct award operation without limit to MARKETING GREECE. Aren't you really embarrassed? More than 5 billion you've given direct assignments. That's enough! The country's brand arrives to share right and left. You've made the EOT accountancy. I must say that we were all really moved by your position just now, Mr Kikilia, to the shipwreck of Zakynthos. We were moved by your agony to protect the shipwreck. It really will not stop shocking us in the size of your hypocrisy, because you do not institutionalise measures to protect the shipwreck, but assigning studies to the back door delivering the public wealth of a great landmark. What are you doing? You are bringing an amendment at night to the local society, harming the public interest, serving interests scandalously. Night, that's how you rule. Why did you bring it overnight? If there is no consultation, so that the local society is not heard, so that the opposition is not heard, so that there is no democratic dialogue, that there is no control, that the Scientific Committee of Parliament will not be placed on the legality of the amendment that you tabled without shame. From the grace of "NAYAYI S.A.", to the committee of Mr. Kikilia. You are trying to legislate a clear scandal. I don't know who you think you're making fun of. You have not even given - this is your democracy - the possibility of commenting on the articles relating to the shipwreck in the public consultation process. You did not bring it to the committee debate and the amendment came at night. We have asked you to commit to the committee that you will not table an amendment to the shipwreck. Mr Theocharis, of course, has speeded up with great concern to seek the establishment of a more lush form. So you brought in a more illiterate legal entity, a 'committee', a brother, with a 'comitology' of the last minute, a committee - a diversion. Why did you do it? It's obvious. It is obvious that your intention to put a brake on local government's efforts to manage the sight. Efforts of years, but over the last few days. It is obvious that your anguish to deliver through a committee the fates of a visible global range. You are dressing the wolf in advance and you are telling us that now the state power that has the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, namely the use of public property and effective protection, you are taking it into the hands of a committee that has no object, no legal personality, no legal status, but has powers, no studies, and you are giving it the opportunity to exercise administration and management. So tell us what this committee will do, without all that I have said, and that the Secretariat-General of the public office cannot do, even on the ground, has the real estate service. you are going to have an authority to exercise it by way of derogation. An attempt to transfer public property to committees with an obvious objective of serving private interests, by way of derogation from any legislation, is therefore inaugurated. Your reference to respect for the existing environmental and urban rules does not comfort us or mock us. We know very well who you are. You have so far proved how you are acting with your legislative activity. You open holes and windows to come and act the unspeakable today, but confessed to the consultation of your plans. You made direct awards a rule. Do you know that there are nine other beaches in the Ionia that have a problem with rock falls? What do you have to say about that? You give the committee the opportunity to share studies, to carry out all kinds of administrative and management acts not only of the saint and the beach, but also of all - look - of mobile and immovable facilities on it. What does that mean? You give the committee the opportunity to lease, even to seek expropriation, not only of the region, but also of what is in it. Leave it very well to know that there are objections and it requires redefining the line of the cavalry. So you must speed up procedures in such a way that the opinion of the competent authorities is made impossible by providing for incomplete deadlines, which are not transparent, allergic to public control. In fact, Article 8 of the amendment allows hotel owners to speed up the procedures for expropriation of beach parts in front of their hotels by paying for the compensation themselves. Tell us where you've seen this before! What is really needed for protection is immediate measures, is coordination of individual competent services, of ministries. And here all that proves is that your final state has failed miserably and consciously failed in this regard. Local society rises, but it doesn't sweat your ears. You close them both the door of the House and the democratic dialogue, because what you are interested in is the service of interests on the pretext of protecting the shipwreck. But you hide the fact, Mr. Kikilia, that the programming contract for the construction of the escape route between Mr. Skreka and the district manager was signed. How do you intend to interfere in this work? You'll open it with your hands. We therefore insist on protecting sightseeableness and maintaining a shared character for the benefit of local society. But you insist that you legislate scandalically, insist on putting brakes on the struggle of the Zakynthian people. But in your plans an obstacle will be precisely this struggle of the Zakynthos people. And it's his agony for the place that will save the shipwreck. The shipwreck, ladies and gentlemen, needs an essential and effective body that will result from a thorough study of the region's and Zakynthos' needs. And that will be the possibility of progressive governance. ‘Turkish horse’ means a horse that has been brought to start developments, not only in the area of Zakynthos, but also in each area. This is your policy, to grant public wealth to private interests, to rent private interests from education and health to tourism. While the major challenges are ahead of us, while tourism can and must be a lever for development and for productive reconstruction, while you have financial instruments, you continue to be obsessed as if nothing were happening, you turn the back into the world of tourism, you undermine the tourism that is our national business, you damage the public interest. So continue to provoke the Greek people, because he is the one with the new year to give you his answer, canceling your criminal plans. As you were lying to Mr. Mitsotakis and to the pandemic that you supposedly had no study showing the mortality outside the ICM, as you were cultivating false hopes that the pandemic crisis ended, while you knew in general how many of our fellow citizens would be lost, as you did in tourism. You have managed within two and a half years to be the brake of Greek tourism and the nightmare of the Greek people. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Notopoulou has used time from her denunciation, so I do not want any reaction. You know it has fifteen minutes prototype and seven and a half minutes of dentology, so with the twenty minutes that my colleague has taken, she has almost covered her time. Mr Frangidis now has the floor, a special speaker of the Change Movement. I would ask you very much to close the document system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we happen to discuss this draft law on tourism in a context of conditions which, unfortunately, are not at all favourable to tourism. The fifth wave of pandemic, with the highly contagious 'Omicon' mutation, strongly concerns the international scientific community. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control warns that the cases of ‘Omicon’ will increase sharply over the next few weeks and will bring additional hospitalisations, imports into intensive care units and loss of life. We all understand what it means to our country, with a national health system already afflicted and indebted, the ICUs at the limits of the infarction and a multitude permeated outside the ICU. The European countries, as well as the United States, in view of the festivities and the risk of translocation of the virus, are tightening up market travel measures and protocols. Everything shows that the recovery that occurred in the previous period our tourism was particularly fragile. The problem is growing for our winter tourism, which is not able to actually open up for the second consecutive year accommodations for twelve months and for companies connected to conferences and events that have suffered a critical blow. There is still a long-standing demand for continued targeted support for tourist businesses, as well as for the resolution of food and tourism issues, which, due to problems in the Erganis system, lack allowances that are entitled to, but also of new subsidised workers in the sector who are unable to receive unemployment benefits due to impossibility. It is a matter of survival and must be resolved. Unfortunately, the elevation of the "Omicon" mutation coincided with the late start of the Ministry's winter tourism campaign, making it virtually powerless. The situation is difficult, Minister, and they do not help amateurisms, such as the one your government showed a few days ago, causing the indignation of the tourist world. I am referring to the rapid communication on the requirement to demonstrate a negative molecular test for for forty-eight hours for travellers to enter the country with effect on Sunday, 19 December, giving seventy-two hours for the adaptation of tourist enterprises, such as tourist agencies and agencies. The next day you made the PCR seventy-two hours and even later you thought and added the possibility of rapid test twenty-four hours. Your handshake is a proverb and costs Greek tourism. You have done so, moreover, by the traveller tracking forms, the so-called PLFs, the border blocks and in many other cases. In relation to the bill now, as I said during the debate in the committee responsible, we have been waiting for a long time. He was presented to the Ministerial Council a year ago, entered the consultation which ended in 15 days in June 2021 and was submitted to the House six months later. He also suffered several differences, following the intense reactions mainly to the articles relating to the thermal sources, which essentially provided for the preservation of the thermal sources of the municipality, without the agreement of the OTAs, but also to the articles concerning the establishment of an anonymous company "Nagios Zakynthos S.A." for the management and exploitation of the shipwreck area of Zakynthos, where the reaction of the inhabitants of the area and the Church was strong as having a legitimate interest in a case characterised as a scandal. But that is why I am going to speak in detail in the context of the amendment you have tabled. Starting from Part One of the bill and the provisions providing for the designation of models of integrated tourism destinations and the establishment of structures such as the Management and Promotion Organisations of Destination, DMO's, and the Sustainable Tourism Observatory, I would like to say: The DMO's institution for the management and promotion of tourist destinations has been a proposal and position of our party's tourism sector for years. The need to manage destinations is undeniable. We have cases, such as Santorini and Mykonos, with a serious problem of overtourism, where visitability has well exceeded the limits of their endurance, when other destinations are devouring unexploited destinations. However, the way the Ministry of Tourism chooses to function DMO's differs in philosophy and rationality from our model of development, and we have disagreements as to how the Standard Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management are characterized. Constantly claiming our own space is the maximum and constitutionally possible return of competence to municipalities and regions, based on the principles of proximity and subsidiarity, accompanied by the necessary resources, economic, human resources and other resources. We consider it extremely important for municipalities to be able to manage their tourist destination, provided that this is done through an agency, a public limited company, for example, which will control the municipality by a majority, but which will also be able to participate other tourist operators, such as associations of hotel operators, agents, etc. This maximizes the benefit to local society. We have basic objections to the aggregated growth model adopted by your Ministry, with the dautic procedures and approvals, which most likely make it dysfunctional. The functioning of the development agencies and companies of the municipalities in the distorted form that operate today finds us vertically opposite. Moreover, development has many complex responsibilities, and many times they are subordinated and free of resources. So their concern with the subject will be incomplete. We cannot accept the exception from the draft law of the provision in the consultation which enabled the municipalities under fifty thousand inhabitants, the majority of the municipalities in the country, to set up one-stop shops for the management of destinations without any special bureaucratic provisions. Why, Minister, have you removed this provision? Do you only aim to further develop the big and already developed destinations? The most important thing is, Minister, that your bill does not provide for funding for the new structures you are creating. Therefore, you do not ensure their effectiveness and viability. They are well known to everyone, after all, the problematic finances of the municipalities. More generally, if New Democracy's multi-advertised, but still missing, transfer of competence to OTAs will be such as we see in these provisions, then a major issue arises. We are sceptical about the success of the project, both because of the processes being followed and why municipalities and regions are not being strengthened to make use of their tourism product for the benefit of local communities, although it is true that they know better than the central government how to do so. The provisions on standard tourist destinations left us with a sense of ambiguity and many questions about the procedures and criteria and the way in which they operate. How so general and vague criteria ensure the correctness of assessment and the final designation of a destination as a standard? It's not clear to us. And why is the Minister of Tourism defined as the ultimate judge for the designation of a destination, even overcoming the Ministry's Strategic Planning Department? We are also very afraid that what is envisaged by law as the competences of a destination designated as a model will not be possible. This is because no funding is foreseen anywhere in the draft law because DMO is managing and promoting a tourist product and destination. It is pointless to create new structures whose sustainability is not guaranteed. The same applies to the very important institution of the Sustainable Tourism Observatory and to the municipalities that are a valuable tool for strategic planning and monitoring progress. How will they manage to operate such structures without funding? Also vague is the relationship link between the three above-mentioned new structures in relation to the provisions of Part Two of the bill concerning the establishment of the company ‘Miatic Sources S.A.’. Although improved in relation to the original draft law, they still have gaps and lack of strategy for the effective development of all the sources of the country. The main question is what you're going to create. You go to create a development model for thermal two-speed sources, the ones that will have arrived at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. and will they be favored by others who will strive to grow up because they decided to stay out? And why, as set out in the annex to your bill, approval by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be required. the economic study of the investment project in the case of the thermal sources whose management belongs to the ATTs; Is it not a question of unfair competition if you need to get approval from your competitor? We are clear that in this case we should provide for a simple notification to the U.S. Ministry. In order to achieve balanced development of sources, we believe that the state should provide resources and know-how to the municipalities that will choose to use their own sources in the way they want, so that the benefit can be distributed to local communities. That's our position. Is it not paradoxical on the one hand to allow local government to exploit its sources and, on the other, not to trust it, as if there were no worthy and capable of Special Councils in self-government? Appropriate funding is the one to ensure that many viable businesses are created and not created. Finally, as the relevant bodies have said, there are cases where the process of giving the hayalus to the municipalities that have sources of volatile water at sea, such as Corinth, Zakynthos, Thera, Ikaria, Rhodes and Kalymnos, is needed. The remaining articles of the bill are mainly developmental - for example, a visitable and accessible label for brewery, cheese shops, etc. - that enhance the thematic tourism and aim to extend the season, facilitate and solve problems for tourist accommodations, offices, buses, tour guides, deal with tourism issues, personnel issues of the Ministry of Tourism, contain arrangements for the pandemic and others, with which we generally agree. A number of comments from the institutions should be taken into account. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say a few words about the amendment. Before I comment on the content of the amendment, however, I would like to support your unacceptable and clandestine legislative practice, without any elements of political culture and morality that, unfortunately, tends to become a statute in your legislation. You are going down to billed amendments with many articles, even combining positive provisions with negative provisions, with the aim of blackmailing the vote in favour of the Opposition, as there is the possibility of voting on the articles separately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's how you did it this time. Only you have now exceeded yourself and applied this originality: Unknown why you excluded from the draft bill the article on the exploitation of the shipwreck of Zakynthos, which existed in the consultation bill. You said it was urgent. But is the emergency for the few days you filed the bill now, so you don't have that article in it? You have chosen to bring it out of surprise in the form of an amendment to an article. What made you bring within an amendment such an important regulation that was at the heart of the consultation bill? In this way, Minister, you have excluded his debate from the committee's meetings, and you have not given the opportunity for the bodies of direct interest, such as the Municipality of Zakynthos, the Holy Metropolitan of Zakynthos and the representatives of the inhabitants of this region to be placed. We have received complaints from the Holy Metropolis, the Hellenic American National Council and from residents of the mountain communities about the property status of the area included in the coordinates given as the demarcated zone of Agialou and the beach. In fact, they speak of the health of property. We've read most of the relevant press reports. Mayor Zakynthos just published a letter of objection yesterday because the municipality is not included in the management of the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u220	Included.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u221	All of this is well known to everyone, even to the Prime Minister. We also informed that the Sacred Metropolis Zakynthos has submitted an application to Zakynthos Real Estate Service for the redefinition of the hayalou line at Zakynthos Shipwreck, accompanied by the relevant expertise. I submit to the Minutes the appeal of the Holy Metropolitan. [[At this point the Member, Mr Georgios Frangidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is understandable that this is a matter that raises issues and causes reactions and should go through the process of hearing bodies. Bypassing this process, Mr Minister, you are also mocking the Members who are taking part in this committee. Zakynthos Shipwreck is one of the most recognizable monuments internationally, a modern monument and the second most visited tourist attraction of our country. In view of the fact that a risk signal has been issued since 2016 and in 2018, we are fully agreed that care should be taken to protect and maintain it. However, this must be done without asterisks and without dark spots. If we were to vote on the amendment as referred to in Article, clearly and we would be voting on many of the other articles in the amendment, such as CIVID hotels or articles on the extension of credit notes, the articles on the strengthening of the Loutropolis in Evia, vocational training and training programmes. Unfortunately, your practice leads to other roads, not to lands of consensus and efficiency, but to roads of party opportunism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Katsotis, has the floor now. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleague Mr Constantine Vlassis is requesting permission from his absence abroad from 22 December to 30 December 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u223	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Tourism is primarily an extroverted sector of the economy, and at this time its vulnerability has been revealed by various unstable factors, such as pandemic, natural disasters, wars, interventions. The consequences, of course, are well known and tragic for the working people's families. However, within the framework of the single strategy of capitalist development of all the parties to capital, priority, whether you are government or opposition, is the further development of tourism. It is no accident, moreover, that SYRIZA, with the exception of a Joint Minister for Health, has asked at times and a Joint Minister for Tourism to reveal the shocks in the choices of capital. The New Democracy, SYRIZA, as PASOK, served and served the designs of business groups. They shall facilitate their action and business plans. They form the friendly legislative framework, with a large number of exceptions to general rules, with incentives, tax exemptions, tax exemptions and, above all, very cheap labour force, with the most provocative adjustments to the health protocols decided by the Government on the basis of the operation of tourist businesses and their profitability and not, of course, the health of the people. The general direction that serves this draft law we are discussing is the creation of the legal framework and certain state structures, in order to support the new tourist development model for the country. It is associated with the development of the NSRF and the Recovery Fund for the creation of infrastructure and with a new objective of introducing new destinations into the tourist product. A new model is being prepared that sets more decentralisation of tourist flows and a higher tourist income, which has the potential for such a quality and green holiday. On the occasion of green development, it prepares a new model that places more decentralisation of tourist flows, but also a higher tourist income that has the potential for such holidays. It leaves out the needs of the working people's strata. Of this more expensive, green, diversified and decentralised tourism. It turns the ground for investments in new tourist product contents. What regulates is legal and state preparation for this model of tourism, which will tie the chains of so-called "extrovert" to the areas that will be characterised as standard areas rather than a global regional development, which cannot, of course, be balanced within the capitalist system. It will create a greater bonding of which the standard area with an external income will be created. With the so-called extroverty, these areas will be more exposed to international economic fluctuations, developments in the tourism sector internationally, to the choices of tour operators to sell cheaper. The organisational structures provided for, such as the Interministerial, Local and Regional Observatory, the responsibilities conferred on local authorities, will implement the Groups' business objectives in large-scale areas with the agreement of the local and regional administration and the decision of the Minister for Tourism development. The amendment tabled complements the capital measures, by accepting requirements for a greater increase in the building coefficient, the opening of roads and the construction of other works in the woods by complex tourist accommodation, the granting of the use of sanctuary and beaches in business groups by expropriating the extent of the area and characterising it as public space at first stage. He's overcoming disputes with Offshore S.A. and provides for the proclamation of the Zakynthos shipwreck as a model tourist area for use and protection. It appoints a Committee for the Standardization of Tourism and the Protection of the Zakynthos Shipwreck that will do the work of the former S.A., after accepting the demarcation with the specific coordinates in the Agialou zone with the temple and any other property, constructions and facilities, those defined by the coordinator of the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, Western Greece and Ionian Sea, for which disagreements have been expressed, conflicts, controversies, controversies, because these coordinates include property of the inhabitants of the area, such as Volimes, Marias, Anaconmitria, included monasteries, temples, monuments, streets, sanctuaries, beaches. The Committee for the Standardization of Tourism and the Protection of the Zakynthos Shipwreck may, as the draft law says, derogate from any other provision of national law as a contracting authority for any task of entrusting studies or work. Any necessary authorisation for carrying out the appropriate maintenance, support, opening up of roads and making safe access to the area shall be granted by way of derogation from any other provision by means of a joint decision of the competent bodies of the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment and Energy and, as the case may be, within an exclusive period of sixty days. We call on you to withdraw the amendment or the minimum of this article on Zakynthos shipwreck. In Article 4 of the bill, development agencies, development anonymity companies of the municipalities and regions by decision of the councils of the municipalities and regions will be transformed into tourism management and promotion organisations, with the participation of the private sector and the placement of managers as head, as requested by business groups. In the same article, which refers to the financing of these organisations, provision is made for a rate of 1% of the municipal fees paid by the ATT to the local management and promotion agency concerned, which is known to be consistent with their remuneration. With Article 5, organisations operating by overtaxation will produce work, create infrastructure, study, spend the project to maximise the benefit of business activities. The bill provides for the association of organisations with businesses, professional associations and tour operators, with the aim of ensuring quality, as it says, of the tourist product offered through advertising, funding of management and promotion studies of destination and domestically and internationally. The management of environmental impacts from business activity is once again foreseen to be entrusted to the destination management agencies, namely the local administration, which will cost to implement actions of allegedly volunteering and social responsibility for restoring the environment, which business action will be charged with. It speaks of the ability of destinations as a criterion. Such a criterion does not exist in capitalist development or, of course, in your policies that serve it. Unique criterion is the maximum return on capital invested. The examples of Santorini, Mykonos, and other areas in terms of ability to carry are characteristic. There is a reason in the bill on sustainable tourism development. The concept of ‘sustainable development’ is not neutral. It is classic and primarily ensures maximum profitability. In Articles 12 to 25, full thermal natural resources and medical sources are provided with Recommendation A.E. to which all the rights are attached. Healing natural resources and sources are public property. You speed up their sale through the anonymous company, which will collect all the sources that have not arrived at the TIAD. Vital sources, natural wealth, are as we have said, new fields of investment. Our position - we have expressed it many times - is that all these medical sources should be offered free of charge for treatments to the people. Let us note here that they have cut off these treatments given to pensioners and those in need of medical baths. You have a new arrangement for the continuation of these treatments for the Ethiopian baths due to the disasters suffered in the summer. Under the arrangements of Part Three of the bill, whatever is in the way of the operation of all kinds of tourist enterprises, it is seeking to be addressed by strengthening its business activities and results. The draft law strengthens the growth of enterprises, as it provides for the combination of existing buildings within adjacent land or land with a view to creating a single hotel accommodation. Complex accommodation is allowed to create more furnished houses in the establishment by increasing the building rates, by invoking legal certainty as stated in the bill. The construction factors applied serve the size of the enterprises decided by the business group without the region itself being calculated and its spatial planning. In Article 39 the Rethymno, Corfu and Rhodes Tour Schools have been operating with only one person permanent staff, with a huge volume of work and fixed-term staff for about an eight-month period, mainly educational staff. This resulted in the deterioration of the schools. His staff at the Ministry of Tourism speak of the possibility of suspension of operation of Corfu Tours School. The Minister was not on this point, even though he was asked to the committees. We note that tour guides in their memorandum raise issues to guarantee their work and income. Under the specific provision of Article 43, there was a commitment that it would regulate the accommodation of IEK Crete, the building of which was provisionally considered inappropriate for use after the earthquake and the students for a third year will be taught cooking and pastry through tele-instruction. The administrative staff of the school are hosted at the offices of the Regional Tourism Agency of Crete. You are due, Minister, here to take a position on what you will do with IEK Crete. With Article 57 municipalities and regions, they will ensure ready clientele and profit by exempting business groups from promotion and advertising costs. It pays the people to sell the sun, the sea and the areas of the country's natural beauty to high-valent customers and, of course, they will be deprived of a few days' holiday. For the arrangements of the 'Tourism for All' programme, the social tourism programme based exclusively on employee contributions, after the abolition of the Labour Housing Organisation, has spectacularly been reduced to a number of beneficiaries of workers, while the pensioners have been thrown out. A small increase in the beneficiaries for 2021 to mitigate the effects of pandemic is a drop in the ocean and does not change the situation. The JRC's interest is not for large tourist groups, but for workers, micro-owners who suffer from them. He stands up against capital and its parties, organises the struggle against the major overthrows of workers' employment and insurance rights and the exploitation that has no limits. The salary, as I told you the other day, has come to be equal to a night's stay. The working conditions are far from perfect, with endless hours of work, with all kinds of work relationship. Sixteen forms of rubber that you have all voted on apply to this sector, with young people and young people working one season and then seeking to find jobs in another sector. Eighty thousand hotel people this year will celebrate without the unemployment fund because the Ministry of Labour did not recognize the signals of suspension in order to have the unemployment fund. Two hundred thousand food workers were left out of all support from the consequences of the pandemic. At this time, workers are taking redundancies pogroms in many hotels with the government to consent to incompetent action. Today he had the strike of workers at hotels in Athens because they were fired. The JRC overall highlights its political position and calls for coexistence in the fight of resistance and break with capitalist barbarism, monopolies and imperialism. Only by abolishing capitalist exploitation and capitalist ownership in the means of production will free time and organised social tourism be guaranteed, the anarchy of capitalist production will be eliminated. The first and main prerequisite for us is that all this huge wealth of infrastructure, space, buildings and socialization should be made available to the public in order to make the earth completely popular, the forests, the mountainous, the sanctuary, the thermal sources, the roads, the ports, the railway networks, navigation and airports. Labour power can, with a central plan and corresponding laws, allocate proportional productive resources, spread a level playing field throughout Greece, a network of hotel facilities, camps, accommodations, resorts, recreational areas, entertainment and culture centres. It will be able to design by protecting the environment, by using land balanced for productive needs, energy, nutritional folk needs. We claim and call on the people to claim state support for the right of every worker and people's family on holidays, recreation and tourism, the guarantee of monthly leave, the tenth wage for all workers, the 15th and 15th pensions for pensioners, the quadrupling of the beneficiaries of a social tourism programme with a substantial reduction in the participation of the holder in accommodation and means of transport, free holidays for pensioners, free access to all monuments, museums, natural and cultural sites in our country, and the creation of new public child camps for the children of all workers and the unemployed, which will operate throughout the summer. We have tabled, Minister, and an amendment to grant campsites to the employees of the Ministry. After all, you said that you would resolve this matter. To create free leisure spaces for all young people with affordable prices or even free for new couples, for the unemployed. Substantial measures to support all workers in the sector to ensure their income, to protect small professionals in the sector. On the occasion of the debate on the bill, the JRC invites workers, self-employed people, bio-populist farmers, for their right to holidays, recreation, well-being. It calls for a fight against the same cause that deprives them of all these rights, which are individual property in the means of production, in the infrastructure. We call for the struggle to be organised even more decisively in a pan-Hellenic coordinated movement that will have at its centre the main enemy, which is the urban state, first and foremost, and the European Union. That is why coexistence with the JRC is of paramount importance today, to lead to more general breakthroughs and overthrows, so that tourism is a right for the workers and the people. We are voting against the principle of the bill and against the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, on the issue of the Zakynthos shipwreck, we have referred to the first committee, denounced the method of withdrawing the article that was tabled in the consultation and predicted that it would be retabled by an amendment as it did. The amendment provides for setting up a company for the protection of the shipwreck, as well as management, as well as for the use of a haystack. Our questions here are as follows. First, who's gonna control the company? Does it have anything to do with the investors from Qatar? Secondly, how big is the area to be assigned to the company? Shouldn't a map be submitted along with the coordinates also be provided? Nothing has been submitted. Thirdly, why is there no costing from the General Accounting Office of the State for compensation for individuals and for studies to be awarded, as you are saying in the amendment? And fourthly, why did the government refrain from hearing bodies? Isn't that clear? In closing this, we avoided interfering in advance, such as colleagues, invoking the procedure, because we respect the rules here in Parliament. We only hope that the Minister will answer our questions, while the interest of a party that has embroidered the Acropolis for the shipwreck is rather paradoxical. The most scandalous provision in the amendment is, of course, in Article 5 that allows roads to be opened in private forests, recalling the destruction of forests for the connection of RES and, of course, substantiating the government's environmental hypocrisy. In the bill we will now begin with a more general reference to tourism, stressing that it is extremely diverse, and it affects both private and public life. It is obviously not industry, as we hear often, but services which are an important source of employment, development and improvement of our country's infrastructure. In particular, tourism is a horizontal activity related to many sectors of the economy, such as focus, accommodation, fun, etc., while it concerns many different areas of our country's social and productive fabric. It therefore contributes significantly to GDP while helping to disperse national incomes in the different regions of Greece. Furthermore, the inputs from the tourist services are partly offset by our huge trade deficit, which is literally the achilles heel of our economy, substantiating, unfortunately, that we are producing less and less. The rise in tourism took place gradually, along with the deindustrialisation of Greece, while it increased in the years of the memoranda because the troika promoted and promoted our focus in this sector, as in Portugal, and so on, with our excessive dependence on tourism. In other words, we have always led to what we call'monitoring tourism', so that in 2020 we will have the second biggest recession in the European Union, despite the fact that our economy has been based on much more money, even on Germany, unfortunately all with loan. That is, what Papandreou had predicted in 1962, namely that we will end up with the 'garsons of Europe'. Of course we believe in the importance of tourism as part of our economic activity, but our objective must be to show it in an area of high added value with greater duration, in an area that will exploit the enormous advantages of Greece, while not competing with low-cost countries and mass tourism. In addition, we believe in linking tourism to other sectors of our economy, such as primary and manufacturing, so that it has a multi-dimensional effect and multi-dimensional employment opportunities for the population. Continuing, Greece was one of the leading 20 countries worldwide in terms of tourist arrivals before the pandemic, while our tourist revenues reached their highest level in 2019, at EUR 18.2 billion. However, despite the increase in arrivals, the duration of stays and average expenditure per tourist gradually all these years were reduced, as we will deposit in the Minutes, with a slight increase in 2019, where "THOMAS COOK" went bankrupt, leaving a large gap in the market and unpaid accounts. 'THOMAS COOK' is a German company, don't forget it. In any event, the average tourist expenditure in 2019 amounted to EUR 564 from EUR 746 in 2005. At the same time, Turkey declares an average cost of 666 dollars in 2019, with a total of 34.6 billion and a total of forty-five million foreign tourists, while in 2021 - which we are proud of - is expected to close to $24 billion of twenty-nine million tourists' revenues with an average cost of $ 827 per tourist. It's a disgrace to us. So something is wrong, while fatigue in tourism appeared before the pandemic. The other problem is that much of the supplies that tourism consumes are going to imports at a rate of up to 80%, noting that it is unacceptable that even the traditional Greek breakfast includes imported milk, tea and butterflies. In today's bill: despite the fact that it is a slogan of amendments by the Ministry, it contains two interesting proposals for alternative tourism, which we have included in our programme a long time ago, which, of course, satisfys us, despite the copying. It's okay. The first concerns health tourism, which we have mentioned several times in our speeches in the House, while the second marks some other forms of alternative tourism, such as gastronomic. Continuing to the contents of the bill, in Part 1 and in Articles 1 to 11, the institution of the Special Organisations for the Exploration of Standards for Integrated Management Tourism, which concerns tourist areas considered to be of special treatment, is introduced. These are areas with particular characteristics, such as the natural and geomorphological environment, the possibility of developing specific forms of tourism, easy accessibility by means of means of transport, the concentration of beds and the duration of the season. In addition, a local or regional Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory is set up to monitor and study the tourist market, while the designation of these areas is on the initiative of OTAs, unfortunately also by a ministerial decision. The purpose of the management bodies is to assist the TAs with regard to the development of the destination, the management of the quality marks and the promotion of the tourist development companies, while the tourism development companies can be included in this framework as well as acting as management and promotion organisations. The second part, with Articles 12 to 25, concerns the creation of a framework for the management and exploitation of the natural thermal resources and sources of our country, while another S.A., the "Ialy Sources of Greece" or "IPE S.A.", with equity capital of EUR 5 million is set up for this purpose. The company may be transferred, contained and transferred natural thermal resources and sources, as well as the facilities and environment of thermal sources within a radius of five hundred metres managed by the EOT. In addition, the organisational and operational parameters, as well as the staff of the IPE SA, are described in its statutes in the Annex. In summary, for Articles 12 to 25, this is another concession of the State to private individuals, which at the same time constitutes a financial burden for the State on account of imperfections, under opaque procedures, with unclear objectives, over-concentration of powers with the Minister, as well as with the derogating party appointments, without their costing from the General Accounting Office of the State, as usual. In Part III, under Articles 26 to 63, individual regulations, i.e. 'photographic', are followed, mainly to some extent, by some, as well as by an innovation concerning the label of tourist facilities. More specifically, they concern the tourist ports and Heraklion Crete, which are of course intended for sale, tourist buses and, above all, open tours, which are now becoming electric motors and have access to the Greek market, but which should also be provided for the possibility of converting them to Greece, since there are Greek companies - we have deposited it in the Minutes - the tourist offices in relation to the letters of guarantee and fines, the tourist accommodation, tour guides, as well as staff issues of the Ministry. In addition, it concerns the licensing of tourist investment, which amends certain approval procedures especially in ski resorts, in diagnostic treatment, heating, sea therapy and rejuvenation units, as well as the visiting tourist unit brand. Finally, there are some procedural details for the Greek tourism campaign, arrangements for this year's social tourism programme for the payment of the vouchers, in businesses, as well as some measures specifically for the pandemic that extends the duration of the rental of tourist ports, and the compensation of quarantine hotels and the costs of moving the staff of the Ministry for checks. Furthermore, health tourism is part of well-being tourism because it concerns hospitality services in health sources, which is an additional area of medical tourism since this accommodation has therapeutic properties. In this respect, on the basis of a study by DENOSIS, well-being tourism could offer EUR 13.5 billion to our GDP - EUR 13.5 billion! - with a hundred and seventy thousand jobs in just five years - the figures are amazing - noting that alternative tourism in general is important for the expansion of the tourist season and for employment in non-purpose areas. However, while there is a good idea in the bill, its implementation, which has been presented today, has significant gaps, such as what sources and what valuations or leases will be allocated to the "IPE S.A.", to whom these sources belong, etc., while we mentioned detailed issues and examples in committee and there is no need to repeat them again. Continuing, with gastronomic tourism and the signalling of its various types, we consider it to be a very interesting case, which could and should be combined with domestic production, how much more so when it does not mean gastronomic tourism with imported products such as mustaches, dolmadic and Chinese honey, tomatoes of Turkey, Kalamon of Egypt, etc. Furthermore, the individual provisions on trade marks have mentioned in particular the small breweries to be supported, because they are an important source of local activity and employment. As we stressed, there is similar labelling for the wineries in our country, but which have not developed as much as in Portugal, noting that in the latter wine tourism attracted some two and a half million tourists before the pandemic. These also concern other trademarks, such as cheese and mills, important products in our country, olive oil and feta, which are unfortunately being destroyed by fraud, especially in exports. However, although it is a good idea, implementation is not specific, namely what will be the criteria for a trade mark, which will unfortunately be defined by a joint ministerial decision. As far as social tourism is concerned, the current arrangements are relatively minor, procedural, such as the facilities and the irreversibility of collection, as well as the extension of the period of redemption to the fire-fighting areas. It is good, however, that it has been promoted more in the pandemic, as we have already proposed first, although with only 97 million in 2021, and with a minimum of 12 million in 2022 in the budget. We had proposed supporting social tourism in 2020 with EUR 300 million, according to examples of other countries, not ours, such as Poland, while it is a mistake that 43.3 billion was wasted to support unemployment and only EUR 97 million was given to social tourism, which would support labour. Especially in relation to Articles 33 to 37, it seems to relate mainly to the new investment in golfing and co-ownership hotels of "COSTA NAVARINO", in which the Minister of Tourism was recently awarded by the Association of German Agents to deal with the pandemic in Greece, despite the fact that we already have the worst performance in the world. Of course the Germans also awarded Mr Papandreou of PASOK despite his condemnation of our country to the IMF. So one must be very careful about the awards given by the Germans. It is of particular interest that Article 47, which appears to be attempting to clarify the existing entrepreneurship in thermal tourism, with the forced signalling that its parameters are determined again by a ministerial decision. It goes without saying that the existing holdings that do not have a trade mark or do not meet the criteria of the "IPE SA", whether they are leased or not, will be sold more easily, depreciating any activity and goodwill. It looks like a kind of expropriation, while a reasonable period of adjustment should be given, so that the market - a liberal economy - decides that we have - in relation to their services. We will close with Article 60, which gives tourist ports affected by the consequences of the pandemic as compensation, the possibility of extending the duration of their wage contracts by two years. As we said, it is right, and that is precisely what should have happened with 'FRAPORT', instead of being compensated, like Turkey with the airport in Attalia. In the present case, the airport of Attalia had an explosive arrival increase in recent years, although the concession was terminated, in order to return as a result of the pandemic, instead of compensation as at the Greek airports. Prolongation of contract. Just these days, the 'FRAPORT' with its local partner submitted a proposal to extend the concession for twenty-five years compared with 7.25 billion euros, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, when over the fourteen Greek airports were granted over 1.2 billion euros for for forty years, with loans from the Greek banks and a completely scandalous contract. In other words, ‘FRAPORT’ gave more than six times as much to Turkey as to the airports in Greece, noting that Attalia had thirty-five million passengers in 2019, while the fourteenths of ‘FRAPORT’ in Greece were thirty million. Is it not, therefore, the definition of our government's nonsense, for the same passengers, to pay more than six times the price in Turkey for 15 years a shorter duration of the contract? Even worse, the "FRAPORT" imposed on Greece a 30 million passengers arrival limit for 2022, under which it would be compensated for by Law 4810/2021, which the Greek Government voted for, which compensated it - did not grant an extension, gave money - 177,9 million for the uses 2019-2022, when it supported our entire primary sector only 183 million. He gave FRAPORT 177 million and supported our entire primary sector with just 183 million. Is this not really about the limb of immunity? Is it not a shame to define the mismanagement because of which our country has been convicted of a rolling bankruptcy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now there is the floor for the special speaker of Mera25 Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members, MPs, Minister - the Minister himself is absent, but I know that you too are aware of the Zakynthos case, so you will be conveying them to him - obviously from the first moment, despite the hypocrisy of the government, our issue here was Zakynthos. From the first moment to Merra25 we denounced what the government was trying to do. What was that? He took the consultation of a bill with Zakynthos in, withdrew it from the committee, because he was afraid that the mayor, the people, the metropolitans, will come and say things the way they are in here for this Zakynthos scandal, and now he brings it to Parliament at the last minute when he has overheard the bodies. Simple and beautiful things, how the New Democracy understands Parliament's democratic function when it comes to serving interests. Because it is first of all an open land for eight hundred people, two hundred families, in the mountainous mountainous islands of Zakynthos, a municipal area and a church. The story starts a little older when it turns out, it's supposedly, the Emir of Qatar and all the governments are bowing down to Emir of Qatar who wants to buy Zakynthos, 15% of the island, and do terrible things. Eventually, Emir himself says he has nothing to do with it. The Athens Plenipotentiary is asking the prosecutor, who is still waiting to see the reactions of a long time later, to initiate malicious procedures for those who were involved in the sale process, whether they are private or public officials. So now that this whole Emir story is out, we're going to find another way. The idea of "NAYAYI S.A.", began that in the end all this land, 15% of Zakynthos, would be erroneously part of Emir. No, let's go see the piece, it's public, and it's the area around "NYAYIO S.A.", so we'll make a public company, which, of course, we can grant it to the so-called Emir of Qatar. There's no problem. Now that changes and becomes a committee. And what does this committee involve? The Minister tells us that this committee is only doing it to salvage the shipwreck, the ship, that is, the cigarette shop with the illegal cigarettes that had sinked over there. Let's see what the bill says, your amendment. The Committee shall be responsible for all types of administrative and management operations. Are you serious? All types of administrative and management operations are needed to protect the shipwreck? Withdraw those words, Minister. Delete them from your amendment. Why do you hesitate? So you can do SPP? Is it management, as you're telling us? You told us yourself about the hospitals. Management is the PPP. It doesn't affect. It's not a problem. So, SPP can be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u229	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u230	Yes, of course. As far as the other articles are concerned, you know that we are not all lawyers, but we understand, we read by laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u231	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u232	When something is included in a bill, it doesn't matter whether it specialises only protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u233	The cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u234	No, no. I read it because there are lawyers here. The responsibility of this committee and the reason is the conduct of all types of administrative and management acts of the designated zone, etc., with a party. The others are extra. The other things you put are extra, it's not the basic one. The main thing is what's coming in front. Bring me a legal person who interprets this amendment as you do. Get one. So what do we miss here? Special urban studies, with the exception of the provisions you have brought to your proposal for "NAYAYI S.A.", which will be done through strategic investments when you bring the PPP. And what did you bring us a while ago? Of course, if you give the management, when you assign the management to a private company via PPP, it can expropriate or not, to conquer in any way it wants a thousand and a half metres in a straight line of land, a huge area. Of course, there's a long story in this case. I remember when I had made the first timely question about the matter, Mr. Georgiadis came, who was piercing his clothes in favour of this investment. Afterwards, when he found out what the Plenipotentiaries Council said, he backed up and said: "I don't care. Let's do whatever the Zachynthians want. If they want to starve, they'll be hungry. It doesn't matter whether this area was legally or illegally acquired. She was untapped." I am now in peace, the land of eight hundred men was untapped. "And now a man has come to do something. If they don't want him, let them eat oak." Mr. Theocharis also supported it. He brought ‘NAYAYI S.A.’. Mr. Theocharis is gone. I don't know if this whole case had anything to do with changing his position. You came and brought us this whole process, which you know what reminds me, Minister? It reminds me when you had brought a change in the administration of the CEDEFOP to me as the first act of this government. I'll never forget it. This reminds me of the withdrawal of the shipwreck article to avoid the hearing and bring it to the last minute. Of course, Mr. Kikilis tells us that we need to do all this to salvage the shipwreck. The shipwreck said it was the ship with the illegal cigarettes that was immersed on the beach today called the "shipwreck". Mr Theocharis told us a moment ago that the shipwreck was broken, we were right. And I'm bringing you the photo here, and I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's today's picture. It is the ship of the shipwreck as there is a photograph of 2017, as it was. In fact, nothing has changed. I put it in the Minutes to finish the theater of irrationality. [[At this point the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Kikilis told us that for a year and a half no one has been going to the shipwreck. I would like to give you, Mr Kikilia, that we have again given the publicity and the timely question with Mr Theocharis - you do not know them, he has not informed you - this year's photos of the lift above the shipwreck. These are this year's photos from the seaside beach, which, apparently, has a lot of people. I hand them over to the Minutes, too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] They told us then that it was all for the safety of citizens and that there is a risk. Indeed, we had the tragic event of a man's loss of life in 2017. It is a case that has been very busy with the local press about what the possible causes were. But here we only have for 2021, this year, only for Zakynthos seventeen drownings on the beaches. Seventeen drownings in one year, zero accidents at the shipwreck. Four years ago, in 2017, we had a life loss, indeed, over all these years that this place operates. One loss is a reason for us to bring PPPs and privatization. The seventeen drownings in Laganas, Chilivi, in Basilica, are no reason to mobilize the government! Selective sensitivity I see! I can see how the city, together with the Church, can improve car management in order to improve further the experience of the visit. Of course, it is very impressive that this coastal zone of the shipwreck is a magical coastal zone where the beach is not at sea level. The beach at the shipwreck is up to seventy meters high and goes 15 meters in the eyebrow. I am presenting you here with the redefinition report, demarcation of the caucasus from an office for the Minutes. People went and found that, not much or much, any other beach than the beach is what you want to commission the management of. It is something that reaches ten acres above these terrible tower rocks, which make it such a great and important destination. It's out of the beach and a lot of land. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the question here is whether or not you are still supporting the investment of the so-called Emir of Qatar - because that is what this amendment is about - and I would like you to be clear. Tell us: Do you support, or not, as a government what has so far acted as an investment in the Emir of Qatar? Now we go to the other big issue: selling water, water flowers, thermal water, healing water. We have open sources in Thermopyla, Kamena Vourla, in so many other areas where thousands of our fellow citizens - and I personally and too many people here - are sure that we have visited and visited, because apart from recreation, they are also healing. Who says that? But the European cross-border health directive, which recognises the right of citizens, Germans, Italians, Belgians, Spanishs to leave their country and go to another country for heating, treatment and hydrotherapy. Regrettably, Greece cannot exploit these sources, which you are now privatising openly and closedly. It cannot use them because it has not recognized hydrotherapy as a means of treatment in practice. He will recognize it, after being privatised, when, as one goes to the very nice infrastructure in Syllah's Thermes, he will have to pay relentlessly with a valet that everyone does not have. On the contrary, what are other countries doing? In Italy, for example, because it is so important for public health that health sources have set a limit that only 10% to 20% of visitors to them can be outside Italy. Because they're putting public health first. These sources should be part of the National Health System, as is done in Germany, Austria, France, Spain. Instead, do you bring the "IPE S.A." in which? Apparently in Athens. Where will it be? In Poor Vurla or in Defiance? In Athens, of course, because the real estate office is, the real estate office is. Its aim is not to protect public health or to have access to this public good, its aim is to sell them. We heard at the hearing "the need for heating in Greece at the moment is a research that does not exist, is education that has been abolished for about sixty years, is a classification". Nothing about it in your bill. What is included in your bill. The municipalities have six months to make use of these sources, to decide on their exploitation, otherwise they will go to "Hiatic Sources S.A.". The "Viatic Sources S.A.", this anonymous company, will approve the economic studies of the municipalities and if they do not like them, will reject them. Is it possible for a private company to approve a public resource economic study that does not belong to it? Is it still possible that you have not deleted this part of your bill, beyond the deletion of the entire paragraph of the bill concerning the "Iamatic Sources S.A."? Of course, I wonder: The EUR 28.5 million of the Recovery Fund for thermal tourism, where are they going? Will they go to the companies where the municipalities are or will they go to the companies of the "Iamatic Sources S.A."? With the seven companies, what about the seven sources of the EBRD? Do they belong to another god? Are you going to put them in the "Iamatic Source S.A." or not? Tell us about it. Because you have avoided answering the question to three debates in committee, and I am sure you will avoid that too. What is going to happen with the seven sources that you illegally gave to the Board of State and you need to return them, not to the "Miatic Sources S.A.", but to the municipalities. We are going to another issue, "Tourist Port of Heraklion Crete". Here you are satisfied - supposedly - a request from society. When do you enjoy it? But now the "RED" subsidiary of "AKATOR" purchased a degrading sum of EUR 40 million of three hundred and forty acres in the Hercules of Heraklion in one of the most expensive areas. The price is incomprehensible. But that's not the point. She bought this and she'll do in mall and marina, suddenly you're changing the terms of the other marina. But let's see another case. Lureau. Tourist port on ancient Diolko. The CAS decides that it cannot proceed because they are these very important ancient ones. By ministerial decision of the then Prime Minister and Minister of Culture, Mr Samaras, it is also cancelled. But still, you haven't separated it. You continue the tourist port in Loutraki to have it on ancient Diolko. At the Tourist Port of Heraklion Crete, which came its subsidiary "AKORP" to buy the Gournes and do side by side, a few kilometers below, its own marina, you immediately rushed to make the correction. We're waiting for Loutraki. Diamonds. Here you are making a series of local destination management organisations. Is the purpose of organising destinations? Let's hear what the workers at the EOT tell us. We are told that your goal is to assign to Marketing Greece the studies for each of them. The privatization of the tourist view of Greece that you started from the EOT and you are now creating other fields for awarding the promotional studies of each region. We see, in other words, that where you wish, you gather them in one and when you have ensured privatisation for many, you share them, so that many studies can be. As far as the other articles are concerned, this is a lasting crime. Here we see the dissolution of urban legislation in terms of complex tourist accommodation and large units. What are you doing? In fact, you have a law for the big, that's above the law. The laws are just for the little ones! For complex tourists are above laws, that's your law. We want to denounce once again the shame procedures that have evolved in this Parliament, the circumvention of the Rules of Procedure, where these bills, like this, are tabled once and for all two and three days before the debate in committee and one week before the debate in plenary. The Rules of Procedure have been talking for a month. These procedures that make our democracy a reality, we invite you to stop them. Apply the Rules of Procedure of the House at last. Stop the express service now, because that's what we're experiencing here. It is obvious that Merra25 is voting against this bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u235	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. We're entering the list of speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, since the list is long, I would ask you to be consistent in your time, which I would remind you is three minutes. Mr Liupis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the amendment on the Zakynthos shipwreck that so many reactions exist from the standpoint of counter-population. The Minister has, of course, answered the substance. It does not refer to the territory's ownership status. I also heard that you give the shipwreck to the great interests. I have seen a five-member management committee, which, apart from the Ministry's representative, all others are representatives of local institutions. Chamber, hoteliers, municipality, district. So who represents these great interests, as it has been heard? The aim, of course, is an urgent matter. First of all, because there is to be rehabilitation, every day it breaks down. Secondly, safe access to the visitors' area must be guaranteed. And thirdly, access to the local community is closed for two years. In my opinion, therefore, we must all support this amendment in favour of local society. And in the bill, Minister, we all know that more than 20% of our country's GDP is based on tourism, under normal conditions. A timely request from tourist businesses is a specific strategy aimed at upgrading the tourist product and ensuring higher quality tourist services. That's what today's bill does, with a national strategy on tourism. It follows on from the deep incision made with the previous bill of the Ministry for Diving Tourism, which placed Greece for the first time on the world map in relation to special forms of tourism. Let me remind you that in Alonissos we have the first submarine museum in Greece, the oldest shipwreck in Europe, the shipwreck of Peristera, while other diving parks are being launched in the western Pagasios and the islands from the region and the Ministry. This draft law listens to market needs, solves practical issues that they had raised, demonstrating the Government's firm commitment to creating an institutional framework and a climate that is investment-friendly and entrepreneurship. By specific procedures, areas that cover specific criteria are characterised as Standard Tourism Destinations for Integrated Management. These are areas which already stand out for their tourist view. The standard tourist destinations stand out for their particular physical characteristics, can also support specific forms of tourism, such as access for people with disabilities, have direct access to ports and airports. Developmental organisations and LAG development companies are given the opportunity to function as Management and Promotional Organisations. Those organisations shall operate consultative and supportive to the TAs and assist in the implementation of a strategic plan for sustainable tourism development. Thus, it is particularly important that the Management and Promotional Organisations have the flexibility to cooperate with private enterprises, with chambers, withclusters and with tour operators, with airlines to achieve better results of advertising and promotion of each area. Organisations may establish a local or regional Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory. I would remind you that for decades and until recently, no reliable aggregates have been available for what we call a 'heavy industry' for our country. How can one develop a policy without having all the data available? We only had fragments from the Bank of Greece, from the entrance gates of the country and from the professional associations of tourist businesses. Now, beyond the Ministry of Tourism's Observatory, we have local and regional observatories that will allow us to have reliable data, decisive to determine the country's tourism policy over time and to take targeted development measures, focusing on local economies. A chronic request in Magnesia is the creation of the Northern Sporades Tourism Observatory and the Terrestrial Magnesia Observatory, just to have a reliable local tourist development mechanism. The bill also sets a specific framework to the thermal sources, whose function was a chronic and pondy problem. Healing sources are linked to many forms of tourism, as is well known, such as health, well-being, third-age tourism and yield significant revenues to other countries. The institutional framework for thermal sources is being modernised, but their management remains in the municipalities. The bill also contains a number of provisions for tourism development, solving issues that concern the tourism sector. For example, open -ended buses that make city tours are motivated to be more environmentally friendly. After the support, for example, of the tour profession that began two years ago with the operation of tour schools other than Athens and Corfu and Rhodes, the bill also ensures the tour profession. So it is prevented by fines from someone who has no license to work as a guide and also to make advertising about it. The EOT and its services were faced with difficulties of publicity on the social media. The cooperation with media shops upgrades the tourist view and ensures the visibility of the tourist product in the best possible way, fully exploiting modern technological means. The regions of the country acquire additional tools in the tourist advertising of their regions, since they are given the opportunity to cooperate at this level with the private sector. They open new roads to local tourist views. For the first time in Greece, rural tourism - if I may, the term - is that while we knew about visiting wineries, signs of visiting olive mills, cheeseries, breweries are now being attributed. Areas such as Magnesia show their comparative advantage. In Pelion we have the first certified vertically integrated rural tourist facility in Thessaly, as well as the visiting winery in Skiathos. The country's tourism product has reached such a high level that it not only competes with neighbouring countries but also with world destinations. The tourist services provided must therefore at least be equal. The tourist does not come to our country alone to enjoy the sun and the sea, but along with it to dive, play golf, to tour to unique environmental beauty, unique historical and religious monuments and enjoy images and experiences that cannot be taken anywhere else in the world. In this demand of the world tourist, the Greek businessman and the tourist worker, the Ministry of Tourism and the government as a whole responds with concrete actions, supported by the Recovery Fund of EUR 320 million. Tourism is a driving force for the Greek economy and with the new regulations, I believe, the necessary impetus is provided. Thank you and apologies, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u237	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now he has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr. Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the fact of the constant returns of the amateur type to the deposit of this bill proves first of all that the government does not have a strategy on tourism issues, does not have a strategy for the tourism sector, has not tabled a proposal for the spatial planning of the Greek tourism sector, as well as how Greek tourism will respond to its challenge after COVID era. It does not respond to other important issues of tourism, such as the costs of operation and energy costs, which have been incurred, as I have also informed the Minister in a committee, but also to the labour issues, such as, for example, the big problem of the two hundred thousand tourist and leisure workers, who are outside the benefits of Mr Hatzidakis' recent regulations. However, today the tourist facilities of our country and, in general, the Greek economy, are affected by an outraged precision race for which the government has major responsibilities, as it has left the shamefulness and fuelled the increase in energy from September 2019. The consumption of tourist enterprises is reduced due to the exit from the summer season, but the burden is increased. We have tourist enterprises that in August, September and October had EUR 2,500, EUR 1,500 and EUR 1 000, but the burden remains stable at EUR 1 000 and will increase, up to triple, in the next few months. However, the Prime Minister did not say anything about the tourist business in his budget, and that is tragic if anyone talks about the flagship of development in our country, about the tourism product. We have heard nothing about both the workers and the operators of tourism and recreation in the budget. On the other hand, in this bill the way you legislate and the establishment of the management and promotion organisations, as well as the establishment of the company "Miatic Sources of Greece S.A.", as Mrs. Notopoulou has demonstrated, proves that you want to get away from the government, put aside, take away the responsibilities, get away from financial control, transparency, and faithfulness in managing public money and collect management somewhere centrally. In practice, you want to serve what all of you are, "Maximus S.A." and the service of the deals. That's what this bill does. It was right, ladies and gentlemen, to raise the issue of the amendment on the provisions on the shipwreck of Zakynthos. Night was tabled on Friday, and it even conceals a clear approach to avoid consultation, to avoid commenting by parliamentarians and bodies, and to avoid the Scientific Service of Parliament, as well as other provisions in the amendment, particularly those concerning public forest land. At the back door, therefore, the Minister brings in a regulation for an area in which there is a felony in which he says nothing about this problem. Who did the consultation that Mr Theocharis said? The committees of Parliament? The MPs? The organ hearing? Because he said there was a consultation outside the House. This demonstrates first and foremost what the New Democracy has for Parliament. Secondly, the Minister told us that the public has no tools. So, Minister, doesn't he have the State Building Company? Doesn't he have the municipalities? Because right now you're coming to migrate the public by saying there's no tools. If you really are interested in the wreck issues - you said you were interested - why do you not bring them to the committees? I personally asked you to tell us in one of the committees what you want to regulate and you did not even tell us that an amendment will be made. You hid it. You were a snitch in the committees, and that makes us suspicious. And it makes us suspicious because it is the past of the Mitsotakis Government in everything that has been done against public property and the public interest. So you put into the provision of the amendment derogating from the existing provisions and set up a committee to entrust studies and projects with derogations. But why have you not told us what the government's position is on the public prosecutor's proposal to extend felony charges on the basis of Munich 1679 2020? Because it is technically delayed by the supplementary public prosecutor's proposal to formulate additional felonies for seven people who have set up the case of selling third parties to Emir, Qatar, and all that you accused us of not wanting development. Why isn't he moving on? Cat in the area sold without having fourteen thousand acres belonging to Metropolis, a monastery, at least two hundred small owners and municipal lands. Is that why you're not going to say anything? Aren't you going to talk about it? You will speak, in other words, that the State Building Company does not have competence on public land. Really, how perfect is that government? There are serious issues and criminal prosecutions for a felony in the region, and that is why the government says nothing. But it does not say anything about other strange amendments, which I cannot underestimate, Madam President. In Article 4 for complex tourist accommodation increases the possibility of selling the house. That is to say, it violates the principle of complex tourists and demonstrates to a stronger pole the residence, the real estate, and not tourism. It is a regulation at the expense of the tourist product that you have in Article 4, also saying that the owner will withdraw real estate. Tell me what is the way to withdraw from reality a building, which is both arbitrary and old and does not have energy security. How do buildings withdraw if not by demolition and complete restoration? It is photographic to regulate, but it is not easy to implement, because it has serious regulation problems. In any case, it favours the real estate but does not favour tourism. So is Article 5. Article 5 again comes to serve complex tourist accommodation by putting in the question of opening a road in a public forest. In other words, while the law has exceptionally accepted in private forests that there are complex tourists, now it says, I will also serve with an increase in rates - which you put in another article of the bill - housing in complex tourists and I will take off the public land to make the road. This is a very sensitive constitutional issue, which you did not bring to the Scientific Service of the House on purpose. In Article 6, the Ministry comes and recognises the possibility of additional spaces up to 7% - why not 5%? Why not 8% to put in outdoor tourist facilities in the auxiliary areas. Pools on the beaches? Are swimming pools in the cavalry, for which you have made an amendment with your MPs, so that they will not be demolished if they have final demolition operations? All of this is New Democracy, questions requiring environmental permits and not bringing them. On the other hand, it calls for an annual integrated management plan taking into account the management plans of the NATURA regions. What plans? What are you freezing? EUR 17.5 million has been awarded with a call for proposals within the NRP and for 2019 signatures, have been frozen and you are now saying that you will take them into account. Since you do not, you have them frozen and come to chapter c, in the building regulations, say that by personal judgment the ministers will specialize in quality and quantitative conditions. Minister, this says in practical terms: we will legislate and then you will make exceptions and do not apply the law. Without criteria, without conditions it is a window that cancels legislation. And you have another composite service in Article 35, where you say that there will be no architectural study, but a statement - if possible! - of the engineer. In Article 36 you change the kind of golf courses to get an exception and an increase in conditions of construction when you legislated another year ago. How good, after all, are you? In Article 37, you offer the composite tourists the conditions for organized tourist accommodation, i.e. the exceptional construction within the private forest and, indeed, for residence. You offer them conditions that we have in the organised areas of tourism development. All these are pictures and services, Mr. Kikilia. But what you do not answer is the serious problem of the Greek economy and Greek tourism. I'll deposit two accounts and close, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Colleague, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u240	Residence with 56 euros current...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u242	...has for a month an increase of EUR 161, a threefold cost, a 400% total cost, and a house of twenty-seven square meters...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Colleague, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u244	...with 76 euros current has a 141, 300% charge on the final account. The disastrous government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not respond to either Greek tourism or public health issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u246	On the contrary, he's hiding public documents. And they do have criminal political responsibilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u248	That is why this government must fall as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Colleague, I warned you three times. I think that the requisite respect for the Bureau - not for my face -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u250	I'm closed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u251	You haven't closed, Mr. Comrade. I beg your pardon very much, but I have warned you at the beginning of the sitting. The Members who have been registered are too many. Alas, if everyone takes so much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u252	It took two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u253	Please, Mr. Polakis! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u254	Please, me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u255	I beg you very much! The Bureau has a job to do. So please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u256	Everyone's gone over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u257	No one's been overtaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u258	Everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u259	No one, Mr. Polakis. I gave everybody a minute. Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u260	One minute and fifteen seconds it took.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Polakis, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u262	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u263	I'm recording time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u264	Please, me too. You underestimate our intelligence!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u265	Please, this cannot be overrun. Don't you understand? How many times are we gonna say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u266	No, we don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u267	If you don't understand, don't go to Stepma, Mr. Polakis. Time is seven minutes from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u268	All right, all right. And the others spoke for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u269	That's a nice way to talk, Mr. Polakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u270	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u271	That is a nice way of speaking to the Bureau. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u272	Sensitivity is selective.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Synatiakis, wait a minute, please very much. Mr. Polakis, where did you see her the selective sensitivity?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u274	How much did the previous ones talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u275	Where did you see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u276	How much did they talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u277	I want you to take the floor as a Member and say where you saw this selective behaviour. Please tell me which Member?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u278	Madam President, if you look at the times of the previous speakers, you will see that no-one has spoken exactly in the time that was on top. Nobody! And the first person you found to make the fuss was Mr. Famellos, who stopped instead of the seven minutes in eight minutes and twenty seconds. I was here watching it. So it's a one - minute and twenty - second deposition crime. For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u279	Well, for the name of Jesus Christ you referred to, Mr. Polakis, I'll report immediately to you the time to finish this story. Mr Himaras, who was a special rapporteur from New Democracy, spoke 15 minutes and forty-two seconds. Mrs Notopoulou from your party spoke twenty minutes and thirty-two seconds. Mr. Frankides spoke nineteen minutes. Mr Katsotis spoke seventeen minutes and fifty-seven seconds. Mr. Villardos spoke twenty minutes and Mr. Arsenis spoke nineteen minutes and forty-nine seconds. First speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u280	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u281	Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u282	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u283	So they've also taken from their denology, Mr. Polakis. You're an old parliamentarian, too. Please do not talk to me again, especially me, about selective sensitivity. Please, too! The previous Member, Mr Ljupes, spoke just eight minutes and said that there is tolerance, but please, we have a large list, time is seven minutes, try to keep it and you will also have tolerance from the Bureau. So please, I don't want to hear that again. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u284	It is well known to everyone that the most famous tourist development flourishes in conditions of over-exploitation of workers in tourism - food against self-employed micro-enterprises, free professionals, betting also on the deterioration of public tourist schools, the production of tomorrow's workforce as a cheap labour force without rights, allowances and hunger wages. When the bill refers to the in-depth study of the tourist market, the establishment of the Management and Promotional Organisations, for the Local Regional Observatory of Sustainable Tourism Development, means the Government means new business investments of high value added, secure provision of future trends, state funding for the promotion of the tourist product, as you call it. You give them all for even greater intensity of the exploitation of workers, mergers and acquisitions of tourist units, concentration of tourist pie in even less business hands and tour operators. Everything you plan, revolves around the motivation of capitalism, capitalist profit, enrichment. The tourist movement score for this year's season is close to the record numbers recorded in 2019. For example, receipts in Crete exceed EUR 2.5 billion compared with EUR 930 million in 2020. I mean, they're filled with the chests of the big landlords. However, it is not for everyone the same as for everyone else the tourist sustainable development you call on the bill is not the same. And one wonders: Where is the tourist miracle? The billions of euros that have been poured into the crisis, which was the golden age, have invested them in four-and-five-four hotels, enjoying favourable public regulation with tax exemptions and tax exemptions, new provocative incentives, a fatal EUR million for free tourist view by Ministries, resources of regions and municipalities from Community funding. Innumerable list of privileges and facilities! These new management organisations, as well as the Observatory, will strengthen these business objectives for new profits. Such a role is taken up by the new Developmental Organisations Anonymous Companies of the ATT in order to exploit themselves as a means of promoting and promoting the tourist product with citizens' money to gain access to areas and municipal properties. Developmental Organisations will be active in the role of small EOTs, public limited companies, to serve capitalist growth, competitiveness and profits of business groups, the promotion and promotion of the tourism product. The regions and municipalities themselves assume a role of ensuring the well-known tourist brand name and the safe destination as advertising and not as a reality, in line with the plans of the tourist capital. Hence the provision for a Public and Private Partnership at the level of the local and regional administration, which is similar to that of the Greek tourism sector, with the aim of promoting the Greek tourism sector by means of the commercial and commercial activities, as the bill says, i.e. with the money of the Greek people. These arrangements follow on from the allocation in 2020 and with the cocoon to the EOT’s business groups. You established the role of the "Marketing Greece" and the SETE as the main lever of our country's tourist promotion with the funding of the Greek State. For example, the Region of Crete provided for 2021 a million euro from its own resources, except for financing through the NRV 2014-2020. In 2022, other than own resources, will be provided for the tourist projection, plus those entered in the ESRB. Millions, i.e., euros for parasitic costs that are challenging, while the people pass on everything, while for health, education, welfare, a wild axe. On the contrary, when workers fight to improve their lives, government silence is deafening, as provocatively deafening is its silence in solving problems faced by public tourist schools and students. What to upgrade our tourist education, you tell us, what to ensure the public character of our schools. But I wonder who you are addressing. At the same time, however, you refuse to provide solutions to the accumulated problems of public tourism schools - such as the Agios Nikolaos Tourist School, the IKK Heraklion Public School in Kokkini Hani - creating conditions for the exclusion of students from the educational process in many ways, as well as the deterioration of public schools for the sake of private IK and colleges. More specifically, three months have passed since the earthquake in Crete, where the building at the hotel "HLIOS" in Hersonissos, the building of the former "XENIA", where the IEK is housed, was characterized as yellow, i.e. inappropriate. The building was before the earthquake. It was maintained by the workers themselves by their charity and by whatever means they had. To date there has been absolutely nothing about relocating it under exceptional procedures as required. The homeless problem, however, also has a chain of influence on students’ cultural rights, who are forced, once again, to attend their courses online. The students, in other words, learn confectionery and cooking through telephony and are not ashamed at all. The students will complete their studies without ever entering a workshop. And last year the courses were conducted by teleworking and thus doing their practice without a basic skill practice. Is that an upgrade of study? If we add the shortcomings to teaching staff, if we add the miserable infrastructure, the miserable logistics infrastructure, insufficient consumables, the lack of books, then we really are not talking about upgrading, but about conscious degradation. So behind fine words about upgrading is hard and mispaid work without any substantial benefit to knowledge and experience on the subject of studies. The monthly pay paid by students amounts to EUR 490, which is more like pocket money than salary, while they are only insured for the accident sector. And don't tell me about the APRD, which is going through the loss and the fall, and many times there are also several of them spoken. Students turn into kids for all jobs. The practice for many is translated into an endless glass of cutlery or potato cleaning. And I finalise with the manual treatment of the School of Tourism, Agios Nikolaos, which is the result of the devaluation and deterioration of public tourism education. The announcement of an extension to four years of the three-year ACE programs by joint ministerial decision on 30-12-20 was made a few days before the start of the course and the students of ASTEC who were three years old had already come to Agios Nikolaos, rented a home, did all the costs that this entails and expected to start the fourth year of study. And yet, a few days before the beginning of the course, they were told that the curriculum was amended and that registered students would follow the programme before the joint ministerial decision. These are the decisions of the government that downgrade tourist schools. They also do not have infrastructure. No student housing and feeding is available with the result that unreasonable costs are incurred for students-children in popular families. With all this, then, we call on you to proceed immediately to resolve the problems. Although the JRC has tabled questions and we have advanced to topical questions, the answers are deceptive not only to the JRC but also to the students themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be in my time. Don't worry. Gentlemen of the Government, the way the Zakynthos amendment is managed has once again highlighted your guideline on dealing with problems and policy planning. I will not go into substance because our rapporteur has been placed and we are obviously voting against. In June you moved it as an article, then withdrew it, because of the reactions, obviously, and you are reintroducing it as an amendment so that it does not become the subject of a wider debate and debate. And you didn't bother to explain why all this directing. I'll tell you: 'Cause you want the dog to be full and the pie all. And the cost of not suffering the government and what he wants to serve, achieve it. Now, what is it he wants to serve is a request. So far, I have charged the government with mislegislation on several occasions since this Step. Now you're moving on to a higher level, to wickedness in judging. You forget only one thing, that we are not at the juncture of your victory and your self-sufficiency. After two years, after half of your term, the years of innocence have passed for the government, and it will be good that all your actions will have sufficient justification and obey the unparalleled parliamentary rules. As far as the issue of the bill is concerned, it is clear that in our home country the tourist product is composed of the particular features of each region, its culture, its history, its heritage, its unrelenting environment, its nutritional model, an incredible variety of values, language, geography, sea, mountains, valleys, passages, history that cries out, in every inch of this country. This place is not developed by central decisions, it is not developed with isotopeic logics, it is not developed with aggregated models. The European experience is obvious. We like everyone to talk about it and talk about it. Someone who's taking a trip to Scotland can't afford to go to the castles. Someone who goes on a trip to Germany is not allowed to go to her medieval structures. Someone who's going on a trip to Italy, you can't let her go to the catacombs. And someone who goes to Switzerland can't afford to go to her lakes. This geography of Europe has highlighted the need for a Europe of regions and cities that has been set as a key objective from Lisbon since the 1990s. So let us take the Peloponnese, for example, and start with the bow that starts from Olympia, descends to Ancient Messini, passes through Mystras and arrives in Monemvasia. This region should be given a denomination in all respects, characterised at European and global level by the specific product it produces and that gives rise to competition and that brings quality tourism and that develops productive forces in each region around its development poles. You will tell me: 'Did you do it?' We did not do anything in the context of democratic planning. We talked about a product basket, we talked about regional partnerships, we talked about municipal markets, we talked about large local markets, we talked about a lot of things, we institutionalised them, many of them not actually implemented, and some of them that started, stayed in the middle. The state's discontinuity is the permanent wound to the political life of this country, because what is being institutionalised and progressive and is important and it is not right, either from the government itself - to take responsibility - or from the subsequent governments that have to start from the beginning to build the institutions. That is unacceptable. And it is unacceptable because it leads a step forward and three or four steps back. While it should lead with great speed in today's era to another model, to another democratic planning. We are talking today about tourism and regional development when a foreigner sees, for example, the mortality in our hospitals now with COVID being 57% in Athens, 66% in Thessaloniki and 70% in the province. I ask: If the Rhodes Hospital can't get what it needs to get, why should it have quality tourism on the island? What has the government done internally in order to enable each region to restore the necessary structures that will set up the tourist product with all its dimensions as a truly competitive and important product with a name? It is the fundamental difference between the centralised model of governance and the decentralised model that we believe is the only salvation for the country's development. It is the big difference, not because we disagree with the model tourist destination for integrated management, not because we disagree with the establishment of management and promotion organisations, not because we disagree with the establishment of a Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory, or with the establishment of a public limited company for thermal sources, but because we consider that the way you legislate them is precisely that you are simply transferring to a centralised model of governance: From the individual fragmented policies that you have used to us so far, you are moving towards an institutionalisation of a central state that just wants to control their resources and their implementation, their performance. For anyone who wants and who does not want can stay out of distribution and why there is no pre-budget - we have said so - a regional budget that gives the possibility, Mr Theochari, in all parts of the country, to have their own resources to develop the product, as they think. And why tourist units and tourist forces in each region have the potential and are very advanced, usually more advanced than our governments, so that they can develop this product and we do not give them the possibility either administratively or financially to pursue this tourism policy. So this institutionalism is not essential. And you are putting us in the difficult position to say that, obviously, we will vote for an institutional structure that is necessary, as we usually see these bodies being a little overlapping with each other. I cannot explain, however, why every regional administration, every regional government and every municipality separately, with planned resources to develop this policy. Because there is the logic of the central state that some people consider to be progressive, that we have a package that needs to be used quickly, that resources quickly go, that those who have to take them, because they can make foreign or large investments and that the history of development is over. It's not over, that growth goes backwards. Because it is not a linear development, ladies and gentlemen. The evolution of things is very complex and Greece is too rich in sources and forces to withstand such concentration.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill comes at a very critical time for Greek tourism. Although tourism showed us a slight recovery in 2021 compared to last year, however, far from the level of the pre-century period, new krone mutations can undermine any development plan and any good, if any, will. That is why the government has the full responsibility for it, because in the third and fourth waves of pandemic it has not managed to handle the situation at all. The Minister said that the bill has a purely developmental sign and, in particular, aims to further develop health tourism. It is ironic, therefore, that we have just tabled a question to the Tourism and Environment Ministers a few days ago about the need for a direct record of the country's health sources, on which basically our health or alternative tourism is based. I said, in particular, that although Greece has about seven hundred thermal and metallic sources located in geographical locations of particular natural beauty, many are still not even accessible to the public, while the valued and visitors are only about two hundred, that is, not even one third of them, and many have not even been officially recorded and recognized by the state. We have, for example, in the Messolonghi with the healing springs of its lagoon, with its healing mud that has done miracles, but also elsewhere, as scientific research has shown, the ideal conditions for developing such tourism. Where is the use of these natural infrastructures we have as a country? We must not forget a saying written by our ancient ancestors where healing waters existed: "Kell me a present". They wrote and meant a lot of it. Let's follow their tracks. So I ask, is this a serious situation? To talk about sustainable tourism - as the Ministry says - while at the same time we do not know how many and exactly where we have health sources as a country and the vast majority of what we know remains untapped? You will, of course, agree with me that we cannot talk seriously about the development of health tourism, when we have not yet taken the first step that is only the recording and utilization of the health sources of our country. Of course, I look forward to the answers from the main ministers in our question. These, ladies and gentlemen, I am not speaking in a sceptical fashion. I say them because we have dealt with the issue of health tourism and we have tabled, in addition to the questions of parliamentary control and related proposals for the development of this type of tourism, as well as for its link to the problems and rights of people with disabilities. And I would like to say a few things here and on this crucial issue certainly, because unfortunately, they are years and years that are provocatively ignored. Of course, a step has been taken, but it is not enough. We are talking about developing our tourism, but beyond predictions in the various bills on MEDIs, there is nothing going on about the right of these people to tourism, whether health or not. Main problems for these people, such as accessibility, stay on paper and prevent them from enjoying the beauty of our natural wealth. Also, the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, is the only political party that, with its programme, devotes dozens - without exaggeration - of pages to alternative tourism and should be considered by the government, because the purpose of our party is to improve the conditions of life for all of us, for every Greek and Greek. Should we not, as a country, promote the development of religious and pilgrimage tourism? It is a comparative advantage to our country and we propose it in our programme. The same applies to so-called agricultural tourism, which is directly linked to what our economy needs, that is, to the primary development of the Greek region. In this blessed place that has everything, it is paradoxical, therefore, that so many years have not become self-evident. I would like you to allow me a brief parentheses, one example. Countries such as Germany, which have ten species of herbs, are exploiting them for the benefit of their economy and they are doing very well. Our Greece, the blessed place I was saying, has three thousand herbs. Shouldn't strangers come to our units to admire and stay enthusiastic about this wealth? The same goes for gastronomic tourism, which could also benefit our tourism and our culture, for the benefit of our national economy. Our tastings, the unique Greek cuisine, which is a basic pillar of both our local identity and our cultural heritage, could highlight and promote our local products by geographical apartment. All this Greek Solution suggests, but the government ignores them. I want to think that's not on purpose, but that's what we call ruthlessness. In any case, however, it remains the fact that much more can be done for our tourism and, in particular, for health and alternative tourism. We have the comparative advantages as a country and we really must and can achieve it. We deserve it as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u289	Thank you too, my fellow Member, for the consistency in your time. Mr. Georgios Logiadis has the floor since Mera25. Here, Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law of the Ministry of Tourism was tabled on Friday 10 December and came to committee on Tuesday 14 December. Parliament's Rules of Procedure state that every draft law enters the committees one month after it is lodged. You have also circumvented the Rules of Procedure of the House. Another draft law was tabled for consultation, and we are debating it today. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I'll start by DMO, Destination Marketing Organisations. On July 14, 2021, recently, a few months ago, the EOT Association of Officials denounced the forced co-operation of the EOT with a private company that has neither the experience nor the veils of the EOT. And it goes on to say that the Greek Tourism Organization is the seventy-year-old public body of public promotion, advertising and public relations that has been magnified both inside and abroad by making known Greece. The normal aim should be to upgrade the regions and municipalities, upgrade them, become better and not further depopulate municipalities and regions. The Regional Tourism Council of Crete emphasises “do not abolish the regional tourism councils”. This one from Crete. The Greek Association of Business Operators also states that the professional associations of the main hotel accommodations as well as the professional associations of the non-main hotel accommodations should be involved by definition in these management and promotion agencies of the destination. As far as IT, the Viamatic Sources of Greece S.A., the company you are going to establish, there are three issues. Today's draft law is the fourth edition to be voted on following the intense responses of the OTAs, where there are health sources, the CEDEFOP, the Central Administration of Municipalities of Greece and the PPP, the Association of Municipalities of the Viamatic Sources of Greece. One S.A., one S.A. is not possible. judge healthier economic studies that are not part of their management. Constant tactics must be that the actors involved must be the local bodies, the municipalities, the communities of each region. In view of the fact that IP S.A. It will be responsible for managing, exploiting and effectively privatising a series of thermal sources which operate competitively with others, and in fact there is a serious problem of distortion of competition. This debate is becoming more intense when the financing of these investments comes to the table. A second issue raised by the CEDEFOP and the PPP, for which there is no clarification in the draft law, concerns the timely lack of a financial package for the development of the infrastructures of thermal sources. The development of the thermal source sector requires the existence of a financial programme from which TAs can draw funding, as much as their sources are all in the province and in these areas there are no investors for tourist activities. According to reports, investment in health tourism of EUR 28.5 million will be financed from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. The Ministry of Tourism must ensure that a satisfactory proportion of this amount is directed towards thermal infrastructure outside the IP, which is necessary if we want the benefits of the development of thermal tourism to be shared throughout the Greek province, instead of the creation of few large enterprises, oligopolists in the sector. A third issue that the OTAs raise concerns the fruitless efforts of a series of municipalities to date, such as Corinth, Zakynthos, Thebes, Ikaria, Rhodes, Kalymnos, in order to grant them the cayalus, since the natural resource, the healing water goes up on the beach. Without this concession, it is not possible to use the thermal natural resource and to create a business. Such a request is not dealt with in this draft law. As a follow-up to the three requests made by the CEDEFOP and the CEDEFOP. In any case, we are opposed to the creation of S.H.E., much more quid pro quo by considering the painful failure of S.H.I.E.D., as regards the management of the seven medical sources that it has recently assumed, a failure which warrants the assessment that these health tourism companies were driven to depreciation in order to divest themselves at a degrading price. Healing sources on the SWEDEN stock exchange and privatization have been launched. They are Kamenas Vourla, Thermopyles, Eidipus, Platistomo Cyclones, while "XENIA" and the healing source of Kythnos were privatized in the summer of 2021. Now, as regards Article 28 on the separation of the tourist port of Heraklion Crete, this morning I spoke to the Mayor of Heraklion, who points out that, yes, the municipality agrees, but in order for the Marina of Heraklion to become the marina of Iraklio in the Panghretio Stadium and nowhere else as a private investment. We, as Mera25, believe and fear that this article is a photographic article in favour of the company that was recently proclaimed the majority of the "RICH SA", a subsidiary of "AKATOR" in the tender for the privatisation of the area of the former Urnon US base. Here to say that for three hundred and forty - five acres, only 40 million were paid. It is an issue for which local society has really reacted, namely the low price. Article 38 refers to guides. The most important and strange point is the involvement of the police and PTS, regional tourism services only in the infringements of Article 4, that is, the non-world behaviour of those who are already on tours and therefore not for tours, rather than illegal tours. On the contrary, the amendments should aim to limit the phenomenon of illegal tours that it has received uncontrolled dimensions and not to mobilise the organs of EAS and PTS officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will close with ASTE, ASTEC and ASTER, Crete and Rhodes, and of course the IEK of Corfu, where without Schools of Tourism it is incomprehensible to have tourism throughout the year, as you want to say, and tourism claims. In Article 62, we also pointed out to the committee that the date normally for the audits by employees of the EOT, instead of 31 March, should be 31 December, that is to say, all year round. Minister, by closing down to say that from 2000 to 2019, revenues per tourist have fallen from 815 euros per person at 565.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u291	It was 520.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u292	In 2019 we have these data from SETE. This year we cannot compare it because this year is a short period, a high period. So we need to see over time how to deal with this problem of depreciation of our tourism. This must also be done for one reason above, because we have no staff to work on tourism, because there are no more stalks. We had this problem this summer. So these schools must be organised immediately and should not be deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr George Amanatidis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by saying that. The development of tourism in our country should be part of the overall planning for regional and local development, based on culture, the natural environment and the specific characteristics of each place. It should also be a local holistic design product, promoted by appropriate means and mechanisms, continuously upgraded and adapted, certified and integrated within a wider regional and national planning framework. In any case it should, of course, have as an environment and be dispersed from the concept of quality. A quality based on standards, certified and identified. The above elements systematically promote the present draft law that gives solutions - we have heard it in committee - to malfunctions and delays in time. It also provides prospects for a highly competitive environment within regions that identify them and between regions and internationally. The decentralisation of procedures and the strengthening of what we call subsidiarity, the active involvement of local societies and bodies, namely the local partnership, are key forecasts for improving terms and steps forward in achieving the objectives. The promoted concept of professionalism by all the articles of this draft law will enhance as is normal the competitiveness of the Greek local product and contribute as a result to the sustainability of tourist development. In particular now the forecast for standard tourist destinations for integrated management reflects the need for a holistic design that is, anyway, a one-way path. In addition, support for the tourism product and regions with corresponding infrastructures that will provide the required services and improve quality of life and accessibility confirm what I said earlier that the development of tourism is a process of regional and local development. The second regulation concerns the Management and Promotional Organisations of Destination and is a necessary intervention that will give added value to the design. The proposed entities, such as the Developmental Organisations of Local Government, the Development Anonymities of Local Government and, respectively, the urban non-profit companies are the point of convergence of the local partnership, thus improving the capacity of the local government itself. This is why it is clear that local government and local bodies as a whole are very active in this area. Their partnership will contribute to the integration of these regions into local development programmes managed by these bodies themselves with other activities in the same areas. In addition, the possibility of working with the private sector on development, visibility and co-management issues will act as they are prosperous in all sectors of the economy in the areas of integrated management tourist destinations. The provision for a three-year operational management plan with an annual allocation of actions puts the management effort on a professional basis, as I said earlier, and always in the light of the guidelines of the European Green Agreement to achieve the objectives of sustainable tourism development. The Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory is also an innovation. Why? Because it will propose targeted development measures in the tourism sector. It will help to monitor dynamically - and this is very important - and to evaluate the data of the region of interest and thus to draw conclusions on their improvement. It will integrate local strategies into their respective national and international strategies. It will work together and provide through it the area that we are interested in with national planning and similarly with the international network of Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory. Let's go see for the company "Iamatic Sources of Greece S.A.". This will include the use of thermal sources in an overall homogeneous management, exploitation and optimum exploitation of natural resources, i.e. the thermal sources that are public property. A single strategy will operate for the sake of the public interest and the rules of public undertakings. This is why the reference is made to Law 3429/2005. It is also foreseen - and this is very important for rationalisation - that land beyond its five hundred powers can be transferred to this company, of course, at the initiative of the operators themselves. And what's that company target? The company’s objective is to increase the value, improve the return on assets and generate revenues through independent operation on the basis of its applicable regulations. The initial share capital will be 5 million with the possibility of 20% being transferred to the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece two months after the entry into force of the law. In any case, the Greek State always predicts that the majority of the share capital will have it. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law also deals with other issues, such as the operation of tourist businesses, tourist facilities, visitability issues in various businesses such as brewery, olive groves, cheese houses with the award of the relevant trade mark, the issues of training and certification of the tour profession, the issues of the country's tourist promotion in cooperation with the private sector, the extension of environmental conditions, the award of an ‘Available Tourism Determination’ and ‘Available Tourist Business’ trademarks, and whatever it requires should be drawn up earlier. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are moving ahead with the interests of citizens, businesses, regions and our country, of course, in a very competitive environment where culture, the natural environment and quality have a dominant position. This is precisely the strategy with this draft law which I am voting for. Of course, with the adoption of this draft law, and on this occasion, Mr Minister, I, too, would like to highlight the coastal area of Polyfytos Lake with its Byzantine monuments and Velvetou respectively, the archaeological site of Ariane, the visits of wineries, the largest bridge in the country after Rio-Anirio 377 meters long. So, Minister, yes, this institution that is now being promoted already creates opportunities, broadens our imagination, our creative imagination, and highlights potential. That is why it is positive and productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u295	And we thank Mr. Amanatidis. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really would be blessed because you are perhaps the most important ministry in our country. It's our flagship. We will not be able to analyse everything we have in our minds as a Greek Solution - which is mentioned in our programme - because time is little. I'll make two, three references to tourism. According to the Bank of Greece figures, a tourist coming to Greece, Mr Kikilia, - and this must be changed in the future - from Germany, Italy, France, the United States from where this man comes, spends on average 67 euros. In other words, the tourist coming to Greece, the Bank of Greece tells us that it spends 67 euros. It's a painting, it'll be filed with everything in the Minutes. In Portugal, for example, Mr Kikilia, tourists spend about EUR 108 per day in France EUR 150 per day. All these tables will then be submitted to the Minutes and I would like my colleagues to take them into their hands to see how we envision tourism and where we want Greece to reach us. And we would also like that to be your goal, a glorious plan, to bring in strong bases for our country on the part of tourism. In 2019, tourism covered 11.6% of GDP and its overall contribution to GDP was 33.4%. In the next table I'm going to table in the Minutes, what does it say? In 2019 we had 17 million tourists. In the same year only the Cyanne Coast in France had thirty million tourists from the total of eighty-nine million tourists in a very competitive market. In the next table we're going to table in the Minutes, what do we see? That only 2% of arrivals, Mr. Kikilia, are from the United States. In other words, tourists who came to Greece and come to Greece only 2% are from the United States and China. In other words, two huge markets in the population and we have not spread our nets there as we should. Why would it be only 2% over there? It's all paintings. You know, the chronic problems of tourism unfortunately - I hope you will solve them - have not yet been solved. It's just things like poor, very poor infrastructure in relation to competition, streets, ports. We don't even have marinas. How do we get tourists with fat wallets? We just call it, fat wallets must come to Greece. On the world map fillet, which is Greece, fat wallets must come. There is no good staff training, which is another matter. In summary, I do not have time to analyse them today. We are a country that provides a great basis for tourism income, but it does not have schools to train executives and staff as it should have meant that the service does not have to be what it should be. We don't have facilities, for example, for sports tourism. We don't even have golf. Golf brings twelve months of tourists and thick wallets. Twelve months, i.e. it brings people out of a high season and people that it has and can spend money. We have not succeeded - this is a major problem - to build Greece a 12-month destination. The tourist season lasts a hundred and sixty days, that's it. Whoever saw the Lord before. Apart from Athens, it's not considered any other city - that's what it's called - City Brake. No other city in Greece except Athens bears the title City Brake. It's all cities that will work three or four months this summer, and that's it. There is this in Europe. In other words, there are cities that, apart from the capital, have 12 months of tourism, such as Barcelona, Milan, Bridge, Munich, many examples. We haven't been able to fly a lot of flights in relation to competition. In Turkey and Spain the planes really go and come. I would like to say that in the area of tourism, Mr Kikilia, because it is a very sensitive and important issue, we do not have a opposition or a fight. This is where we bring proposals. I think you know that too, because you're a young man, younger than me. I want you to see it warmly. It's four-five pillars basic to develop this field. Five things we've actually talked about. Why should the tourist pay EUR 67 according to the Bank of Greece and not pay 100, such as in Portugal? That's what I mean. Now, Mr President, since we are talking about tourism, an important income, I cannot, because two days ago we were discussing and talking about the budget here in the Greek Parliament, not to say: Minister, you may be young at age, but you are barbecued in politics too, and I want to give you some information in your mind, because I do not know what we are doing in here, but the picture out there is not good at all. You have voted for a budget which is mainly based on tax increases. But according to the figures from the Independent Public Income Authority - I am buying the ADI data - in October, then, about six hundred thousand Greek taxpayers, says ADI, left unpaid taxes. They're new, fresh, plus six hundred thousand, that is. That is, of the three million six hundred and fifty - three thousand Greeks who could not pay increased the number to four hundred and ninety - two thousand. In October, taxpayers who were unable to meet their tax obligations increased by 17.4%. It is almost 110 billion in debts right now. Half Greeks, always according to AIA and not according to the Greek Solution, owe taxi. And as the situation develops, because badly lies, economics and health are the two main pillars that are currently being shaken out in society, the economy and health. On the one hand, they don't have any money, on the other, they're terrified. So these two are concerned with the world, society. And if we want to listen to society, we need to talk about these issues. Six hundred and thirty-five thousand new LNGs didn't pay. Why? Why are professional jams? Why do they like to shoot? Obviously not. It's a matter of choice. Just kids, and we live in society. "When did I pay 100 euros gas and pay 380?" - I've got to pay, but how's people gonna pay? - So he makes a choice. He says to you, "I will not pay the tax, to pay PPC, to pay for my child's school, to pay the electricity." He makes a choice, i.e. it's a matter of choice. So he's forced to be a bad payer. In the period of January-October 2021, all new public debts from taxes that are not paid are 4.3 billion euros. They're incredible numbers. People can't pay, they're shearing. In the Minutes, all the evidence as soon as I'm done. You said in the debate on the budget, we heard a number of your own Members, that what you say we have the most expensive fuels, etc. We have the most expensive gasoline in Europe after the Netherlands, Finland, Iceland and Norway. In the Minutes later, it's a plaque, it's all. Fuel prices last week throughout Europe. Why should we pay 71 minutes in the litre of excise duty and plus 24% VAT? These are things that cut our knees. Only Hungary has 27% VAT, it passes us, that is, 24%, Denmark and Croatia, which have 25%. All other countries, Minister, have lower VAT than Greece, 24%. I'll testify the painting in the Minutes. It's a source, evidence from the Commission. Why would that happen? This is how Greece kneels. When Turkey has even 1% VAT on some products. You were talking about HICPIA. You say "we've reduced HISPHIA. We have said it, we have done it." What did you do? You did a hole in the water. We'll tell you why. The numbers say other things. In 2020, the Greeks paid ENVY 2 billion 558 million. In 2021 they will pay 2 billion 587 million or by 0.01 more! So what'd you fall? The numbers come in the same way and a little bit more. It's official evidence. I said at the beginning of my speech, Mr. Kikilia, and I mean you should feel blessed about being in this ministry and this tourism portfolio. I really hope that you will pay for our Greece to go ahead, because it is a great card for our Greece. Of course, because, as a Parliamentary representative, you will allow me to refer to some health-related developments, you have also gone through the health section. And you spent a lot of time, because it was the period when an invisible enemy appeared and you, like everyone else, were invited to deal with him. You know seven and a half thousand people, Minister, flying around the corner will make black holidays. Seven and a half thousand sanitaries are still from the government - I wonder where the government will get it - in an obsessive and vengeful way to have these people outside. They're seven and a half thousand families, not atoms. Each family can have three or four people, here we are talking about thirty thousand people. Black feasts, they haven't worked for five months. At the same time, in hospitals, they say that you are trying as a government to replace them with unskilled personnel. They are the so-called contract workers, a new "fruit" what has come from outside with 580 euros a month full time. Something's wrong. Last week we had 61.9 deaths per million citizens with a vaccination rate of 68%. Lithuania and Latvia with the same rates of vaccinated subjects had 38.6 deaths per million. Sweden, which did not make Lockdown - the disastrous lockdown, which disastrously disastrous the economy and afflicted Greece with 43.3 billion - has always opened up its economy, with 71% fully vaccinated Sweden, 5% above us, had 3.6 deaths per million. It's bad to talk about these things, but there's some evidence that they're saying and shouting for themselves that something's wrong, that something's wrong with you as government. Attachments to countries with close rates of vaccination and death tables per million for the Minutes. We all have it here. That's what the numbers say. I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. Once again, when you were Minister and you, the government, the health professionals, the experts, you brought them freedom and told them: "Be inoculate yourself to protect you and take your life back". Today we are learning by an oral government representative, Mr. Economou, that the vaccinated also never celebrates. They'll pay the tests, too. It's right to test. We've been yelling for months. Vaccinated, unvaccinated test. It breaks down your record that it's the pandemic of the invaders. Oh, no. The pandemic is all about the world. Whether you're vaccinated, or you're unvaccinated, you're gonna get a lot more ill, as the experts say, but how do we transmit the virus here? You transmit it either you're vaccinated or not. So what were we talking about? Tests, but free test. The state must provide free tests to its citizens, to stop finally sticking to each other. Free. You didn't tell the truth in the world, and that's what it looks like. You might sometimes lie because you're a professional liar or to cover something. The lie is going to tell you sometime, but the lie is always revealed and the truth always wins. Now everyone's gonna pay. What are you going to tell the people you told them, "Get your life back"? You told him second, you told him third, and now you're making him pay ten euros for the rapid test. It had to be free, but for everyone. We were shouting it's not the pandemic of the invaders. You poorly separated Greece in two, and so forth, the typing and the good ones. It's not like that. The dispersion may be due to everyone. So what do we care? Stop the dispersion. How? With continuous checks and a continuous test. Ladies and gentlemen, are we young people, can we go get our drinks in a bar and have three hundred people inside and because they're vaccinated? Buttruli's wedding is happening. It sticks with each other. There's no way. You'll tell me that they might not be severely ill. I wish they wouldn't get sick at all. But they're transmitting it? Helping disperse? Therefore, the measure was wrong. Now to get into the bars, you're doing a test, whether you're vaccinated or not. There's this paradox with the study. I think you were in the ministry in May. I don't know. Did you pick her up? Did you know her? No one's answered us yet. I repeat: two things are of concern to the Greeks right now. One part is health, and the world has been terrified. The other is the economy. People see their wallet empty. You failed both in the health part and in the economic part, and we proved it here today with papers, tables and evidence. The Greek is now poor, without money, without good psychology, without a smile. You got his smile, though, mostly. He's terrified, and without a smile, and that's why you're solely responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The speaker of the New Democracy, George Kotroyas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given the durability of our tourism during the pandemic, today the need for armouring and strengthening the tourism product is urgent in order to enhance its competitiveness and avoid the chronic failures of the past. In these modern needs of a sustainable tourism product, the Ministry of Tourism comes to respond with a purely development bill aimed at strengthening the country's tourist image, making use of all its potential and its geomorphological wealth. The first part of the bill concerns the model tourist destinations for integrated management, which will use the comparative advantages of each region to achieve high rates of tourist development, as well as the management and promotion organisations through which a framework of cooperation is established between the central administration and local government, in order to facilitate the design and implementation of important actions aimed at promoting the development of our country. The organisations of the management and promotion of destination in the areas designated as standard tourist destinations are also required to establish a Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory to study the tourism market and propose targeted developmental measures, as well as to cover the lack of reliable data on tourism. Finally, in order to carry out the work of each destination management and promotion organisation, it may co-operate with professional associations of persons, enterprises and private sector bodies, with tourist organisations and agents, as well as with cooperative business formations, so-called clubs, with a view to ensuring the quality of the tourist product offered. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as - let me say - and all the bills that we have passed these two years contribute to modernising the state by putting our country in a favourable development environment. But that's not all. All the state mechanism at all its levels must be able to apply these laws that we are voting on and produce results. I say this because, having participated as mayor in the link between the municipalities of thermal sources of Greece and my current institutional position, I am well aware of the problems and delays in the recognition of sources, as well as the difficulties in financing studies and development proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that apart from the good legislature - which I believe we have been doing all these years - the whole mechanism must work. I will give you a specific example regarding the thermal sources of Kallidroux, the so-called Psororororias that are outside Lamia, and which in 2014, after negotiating with the Greek Tourist Real Estate, now called the Real Estate Company, the EBRD, we agreed to be granted to the municipality of Lamies for twenty-five years and we signed the relevant agreement. By changing the municipality in 2015, this agreement was not activated and remained inactive until now. Well, that's all right. Today, with the agreement of the current municipal authority, I asked the EBRD to activate the old contract or new conditions to become a new one, so that a useless property for the Greek public property, which only creates problems for it as a dump, can be exploited and emerged in the best way and instead of problems bringing revenues to the Greek public, which will use an unpaid property, while at the same time contributing to the development of the municipality and the region for the benefit of our society. For unexplained reasons to date, this company, which is obviously intended to make use of public property, has not proceeded with any action in this respect. Even if it does not agree with the contract signed in 2014, I think it is a self-evident obligation to inform a Member of the Greek Parliament of its intention to renegotiate it or finally to conclude its plan for a different way of exploiting this property of the thermal sources of Kallidro. I'm waiting. Another example of the operation of the development structures, which seems to have a happy ending, is the thermal sources in Kamena Vourla, where I had repeatedly submitted a proposal to TEAD for a continuously deferred competition for the “Galen” complex under the clause that the contractor to take over by the “Galen” must also be required to operate the Hippocrates hydrotherapy which gives life to the small hotels in the region. At our last meeting with the current CEO of HIDE I was informed that authorisation from the Environmental Licensing Department was pending, which was finally achieved and I am pleased today, because it seems to me that the Kamena Vourla and Thermopillas notice will finally proceed. I'm coming back to the bill. In particular, I will dwell on the second part of the present, as I consider the establishment of the public limited company called "Illicial Sources of Greece S.A." is an essential step for the development of health tourism in the country. And in the past I have referred to the successful consultation of the Ministry of Tourism in the study and recommendation of "EPE SA" with the Association of Viamatic Sources of Greece so that local government continues to have the first reason for exploiting the thermal sources within its limits. The establishment of an anonymous company by the Ministry of Tourism, I think, is in the right direction, so that, in a flexible way, the recognitions of all the thermal sources can be promoted quickly and that it is possible to accelerate the production of investment projects, the construction of projects and, in general, the leverage of funds specifically for the thermal sources of national importance, as well as the sources of local importance exploited by the municipalities of the country. This is due to the fact that, with the existence of the special operating mark, the CouncU's assent is needed, in order for the source to be included in the "UPE SA" and in all other cases within six months of the law being passed, municipal councils will be able to adopt decisions to make use of their sources and will then have four years to submit an economic study of an investment plan of the thermal resource at the "EPE SA" and a total of ten years to complete the recovery projects from the adoption of a relevant decision. With all this in mind, I think that the way to make quick use of our country's thermal sources is finally opening, giving perspectives to one of the most important forms of alternative tourism so that, ladies and gentlemen, we finally take advantage of the gold that nature has given us and which we have insisted for years on leaving him buried and untapped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u299	And we thank Mr. Kotroya. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make a few comments about what I have heard from SYRIZA Members about our tourism plan. I was really surprised at all that I was hearing, that - he says - we did not have a plan for tourism, that we left workers at random, that we threw them out of the Unemployment Fund, that we did not fund the businesses. Excuse me, do we live in the same country? Do you live somewhere else? Does your anxiety about the demographic findings lead to such designations and such use and alteration of things? Do you not know that there were measures to protect workers during the pandemic and in tourism and everywhere? Do you not see the performance for tourism in 2021, but also 2020 compared to other countries? What do these figures show, that we went badly, that we opened without a plan, that we don't know what we're doing in tourism, that we left people in their luck? Two months ago we voted in favour of the regulation for fifty-five, the reduction from a hundred to fifty. We're leaving people in their luck? Read the comments of the foreign type of organizations and those who came to our country about how well the country was doing. You have spoken about rotation in the measures that lack of a plan. We have said so a thousand times that the phenomenon is dynamic and, depending on the time, we are adapting the situation. It concerns a health crisis and these measures must be proportionate at the time. It can't be some measures for two, three, four, five months all the time. Be critical, but on the specific and actual facts. Like the one we heard about the shipwreck amendment. I guess the spokesperson of Mera25 liked you. Because I read it and asked my colleague from Zakynthos if it is the same amendment as the summer that was in the consultation. No relationship. What's he saying here? It is this region - it says - model tourist area for the development and protection of tourists, for all kinds of administration and management. It was commissioned by a model tourist development committee composed of Region of Ionian Islands, Municipality of Zakynthos, hotel clubs, Chamber of Zakynthos. Is that the privatisation? And why is that so? So that it can be legally protected and created concerning the safety of visitors, accessibility to the area and protection of all these things there. Is this about what we're talking about? Looks like he got you guys carried away. It's okay, sometimes that happens. And Mr. Scandalidis mentioned it. You probably didn't read the amendment. It is good before you place it, read it. And I would remind you that the newspaper reports during the committee showed the problem that was created there with so many measures, with the problems it had with the shipwreck, that parts were removed and intervention was necessary. The Ministry of Tourism came and immediately made the intervention. I really don't understand what's happening or not reading or having affected you so much this popular decay that you're in trouble. And you know what? We're talking about tourism. Tourism for our country is one of the most important tools for developing the economy, perhaps the greatest advantage compared with the rest of Europe, but also at a global level. However, it has been said too many times and in practice it is also seen that despite Greece's supremacy in tourism due to natural advantages and infrastructure, our country has not been able to obtain 100% of its benefits. In other words, to give it figures and make it understandable today that tourism in terms of GDP reaches 25% either directly or indirectly and still does not participate in 100% of all the tourist destinations in all the regions of the country. And to say it more correctly, they don't participate to the extent that they could be involved. I am obviously talking about alternative forms of tourism. I believe that no one disagrees that our country has more scope for developing the tourism product. This is what we in the New Democracy believe can be done through a coherent, comprehensive plan that will contribute to the organisation, the settlement - if you like - of the promotion and development of the tourist product of all our regions and all kinds of tourism that we have. With this specific draft law, we are working on this and we want to give this sector this impetus. At the meeting of the committee, the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Kikilias, gave us an extremely interesting element that helps us fully understand the image of tourism and the great potential for development that still exists. So the Minister said - if I understood it correctly - that 25% of the country that comes directly or indirectly from tourism is a result of the tourist product of the two and a half regions of the country. Of course, we are only talking about summer mass tourism. So consider where tourism can get as the driving force of the economy and as a pillar of growth if we organise, if we take advantage of all their aspects, giving supplies to other destinations, winter, healing, religious, gastronomical, which clearly have a step - satisfactory I would say - but we can understand the enormous margins that we can have there and there are untapped sides, mainly because of the lack of visibility and visibility, or the incoherent relationship of the tourist features that a region has, but also of fragmented management. I would like to be understandable, giving an example, the example of Pella, which I represent. It is a prefecture with countless comparative advantages, with rich history, with intense archaeological interest. It is the ancient Pella, the place that was born and raised by Alexander the Great, with excellent winter destinations, Edessa or Kaimaktsalan and Voras, one of the most organized healing destinations in Europe, Pozar's Lutras, but also religious tourism. The figures show, however, today that they do not communicate with each other, thus depriving the region and the need for a full tourist product with what this implies for residents, professionals and the local economy. It is an issue that we have discussed with the Minister, Mr Kikilia, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Zacharakis. I would really like to thank them for their interest, and I think we can reverse the current situation in Pellas with this bill because it will give us tools that can reverse this situation. The same, I am sure, can be done in the rest of the country. That is why the Ministry of Tourism goes ahead with this draft law which, through the association of forces, aims to boost our tourism development, upgrade the quality of our tourism product. I think you have seen very well the provisions concerning the establishment of destination management organisations, the creation of model tourist destinations, the establishment of an effective framework for the use of thermal sources of 23 million from the Development Fund. It is of particular importance to professionals in the sector that the payment facility for the "Tourism For All". Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to focus on the thermal sources of our country and say that neither the interests of the municipalities nor the private professionals we have heard in committee are affected. You will allow me to thank the previous leadership of the Ministry of Tourism and today, because they have heard, discussed and understood that it is not necessary to adopt the forced incorporation of the thermal sources into this new company. We are therefore giving municipalities the tools to develop healthier sources more and also enable them, if they cannot, to join this anonymous company and take advantage of all the possibilities that it provides. It is true that the health tourism of our country has too much scope for development. We have unique medical destinations. We can example from the foreign countries that have developed them. We really can perform exceptional miracles with this regulation introduced by the bill. Mr President, the vote of today's draft law is a vote in favour of tourism and the people who work there and put their minds to it. It is also an important step towards strengthening the already strong and almost uncompromising weapon that is its natural beauty, its special features, locations and destinations, its rich history and its invaluable cultural heritage. Of course the special and hospitable people. New Democracy had already developed and presented a comprehensive plan for changing tourist model by focusing on the objective of the overall use of all comparative advantages available to our country and the upgrading of our tourism product. This program today's government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, implements it step by step by step, drawing on our vision of a Greece for strong growth that benefits all Greeks and all Greek women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u301	The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor now, Mr Stefanos Gikas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a comment, of course, listening to her, a colleague of course, SYRIZA's rapporteur. In fact, the way he spoke and the arguments he put forward reminded me, because we are in the curbati, the small SYRIZA of 4%. In fact, if, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will, in my view, continue with this policy very soon, you will be at 4%. I am starting on this. Tourism is undoubtedly a basic size of the Greek economy since it participates by 20% to 30% in the formation of GDP. At the same time, it is the basis for many local economies, like my own region, the constituency of Corfu, which almost all professions, all professional sectors, in alpha or beta, have to deal with tourism. At this point I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Kikilia, for bringing this bill, as well as the former Minister, Mr Theocharis, because his contribution was indeed great. I would also like to thank Mr Kikilias for having solved an important problem that we had in Corfu with the address of IEK tourism. It did give an important solution. The draft law sets out the framework for the establishment of a strategy for sustainable tourism development. It introduces the model tourist destinations for integrated management that are areas that are dynamically contributing to strengthening our tourist image. They have elements such as their international recognition, unique physical and cultural features, the possibility of hosting a significant number of visitors, accessibility for HEIs and others. The designation of a region as a model tourist destination is, of course, made by a ministerial decision at the request of the municipality to the relevant address of the Ministry. At the same time, the draft law provides for the establishment of management and promotion organisations, known as DMOs, Destination Management Organisations, created by the development agencies of local government or by existing OTA development anonymities. The aim of the organisations is to contribute to the scientific, advisory and technical support of the Local Government bodies in matters relating to the promotion, development and promotion of the tourist destination as well as the implementation of a marketing and tourist promotion strategy. The organised promotion of the tourist product is implemented on two levels. The EOT manages and promotes our national tourism product while local government undertakes to promote local tourism products with the state, of course, to lay down the frameworks and rules. An additional tool to contribute significantly to sustainable tourism development and promotion of the tourist destination is provided through the possibility of operating the DMOs. I would say very important and decisive for the effective functioning of the DMOs is the possibility of working with the private sector. In this way, it promotes the creation of a group of local society and professionals in the tourism sector, so that they can take joint action. The establishment of agencies is an important legislative initiative that was missing from the country's tourist map. In order to function in the most effective way possible, however, I would ask, Minister, with your ability and experience, to see some points which, I am sure, will be included and resolved by ministerial decisions. Firstly, at a time when all digitised, we have to bear in mind that soon both DMOs as an object and a practice will have a strong digital dimension. The management and promotion of the tourist destination will be carried out in a digital way, which should be taken into account in the implementation of the law. Secondly, we must ensure that the agencies are as flexible as possible. For example, the compulsory deposit of the three-year integrated management plan in the relevant Interministerial Committee should not evolve into a timely bureaucratic process. In addition, DMOs should be able to act and react autonomously in unforeseen situations, for example COVID. Thirdly, some difficulties may arise, I would say, in the application of the quota, in the financing of the transfer. In some actions, for example, one place to put the economic part, another place to put the material. It's the Barter type, as these are called. I'm sure that this Finally, we need to see further - and other colleagues have said so - the question of funding the DMOs at both the first level, namely initial funding and, of course, the continuing financing of fees. It was put on the table to get some percentage of the residence tax, for example. Continuing very quickly on the bill, I believe that it is worthy of special mention of the introduction of the new trademarks in the context of the promotion of alternative forms of tourism. There are therefore signs of a visiting brewery, oil mill, which are very important, because it broadens the link between the primary sector and the production of local products with tourism, which is demanded and which we certainly welcome. In the same direction, the new signals for accessible destinations, the accessible tourist business and the pet-friendly tourist accommodation are also available. I look at Article 11, although the procedure for vocational training programmes is very important, to be consistent in time. I close by stressing that the draft law sets out the framework within which our tourism will develop further and on a healthy basis. It focuses on sustainable tourism development. It introduces the tools for more efficient management and promotion of tourist destinations, and in conclusion it has been a provocative desire of our tourism industry that our Government finally does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u303	The speaker of SYRIZA-Progressive Alliance, Paul Paul Paulakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today I will not speak as a Member or as a former Deputy Minister of Health. I'll speak as a former mayor, because once mayor, always mayor. And I will start from this unacceptable thing that you have done, which is about the amendment concerning the Zakynthos shipwreck area. And because you must not become "motorways" of a procedure I will say it quickly. This story is a long time ago and my old student, Mr. Akiupis, listens to me. In 2014 a guy with an intransigent Venetian document sold fourteen thousand seventeen hundred acres, all the mountains they call there in Zakynthos, in the omere of Qatar. Fourteen thousand seven hundred acres. It's like I went out to say that the plain of Frangokastello belonged to my eight-time-grandfather, who had passed through there the Venetus and sold it to the omere of Bahrain. That's what happened there. While there are two hundred families, there are two monasteries, there are eight and a half thousand acres of land, etc. There is a fuss, there is a big davantour, there is court proceedings for the inhabitants of the Church there and a decision is made in June 2020, which speaks of felony acts and that this is not the case. And be careful now. We have from June 2020 - and now ends in 2021 - and the prosecutor does not go any further on this procedure, in order to proceed with the final judicial solution. Because it's a fake contract, it doesn't exist. It doesn't go any further. If I say now that justice is being delayed on purpose, am I interfering with the work of justice? Say it to you and tell us what the government is doing. And while there is this judiciary, Mr. Theocharis brings the project "Navy S.A.", where the company that was supposed to be part of Qatar's emir is seen in some offshore companies - for "PIMANA" - I say, which took the fourteen thousand seventeen hundred acres - seems to have it, it appears that a Buluta is in its board of directors who are in "ELLAKOR" and a Mr. Mylonoyannis who is the president of this company. I'm not saying anything that's wrong. Don't move your head, Mr. Cape.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u305	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u306	Don't move your head. You account for the Zakynthians. It seems that this company is leaving the Qatar emir, it seems that it has a board of directors of these two, Bouluta of "ELLAKOR" and Mylonoyannis, adviser to Prime Minister and president of the company, and is coming here, while there is this judiciary. Mr. Theocharis brings the bill for "Navyos S.A.", an anonymous company that takes this area that is the shipwreck and the Porto Otto and an area above it, to make real-estate projects. There's a fuss coming from there, you pull that back, and now this thing seems like it. A committee, which will take over in the name of the destruction of the shipwreck and the greens, and will not join together and say about the eagle zone and the beach extending 15, 20, 30 meters above the cliff's eye. In which area of Greece when you have a beach, a cliff, you have a beach up here at 200 meters high? Where's that? Tell me, too, 'cause I don't know. We have cliffs in Crete, but beach zone doesn't exist if it has mountain above. Beach zone. Another hayaloo, another beach. That he's gonna take advantage of the area there. And you're bringing this thing now. You're not telling me, Mr. Kicilia. What is more important - both are very important - not to destroy the Zakynthos shipwreck or to build the Corinth Canal which has been closed for over a year and a half? Is it not there that desire, poorness, and you and Mr. Theocharis, are not enough to go ahead with the procedures to open up? That's where the Ministry of Infrastructure took over to run a competition, the one he did, with the invitation to negotiate? To take over as a Ministry of Tourism if it is such a poor thing for you to do the same thing as the Ministry of Infrastructure in the Corinth Canal. Where we're closed. Here's a parentheses. Can you imagine whether we were government and lost the summer season of the passageway of all the tourist ships from the Corinth Canal? What would you have done? They would have hung the "Pophantines" from the bridge and taken the booms that would have fallen down, as they did with something ATM. Now it's not running chestnut. That shipping has changed, that transport costs have increased, that sailing tourism or inflatable inflatables cannot pass have been destroyed, nothing is wrong. That's where you don't get the poor thing. Why don't you make a Canal Management Committee there, make the greens fast? To be serious now. You could well do what you say and give it to the committee to do by the municipality of the region. And if the mayor doesn't make it to the Zakynthians. The mayor will do it, and local communities will do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u307	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u308	I as Mayor of Sfakion with much less potential than the municipality of Zakynthos have built many port projects that have restored losses from winter theories. And I did it in collaboration with the port fund of the Municipality of Chania. The Municipality of Platania, on the top, did a huge work financed by the Ministry of Rural Development, with the agreement of the Ministry of Shipping that cancelled, reversed the process of desertification of the beach in Kolymbari. There's been such a project there. The municipality does this work well. He's doing fine. And it's a big project, that one. Now the beach was rebuilt where it was removed and was only rocks due to the way the first port of Kolymbari was built twenty years ago. And the port was rebuilt and rebuilt with the seams that went in front and changed the flow of streams and let only accumulate sand and not leave as before. So he could do it well. Here - and that's clear - there's the fillet that's on the eyebrow and some people want to eat it. That's the story. What I'm saying is that. That's the junk. It will be cancelled and the beach zone that on this basis is supposed to be the basis for building this committee to function and produce the studies and to do and show. It's gonna be canceled, and it's all in the air. From what I saw, there is a very large wave of reaction from both the Greek American and Zakynthos. It's not going to go any further, Mr. Kikilia. Don't connect your name to that. I want to say two more words about the bill. And thanks for the tolerance. I'll say it very quickly. Mr Kikilia, the second thing you do and which is photographic is the amendment, namely Article 8 in the amendment, which talks about the expropriations of the beach. Do you know what you're doing here? This is a photographic device to serve some major hotels. Because between the cavalry zone, where the winter wave arrives, and the beach zone, which is obviously in front of some hotels and in which they have property rights on the basis of the way they were made up of old others, you actually give the hotel owners the opportunity, because it has to do with who is using the umbrellas, if there are any canteens, if there are any marine sports facilities, etc., and you are effectively pushing these small and medium-sized ones out of the exclusive management and the beach zone from the hotel or hotels above. It's completely photographic and it's an amendment. Knowing that there will be extremely great reactions, because the social contract of the previous period allowed many small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece to take a piece of the pie of the tourist product and through these forms. And the last thing I want to say is about the medical sources. Refuse the strategy that we have implemented and proceeded with in many municipalities with the special operating mark with the Ministerial Decisions of SYRIZA and Ms. Koundoura, then Minister of Tourism, for the use of thermal sources. Listen, it's another thing the natural water resource that erupts the land in which it erupts. Why do you give the anonymous company that is going to be in Athens, and will it do well to make use of the sources? Courgettes with the oregano will do, as did ETAB and TIAD in relation to the sources it owns. Here in Athens, he's going to say about the medical source that's there, and I don't know where? It's just a "decoration" that's the story. He'll get, he says, five hundred meters around the source. Why would he take it? What for? We had drawn up a different path of exploiting these. Too many municipalities had gone through this and asked for financial instruments. For example, the "PARANEK"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u309	If they want to. We don't oblige them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u310	Yeah-yes, if they want to. Here you take it from them, they don't want it. This is the retreat you made in relation to the original plan. The junk is, when you block him, you'll force him to go in the arms of these people. And 20% that has no serious role is the cheese to grab his fortune. Too many municipalities and the "PAENEC", which you did not go through with other programs of "Philodimos" that could have come in, had proceeded with the exploitation of the property, so take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u311	Finish this, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u312	I'm ending up with a word. Today in Chile he was elected left president. In Chile, not the descendant of Pinochet, was elected left president. His first statement was that he would abolish the private insurance system that Pinochet applied and which you are bringing now. And we in the first bill, what we're going to abolish, that's gonna be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u313	Thank you. Mr Dionysios Apepi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll ask for your tolerance for a while. Besides, I'm happy to speak after my colleague, Mr. Polakis. For the time economy, although we are dealing with a bill which has very important provisions in the right direction, I shall refer directly to the issue at issue, as a MP in Zakynthos. This is the matter of the shipwreck. The shipwreck, as you know, has been in a position forty years, but no one has been interested in solving the problem and the ship that is dissolving but at the same time being able to resolve issues that have to do with the safety of visitors. No one really can think about what damage we will suffer if we lose this particular sight that exists in the region. It will be a loss to Zakynthos, but more generally to Greece. There are not even the necessary security measures in the area. And it is an area that millions of tourists visit each year. You should know that they have lost four to five people in the region, with what this means for the loss of human life, but at the same time also for the fact that there is a defamation about the fact that this destination is not safe. It is incomprehensible for people to be in danger at all times and at any time to fall into the gap. It is inconceivable that there is no way out of this area. Again in two years, we are trying to implement and make this way of escape so that the shipwreck can be safe in the event of fire. So, we're trying to put a class on the shipwreck. There is no longer any room for blockages and for other actions. From the first time I took office, you should know that one of the first visits to Ministries was in the Ministry of Tourism. I told the then Minister, Mr. Theocharis, and the Deputy Minister, Mr. Consola, that we are in danger of losing a sight, second to visit, because the wave is destroying it and taking it, as forty years there has been absolutely nothing. It was previously heard by Mr Polakis and by many the question why he was not given to local government. So, listen: Since 26-32020 there is a letter from the Ministry of Tourism in which, apart from the rest mentioned, it concludes: "In this direction, the Ministry of Tourism invites you to take over the implementation of your proposals as regards the safety of tourists in both the area above the Shipwreck and those on the beach of the area". This has been since March 2020. There are two municipal councils that happen. One, one, on 1 June 2020, where there was a small mess, did not pass the proposal of the mayor who wanted to have another in management. The municipal council took a decision with an overwhelming majority which says that security measures should be taken in the Navy area, direct actions to safeguard the municipality's property in the wider area, a study to manage and exploit the wider Navy area leading to the proposal to set up a management body with the participation of the municipality, the Bolimon community and the neighbouring communities. There was another decision again, of 18 November 2020. No implementation. I inform you that the municipal councillors of the opposition have appealed to the decentralised decision-making of the municipal council. What do you want us to do? Tell me what you want us to do. So, because it does not implement it, should we allow this sight to be dissolved with what this implies for Zakynthos? Because I hear you say things. But suggestions, I don't hear that happening. I have already heard my colleague Mr Polakis say that the municipality must manage it. But we gave it to him in the city to handle it. It cannot be managed, despite the repeated efforts we have made to deal with it by the municipality. And what does this particular amendment that we are bringing? Under no circumstances speaks of revenue or financial management, it speaks of anything like that. What's he saying? Here and now a committee consisting of four Zakynthos - if it is possible for the Zakynthos to sell their own property - with a representative of the Ministry of Tourism to be able to provide solutions. In what? To give solutions so as not to destroy the ship and to be able to create security at the nest. I heard something tragic. Really, I've heard it from a lot of people and from you, Mr. Polakis, so you're defenders of reducing the line of saint? And those who claim to reduce the line of sanctuary and are private...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u315	I told you, beggar.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u316	Let go, I heard you very well. So, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u317	Beach said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u318	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u319	You want it to be reduced, which enshrines the regiment line and that it's inside, you want to reduce it. That's never happened before. That's never been heard before. And it sounded like most parties here. We're trying to secure this... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen. Probably, I don't know, but you must have signed your signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u320	Please don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u321	In 2018 you took off coordinates when you were government. And you said that the coordinates are where we are currently demarcating. Where were you in '18 to say this is a foolishness and that it's not in the nest, but it's 15 meters in it? And we don't really care that it's 15 meters in it? The Greek state has ownership, state, government in this case. When you give it up and go to anyone who claims it will be able to sell it, Mr. Polakis. Then he sells it when he takes it, privatizes this particular part and not when he is inside the old cavalry and fifteen meters and fifty meters that we will be able to secure and constitutionally belong to the Greek state. I heard you say it, and it really seemed a little strange to me. On the other hand, you tried to connect the shipwreck to the sale. I would say that it is something that you shouldn't have touched, because the sale took place in '14 and you've run the whole situation as a government for four and a half years. And you should know that in this particular case there are various elements which unfortunately have been seen for you. So there is a report here, which says: 'The clone for Mr. Tsipras's Minister'. I won't say names. I think they're familiar and you know it. ‘SYRIZA’ was designated by the SYRIZA. 'Bavefield to Zakynthos'. From there on, I agree that Maximo intervened in making the sale or securing it, but the only difference is that Maximo intervened in November 2016 and the one who had then reacted to the plans was then the Member and Minister, he reacted to the sales plans. Ms. Valavan on 21-5-2015 with her paper clarifies the authenticity of the covenant on which the land was sold. That resistance was made by you then for buying. And to make it clear, we are in favour of investment, of those who have no shadows. And because you want me to protect you and listen to me from Zakynthos, this sale has shadows, which is why it is in court. The Greek courts will decide what is happening and we will respect this decision of Greek justice, whatever it may be. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] But don't be an honorer of decisions. All these specific things have been done for your days, which you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u322	Is that all you found in our administration?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u323	Doesn't that satisfy you? That's all I said and that's all you understood. It's okay. Now let's go further. As far as Zakynthos' reaction is concerned, you told us that there is a huge reaction from Zakynthos and that in the end there is a mess in Zakynthos, and we may have great problems. You, Mrs. Notopoulou, have visited Zakynthos. Can you tell us what you got from Zakynthos? Can you tell us what people gathered in the shipwreck area, why I see, I counted them, they're fifty, and the bus that you transported them was twenty-five in? This was the reaction of the actors in Zakynthos, Mrs. Notopoulou, when you came to Zakynthos to see the responses of the operators to this shipwreck. And I guess your visit was a shipwreck, and the whole thing became a pragmat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u324	You were worried about our visit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u325	But since you visited it and all that you told us, you did not tell us what to do. You saw the mess in the area. You saw the ship dismantled if you could see it. You've seen what's happening on the land side.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u326	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u327	Tell him a suggestion to see what we're gonna do here and now. Let's not make "Navy S.A." not the body. What do you want us to do? Tell us what you suggest. But it must be done now, not whenever you take governance, the progressive one, in three, four, ten, fifteen years. We have to do this now. You must suggest something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Cape, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u329	I shall conclude, Mr President, and a thousand apologies. I will finish by saying that Zakynthos needs the shipwreck and the shipwreck needs protection. With this draft law and amendment, we believe that we are giving a solution to the problems that we have faced all the previous period, and I am only talking about the subject of the shipwreck amendment, and I would like to believe that we are meeting the request of the people of Zakynthos. I wouldn't be me against the inhabitants and the majority of the island, only crazy would do that. So, as you can see, what the residents, the operators, the businessmen of Zakynthos were asking for is being implemented in order to have this attraction for the benefit of Zakynthos and Greece. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. Good evening, good week. I'll have my name come out as soon as I get up to the dungeon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u332	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. I saw you. Look out, we have thirty two speakers. We've got a long way to go. Mr Santorinier, would you like the floor for your speech or for intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u333	I would like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u334	You've made two more, it's the third.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u335	Before it was on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u336	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Apepi, I understand your anxiety and anxiety. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u338	For the shipwreck.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u339	For the shipwreck, Mr. Apepi, and for all the rest of the things you have said. Your anxiety and anxiety was to charge the SYRIZA government some scandals with some unfounded reports. What you did not say, however, is that the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, ordered by the then Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, was the one that eventually led to the condemnation and annulment of this contract. But you did not say that. You do not say that, Mr Akuppi, because you want to throw mud at SYRIZA, because you want to shape conditions so that any shipwreck of the shipwreck can be accepted to the local society. As for the proposals, you will hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u340	Mr Santorinier, please address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u341	Right, you're right. I'm sorry, Mr. President. One thing you know: this proposal that you bring not only will not give a solution but will confuse things much more. We'll be here in a month. We will present a proposal to you and we will now be presenting it during my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, too. Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not think anyone has questioned the need to protect the shipwreck.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u344	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u345	What has at least been seen in the last period is that you are looking for some answer on the issues of the ownership of the land related to the shipwreck and on this subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u346	That's not what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u347	But I told you it was you who made this dominance of it, that he took it back and forth. You have tabled an amendment, you have taken it back, you have said you will bring it, and we have finally reached a point, that is, you have reached a point where you are finally obliged to answer this particular question. This today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, until you answer, will also employ local society. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the government is trying to regulate once again specific management issues of tourism, without being integrated into a comprehensive plan for the tourism product in the years to come. You do, gentlemen of the government, constant references to sustainable tourism, but nowhere does you seem to be treating it as a whole in conjunction with other activities. For example, introduce detailed arrangements for tourism for the thermal sources that are mainly located in areas with intense agri-food activity but you do not make any reference to rural tourism and other forms of tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular in the countryside, there can be many forms of alternative tourism, which can also be found in the great problem of tourism, the possibility of services throughout the year. It is this possibility that it has allowed the two areas, rural and tourists to complement each other, thereby ensuring the survival of the inhabitants in many areas of our country. When, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you brought Law 4688/2020 for special forms of tourism, we stressed that such forms were not just dives. They are mainly those who serve to exploit the advantages of rural tourism, that is to say, rural tourism. And these forms of tourism were established by us, with Law 4528/2018 on thematic tourism. Agricultural tourism is a mild form of tourism and rural development that brings the city's inhabitants to the village's environment and enables it to become integrated into local conditions. It does not replace agricultural activities, instead supports them by adding an extra income. For example, it does not only concern the harvesting of olives, the harvest, but also the local cuisine, the testing of wine and all that can give a special identity to agricultural tourism and show it as a unique product. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece we have linked agricultural tourism to the hostels. Many of them may have been financed, mainly through the LEADER programmes, but do not serve these objectives. That is why the forms that we are discussing and must be discussed must be the result of close cooperation with other ministries for their institutional structure. Other more and more specialists can emerge, I would tell you, than they exist. Such forms of tourism existed until the total destruction of August in the area of northern Evia and constituted the main source of life in the region. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, these and all the tourist businesses are still without support at this time. There are enough conferences and communication contacts. The measures announced do not only cover everyone but also do not provide for rapid disbursement. They are the 11 million to date crustaceans. The worst thing, of course, is that they leave out all the small businesses that dominate the region, because only such things could be created by the labors and deprivations of life. In order to be able to continue its operation and the next day, however, all the potential for developing thematic forms of tourism needs to be explored. Surely the flagship of the area is the healing sources of Ethiopia, one of the first institutionalised in Greece, and that is a great advantage. All over the world, especially in terms of tourist planning, Minister, give power to self-government. But you take them away from responsibilities, resources and property, thus creating private companies for the management of the resources that the regions and municipalities have in the country. The company "Miatic Sources of Greece" you are making on substance is a new TIADED, to do what the original TIADED did not do, i.e. to make use of public property through privatisations. The fact that it is initially stipulated that 80% of the capital of the company 'Miatic Sources' belongs to the State, with shares that are non-transferable, is set out below in the same article, which states that public participation may not be less than 50%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These are the percentages of government that can then change, as you have made in cases of divestment of much more important public assets, as is the recent one of PPC. The healing sources of Ethiopia need to further strengthen their position and role with a view to removing the monoculture of subsidised thermal baths and connecting them to other forms of tourism. He can't wait any longer, Minister, Northern Evia. You, too, are particularly concerned with this sector, because it has a great need to survive. There is a great need for people who are involved in tourism to be next day, and that is the dominant concern of all of us in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr Apostleu. I will now give the floor to Mr Vassilis - Nikolaos Ypsilante of New Democracy, then to Mr Kokkalis from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos will take the floor. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today's tourism bill has been heard, particularly at the beginning of the debate, intolerable and cynical things, particularly from the point of view of Officerial Response, in relation to the pandemic, and I, of course, do not want to be extended, because these have been a milestone. I would like to focus on two issues relating to pandemic and tourism. Since the here Minister of Tourism was present at the longest time of the great crisis of the pandemic, it was also Minister of Health that I would like to congratulate him. However, by citing our country's figures in relation to other competing tourist countries in Europe and in our region, Greece has then demonstrated that it has dealt in an exemplary way with the problems of pandemic in the tourism sector. In many cases, the policy of our country has been pursued in this area, but also proposals have been adopted in the tourism sector, such as the proposal on the European certificate COVID, which was a thought of our Prime Minister, such as the traceability tests, the tests carried out at hotels, the organization of businesses, events unprecedented for the country. In addition, I would like to say that, at least in the southern Aegean, the yields on tourism, that is, the yields on tourism in our region, were in income this year higher than in 2019. So let the fairy tales, let the things that you've done, you're lying to listen to them, your audience, because it's taken for granted that the great shipwreck for you is the policy you've done as a government and the policy that you've been following today as a Dedicated Opposition. You're a political shipwreck. And, unfortunately, you are still on the backs of the Greek people, an unresolved policy, a strategy that has reached the point for our state to vote against the choice to support the country's defence capacity. That's who you are, gentlemen! And now you want to talk to us about tourism and progress and how local communities think? You heard before Mr. Cappi! However, I would like to come back to this piece of legislation that strengthens our tourism, Minister, which is for granted, because this strongerisation - which is welcome - is coming for an area that brings our Gross National Product to the full and in a country where every inch of land encloses beauty and history. Yes, our area, especially Rhodes and Kos, are pioneers in tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u350	And Corfu!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u351	Yeah, and Corfu, Mr. Gika. However, it is so magical that in any part of the country that we return, tourism is the one that can, along with culture, give us this special thing that the country needs to go forward. You are also supporting this with two very important institutions which are introduced by this legislation. The first is this Interministerial Committee for the Planning and Development of Standard Tourism Destinations and the second is the Local or Regional Observatory for Sustainable Tourism Development, namely the way or study that can be carried out through this tourist market observatory, the presentation of findings and the proposal for targeted development measures. And very importantly, Mr Minister, you are interconnecting these observatories with these management and promotion agencies of destination. After all, in Rhodes we have had this model a long time ago and, in fact, through these choices and through their legislation you are empowering and enabling other regions to implement them. With regard to the allocation of responsibilities for the management and promotion of tourist destinations, I mentioned in detail before. It is a development option that I believe is very important to local communities. With the establishment of the public limited companies under the name "Viatic Sources of Greece" and with the consent of the ATTs with regard to their integration into the operation of the units existing in their areas, I think that a response and a solution is given to the issues and the comments made by the TAs at an early stage. One point I want to highlight through this piece of legislation is that you choose other forms of tourism. I have listened to Mr Apostle's very nice speech, which has highlighted the elements of agricultural tourism, and I see that you, Minister, through this legislation, promote the 'glamping' system, namely the introduction of a luxurious stay in nature in tourist accommodation in rural areas that are raised in off-project areas and prevent differentiated types of accommodation in poorly harmonised and environmentally friendly structures. It is in the context of what we say that Greek tourism must be competitive at all levels. We must not monitor developments as a piggyback, but we must be a step forward. I also consider all the initiatives you have taken through this piece of legislation to guarantee the profession of hotel owners by those who are waging it - and they are not very few - while they were exposed on many points. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I should like to refer to the great debate that has been taking place in Rhodes for many years now, and for the last time, on the operation of the School of Tourism in Rhodes, which was, of course, established in the standards of Swiss schools in the 1950s since the EOT, but also by the mayor of Michael Petridis at the time. It was a school that has taken important staff who have supported Greek and international tourism. Unfortunately, from the time of the crisis, Mr Minister, there are requests today that others should be immediately accepted and others should put them on another basis of reasonableness. The School of Tourist Professionals in Rhodes must support it at all levels. I have spoken with you and understood that these efforts are being made so that all those requests can get their answers and solutions within a reasonable, strategic and rational development. And that is why I, as a Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, will be responsible for giving those answers that both our students and the Rodices, the Dodecanese, are waiting for for the operation of this famous school. Finally, I find the opportunity to congratulate you, Mr Minister, the State Secretary and the previous Minister, who together as the Ministry of Tourism you see the phenomenon of tourism as the real potential that takes off, keeps and supports our country both in difficult and easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Mr Vassilis Kokakis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the budget did not mention any support for the workers and tourist businessmen, except the suspension of payment of the repayable advance, ignoring the fair and reasonable demand for partial cancellation of the debt created in the pandemic. Nice words, as in every bill: model tourist destination, management agencies of these destinations. In fact, however, this is a rough and vague piece of legislation. Quickly, if someone reads - not at all - what Parliament's Scientific Service says about the provisions, it will understand that this is a bill, which was actually written on the leg. For example, the Scientific Office of the Parliament states that the nature of these projects does not appear in Article 6, i.e. in the case of urban or purely developmental nature, or in the case of proposals to the bodies responsible for the planning of the State. Indicative of curiosity: in Article 6, the title is ‘Annual plans’. Right or change it? In the second row, he speaks of three years. So are the plans annually or three years old? Article 3: The nature of these areas as tourists does not arise. What provisions will be applied? A given spatial and urban legislation or tourism/developmental purpose? The consequences of the designation as a model of tourist destination shall, as soon as it falls within the competence of a management organisation. But this has not been clarified. Article 5: The purpose of the management bodies is to say that it is ‘to draw up and implement a strategic plan for sustainable tourism development and the management of destination’. You ask: is it the same plan as Article 6 or different? And we're going to the integrated management plans. As I have said before, the title of the article speaks of an annual plan. In the second row, the reader notes that the project is three years old, the obligation. No revision of the plans is envisaged. It is not planned - among the most important - to consult local communities. In order to draw up these projects, will local communities be consulted beforehand? There is no provision for the procedure of objections by the Minister for the possible divergence of such plans with spatial or urban legislation. You say in paragraph 3 that the plans must take into account the management plans of the protected areas in the NATURA areas. I recall that for my region, as far as Larissa is concerned, for Olympus, in 2018 Mr Famelos signed the studies and contracts were made. Where are all this? And you say, today, that we simply need to take into account. Good, and they took it into consideration. Are sanctions foreseen? Is it just a wish? Do you wish? Do you wish the law to be implemented? I'm coming to the thermal sources. Minister, you must gladly indicate the purpose of this company. You refer to the explanatory statement that this company is being built to assist the use of thermal sources, in essence, to help the municipalities. You can't convince us. Why? Because in 2018, the thermal source was identified in the Larissa Prefecture in Red Water. In 2019 a project of the Municipality of Agias was carried out with the Region of Thessaly. The object of this work was: Excavation and disclosure of natural thermal sources, stonestorming, plating and streaming. So what does that mean? That the municipality and the region, in fact, wanted to make use of this healing source. And you're coming now with the S.A. And you will get all the rights of the Municipality of Agia. Question: What will be the benefits for local society? What will be the benefits for local society from managing this thermal source from here, from Athens, for the Larissa Red Water? Unfortunately, none. In addition, 100% of the shares belong to the State. Then, in the second paragraph, you say that 20% will be taken by the CEDEFOP and in the last paragraph, you say that it cannot be less than 50% for the public, plus one share. What does that mean? That the benefits of this company, the benefits of using the thermal sources, including in the Larissa Red Water, will benefit private investors. Is that the policy you're doing for the municipalities? Is that social policy for local communities? Is this the policy to make use of health sources for both tourism and local economies? No, of course, and that is why we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. Red. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos is called in Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u355	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of all except the JRC, the speakers who have made this step are presented with neutral features: A tourism economic activity that has the same impact, whether the other is a businessman or a professional active in the field of tourism. Is that true? It's as true as that is, which you claim capitalist growth is for everyone, it's for everyone's sake. That's right. Because we say this: why are we listening here? Tourism, said SYRIZA's rapporteur, is the 'heavy industry'. Really? If it were the heavy industry, it would not have been shaken by the crisis, because the world could not travel. Is that too heavy? She has 'platinum legs'. They say other speakers: 'Tourism is the engine of the Greek economy' or 'is the driving lever of the economy' by giving it characteristics which they lead to? They lead, precisely, to the strengthening of tourism economic activity even more at the expense of other activities, when it is an extremist activity and it is very volatile in the global capitalist crisis, but not only: Pandemics of general or local, natural disasters, war conflicts, all this, even a change of currency or anything else, affect too much. It is the most volatile economic activity. And do you consider it a success that in Greece most of GDP comes from tourism? When no other capitalist developed economy happens. Tell me, who else? I looked at Italy's figures: Italy has as many tourists as its inhabitants. And we, before the 2019 crisis, had three times more tourists than residents. And now you say that in 2030 we have to reach the 50 million tourists in Greece? Where is this world going? Where are we going to put this world five times over the population of Greece? We are talking about Italy that it must reach 400 million tourists and Italy has 70 million people. Are you serious? What about Greece? How will it be transformed? Isn't that what anyone cares? Just to win the tour operator and the big hotel owners? Because they're gonna win. To change the use of land and concentrate on less and less hands? So what production activity will there be in Greece - even though capitalist we say - in the rural economy, when the land is concentrating in few hands? How many strategic investments have been approved for 2019, 2020 and 2021 concerning tourism and, indeed, integrated tourist accommodation, hundreds of millions of euros, subsidies and thousands of acres? These acres in the past belonged to and cultivated. There is only the cultivation of tourism! So rational are your thoughts. Whatever's interesting and serves investors. The rest? To concentrate the earth in a few hands, to change the use of land, that is not our concern. Let investment be realised and everything else be destroyed, ashes and bourbon! And how will the world live? Converting him to hotel staff, like they're experiencing great times. Didn't you see the incidents - which are too much, a few coming out of the public eye - coming out of high tourist destinations why can't they stand in the middle of a season? How many people left Santorini or Mykonos because they worked seven days a week, without a day off, ten and twelve hours a day and under conditions of living unacceptable, stacked not "seven nomad in a room", but "two mints in a room" or even in warehouses? Because the places reserved for hotels to stay, their employees rent and these tourists during the high season. Haven't you ever heard that they're renting hotels in different village warehouses to get people to stay there, hotel staff? In the Ionian islands everywhere this is done in Zakynthos. In a container, they stay in the summer without cooling. So what's that? Is this the miracle of tourism you all worship? Isn't there the other side of the moon? The back of the moon? We say that this is what we need to see, the back of the moon, because precisely tourism is the characteristic example of what capitalist economy means. It means three very specific things: firstly, that it is in the interests of the very large multinationals, the very large monopolistic groups active in the tourism sector. See how the hotel infrastructure has been concentrated, -is in very few chains - and how the hotels have planted the five-star, six-star hotels, while the small category that went and the simplest world have disappeared from the tourist map and will disappear. See how the times and hotels change from small groups to large groups. How many hotels were sold during the crisis? How much are they indebted and sold to the banks and will they be sold? Who's gonna buy them? The big multinational chains. So we have a concentration of activity in a few hands. And here are the direct intervention of the tour operator, the large multinationals that determine the tourist streams. So the "TUI" that is dominant in Greece does not have hotels that it manages in Turkey? Where's he going? Who decides? The Greek Government and the Turkish Government? Does not the 'TUI' decide on the basis of its own interests, whether it will bring them to Greece or take them to Turkey? However, these do not exist in the game, they do not exist in the debate. They're lost by magic. There is no debate, for example, that the Greek people in the large majority, over 50%, cannot make a day's holiday and we mean to pay them, not go to family homes in the villages. So, where is the possibility of satisfying the people's need, following this huge capitalist development in tourism to bring our people, workers, pensioners, self-employed people, people's youth to vacation to such large hotels and to such organized units of integrated tourist intervention? Can they? No, they're closed. That is why we say that tourism as a tourist activity in capitalism serves the interests of the few. The activity is concentrating on less hands. Professionals who are more and more difficult live, despite an increase in the tourist stream -only from bracelets, of all the other things that are gathered in the areas of integrated tourist development - and as a result the various small businesses from restaurants and anything else, side by side of the large hotel units, have no movement and life or minimality and are indebted. So they're concentrating. It's at the expense of the workers. There is intensification of work, work without a day off, age racism. Haven't you heard of age racism in hotels? Have you seen many old or old waiters or bars? You see them as cleaners working under terrible working conditions. The living conditions of workers are bad, there are delays in their wages. Haven't you heard about black work, about workers jumping from the hotel balconies to keep them from being recorded by the Labour Inspectorate and smashed their feet? We had multiple incidents in Zakynthos, for example, not to say about elsewhere. Don't you know that? Don't you know that apprenticeship solves and ties up, replaces the workers, those who come for apprenticeship and practice? I had been election in some oldest elections in a large hotel unit. And they told me "you certainly talk to the workers, but you need to know Russian and Ukrainian," because they worked with Russian and Ukrainians and 90% of those working there were from apprenticeship schools in Russia and Ukraine. What's that? He brought students from Russia and Ukraine to serve Russian and Ukrainian clients who had the hotel - it is in favour of workers, of course! - and of course it is expensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u356	With 250 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u357	The third issue which you have not taken into consideration in relation to the waste of infrastructure, not just tourist infrastructure. How many hotels stay closed for the rest of the time? Is it not a waste of infrastructure or other infrastructure which is directly related to the popular need such as transport, waste and management? Tons of garbage in Zakynthos, Kefalonia, Corfu, where garbage stacks on the streets! How can they manage all this waste and with what purpose? As far as the water resources and scarcity on some islands are concerned, I saw with my own eyes in Zakynthos in the big fires of 2017 that water was being cut for fire pumps to fill their swimming pools. It was with official complaints and I saw it with my own eyes and we reported it in 2017. What need, then, are they protecting? The protection of human life and the forest from fires or the interest of hotels when water cranes did not have? Where are these infrastructures going? For the benefit of who is it? Also, as far as health is concerned, they are without health centres, without pediatricians, without pathologists on the islands. And, of course, all governments have given land and water to the great capital that is active in tourism, from mountains, from shores, from saints! Which government didn't grant? SYRIZA didn't concession, did he? Has SYRIZA not done specific spatial planning in breach of the spatial rules for strategic investments in areas of integrated tourism development? What was that, for the benefit of the people's layers or for the benefit of investors? And, of course, the government's bill brings new facilities and services to the large business groups. And it reaches the point of conferring on substance and the thermal sources in the name of profitability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will use two minutes to say about the Zakynthos amendment. What does the amendment say? That what has been defined by the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, Western Greece and Ionian to establish a preliminary line of hayalou are the points that it gives to coordinates. Of course, the map could have been here too, Minister. What are these coordinates about? I've seen two different maps. Now what's the matter? You should, as a ministry, have testified to the map, that these are the coordinates, that's the map, where the coordinates are captured on top. One is this prisoner. So from the moment we say it's a hayaloo line, doesn't it? That's right. It is owned by the State Building Agency. Of course, the State Building Agency is able to grant it from municipalities - indirect privatisation - to give it directly to a private investor. Why are the municipalities going to give it? Aren't they going to give it to individuals? Are the municipalities different from the state? Now, of course, there is one question, if this zone is arbitrarily defined and if there are assets of the inhabitants of the villages in the region in this area, but they must be compensated if it is characterised by the state as a line of saint. That's not what we're talking about. Thirdly, we say that under the responsibility of the Ministry, all the necessary measures should have been taken to secure access to the shipwreck area, to preserve the shipwreck, but also to ensure the safety of the bathers and to have access free. This is the basic principle of the JRC. Do not, in other words, take advantage of any work carried out by those active in the tourism sector. Because, as you say in the amendment, studies and projects will be made by the state budget with state-funded exclusive. So the question is whether these projects that will be done will allow free access to the world or take advantage of business groups, we say. Fourth issue: Mr Akiupis, Zante's MEP, claimed that this will quickly be the case. We doubt that, because there are conflicting interests within this five-member committee that you have designated. He will never find common sense, because each of the representatives serves other business interests. So there will be more blockage. We say you have to withdraw it, Minister. And bring what? You must say that, under the responsibility of the Ministry in the zone designated as a sanctuary, we will create all the necessary projects and infrastructures, with the agreement, if they wish, of the local administration, and that these projects, which will be security works for access, maintenance and protection of baths, will be carried out. And from this point of view, there will be free access to the world there. That does not, however, ensure those features that I have said. So we are not sliding behind opposing business interests - because here there are positions that hide business interests, which are ahead of business interests - because we know very well that where major business groups runs counter to the people and satisfying their needs. That is why, if things remain that way, we will vote against it. We tell you to withdraw her and bring her in a different way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u358	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mr Mamoulakis is being prepared by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, tourism really is an important pillar of development and contributes decisively to the economic development of each country. But tourism is also other things, which should not be underestimated. Tourism unites. It is a way of approaching peoples, cultures, perceptions, attitudes and, of course, it also brings economic benefits and trade relations, which are developed at the same time. Tourism contributes to understanding among peoples. It promotes intercultural dialogue and the building of a European identity. At the same time, however, it strengthens trade, stimulates the maintenance of the national heritage of each place. The tourist development of each place is a challenge that is magnified by the challenges that exist at a time. Especially nowadays, particular challenges also exist for tourism from the climate crisis, which is taking place. It is therefore important that measures should be taken, that negative consumption patterns should be changed, so that adaptation is made to the new conditions and tourism within them. In our country tourism is an important economic activity, which offers many jobs and a significant proportion of the GDP of the country. But Greece is also a country with rich tourist products, which has made a decisive contribution in the decades of the economic crisis in the national economy. The main question, however - and I think this should be addressed by a Ministry of Tourism and in the current circumstances - is to alleviate seasonal tourism in our country. It is an issue on which local government can make a significant contribution to the first and second degrees of self-government. In the government of SYRIZA a slogan existed at the Ministry of Tourism, Minister: “three hundred and sixty-five days of multiple destinations” and a bill, which was made in 2018, concerning alternative forms of tourism. And I do not want to fail to say that a pan-European conference had also been held on SYRIZA by the Committee on Production and Trade in 2016, in the context of the crisis, at European level - the second pan-European - where issues of alternative forms of tourism were discussed, namely the thematic tourism, which exploits the comparative advantages of our country, our rich cultural heritage, ecological, environmental and health tourism and, of course, the connection - which is necessary - of the primary production sector in the first priorities, which, along with tourism, can also contribute to productive reconstruction. Of course, we must never forget the anthropocentric dimension of tourism, the worker, the small and medium-sized enterprise, the visitor, the tourist, the society that receives tourist flows. There are always sensitive, sensitive economic aspects of the industry, as some say, tourism. Respect for the environment and sustainable management of tourism development are important aspects of a new spatial framework for tourism, where a spatial planning focus is needed with emphasis on locality, the small scale, private sector participation with criteria and specifications along with measures to relieve tourist areas in the country, speeding up the creation of necessary infrastructure, implementing renewal programmes for the charged particular parts of our state by tourist flows. On the contrary, you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, bring a bill to the House that we are discussing at a time when the tourism sector has been particularly financially affected and continues to suffer, to receive blows because of the pandemic and the unauthorized, I would say not to say anything heavier, the way that the government has managed the pandemic. Tourism has also been hit at a pan-European level. Since 9.5% of GDP in 2020, tourism has fallen to around 4.5% of Europe's GDP. But there were also in our country and there are many problems. Already this year's season is 'in the air', making it imperative to take measures to support tourist businesses. In addition, the Government and the Ministry of Tourism, although they have widely advertised this bill, are, in essence, showing a curiosity, while on the other hand there was no substantial consultation with the operators and professionals of tourism. You have not given solutions to the spatial planning issue. This bill has not been completed and it does not offer solutions to these key issues. I shall refer to three things. First of all, I would like to say about the role of the EOT in promoting and promoting destinations. We see that there is no real and effective synergy between actors. EOT's degradation shall be effected by the regularisation of direct awards to Articles 56 and 57 by way of derogation from L.4412/2016. The brand of the country is not treated as a national case but as an opportunity for direct awards, which the New Democracy Government is used to. It is the normality that direct assignments to the Government of New Democracy. For destination management bodies, we have a different logic. We are talking about cooperation between central government and local government as a tool for planning and implementing plans. And, of course, I'm going to talk about the medical sources, a serious natural wealth of our country. Here you are setting up the public limited company "Miatic Sources", providing national resources to an S.A., which is a matter of investigation and constitutionality. At first we had reacted and the bodies had reacted to the provisions of the bill. You did some - say - improvements to decision-making by the municipal councils for the delivery of public property to the S.A., but the core of the bill and targeting is the same, yet another anonymous company in which it gives all the possibilities that have been denied by the municipalities. It seems that you do not trust local government first and second degrees, so you operate so, while the OTAs need logistical support and human resources so that they can proceed to a development and promotion plan for their health sources. This was also mentioned at the second meeting by the CEDEFOP spokesman at the extra-parliamentary hearing. Also, the memorandum sent by the Association of Municipalities of Greece to Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, refers to the question of the use of thermal sources, stressing that the opinion of the municipalities is that the creation of a central management body will create issues. It is a difficult project that will not succeed, as the management of the TDI has not succeeded. On the contrary, municipalities could be upgraded with financial tools and, more generally, would help to make better use of the thermal sources, this important asset of the municipalities. In conclusion, I would say that our aim should be to target sustainable tourism development, to stimulate employment, to support entrepreneurship, to diffuse the tourist surplus in society, but always with respect for the environment, cultural and cultural heritage. I am not going to say anything about the amendment on the shipwreck. They said too many of our colleagues. You are quite clear, ladies and gentlemen of the government, first of all, as regards the procedure that has been followed - I would describe it as a hurtful process - and, of course, also in terms of content. There are serious questions raised, and I think that the amendment, the issue of the Zakynthos shipwreck and its exploitation, has not been solved. There might be a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor to table the legislative improvements so that we can move forward. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am tabling the legislative improvements to the draft law and to the amendment No 1174/1712/2021 of the Ministry of Tourism in order to be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis is called at Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Then there is the floor for Mrs Jack and then the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy Mr. Theocharis Theocharis will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the present draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is essentially a stirring-up of heterogeneous provisions which, in our view, have a strong, racist and fragmentative character. The Act has as a front the provisions concerning the establishment of management and promotion of tourist destinations, as well as the provision for the creation of a single body for the management of thermal sources. As my colleagues from SYRIZA have made a comprehensive criticism of the draft law, let me make a comment on each of these aspects of the bill and refer to symbolic and random one of the ruffles that you are bringing to the vote today. The idea of setting up pilot tourism organisations is extremely widespread in the institutional framework of other countries. As logical as it may be, many in the past had mentioned the need to integrate into the Greek legal system of this institution. So what we are now called on the Greek Parliament to do is to assess whether this tool is incorporated in the best possible way. The international literature says that the organisations managing model tourist destinations act as councillors, as conference rooms for local society, business community and local administration, municipalities and regions, to reconcile the identity of the tourist destination. In the Greek neo-democratic version of DMNO, i.e. Destination Management and Marketing Organisations, things are a little different. First of all, the Minister will decide on the establishment of these agencies and not on the local community. Organisations will take into account local management plans for protected areas which the New Democracy has accidentally frozen on the basis of a plan. The agencies will be financed by the municipal fees, although the decision to set up the agencies concerned will be taken by the Minister himself and by the Minister concerned. Finally, today's law provides for the creation of local observatories, but the law does not mention us at all, nor what their responsibilities are, nor above all, how they will be entrusted, nor how they will be financed. In general, the law is, in fact, a cold shell which does not in fact contain anything that reminds the relationship to the international practice of DMNO. Nothing at all? Not exactly. The whole of the first part of the law exists in order to make it possible for local LAGs, municipalities and regions to make forms of commercialization with the private sector, and this is a problem not because it is a form of public cooperation with the private sector, but mainly because this cooperation, as provided for in the draft law, will be done in a transparent manner, without the norms and rules, without an institutional framework available to the country in order to identify through this process how the ‘h’ private advertising will be chosen against the ‘f’ private sector, as well as without any guarantee that the advertising that will occur will concern a region and its whole product and not individual services. The law therefore exists for one reason only, for the non-transparent allocation of funds in favour of private advertising. While, in other words, the New Democracy says that it broadens public advertising through the exchange of private resources, in fact with this draft law, the public is subsidising private advertising, obviously in favour of friends of the respective minister. Let's go a little to the second party forecasts for thermal sources. It is not, obviously, an innovation of the Ministry and the current legislature, the development of health tourism. In fact, the development of sources of heating as a model of tourism pre-exists mass tourism and comes to the era of the interwar period, and even with symbolic and contagious investments at that time. These mid-war farms have involved the private sector in one way or another. What is different for our country today is the existence of an integrated and extractive legislation from European directives on public procurement and concessions contracts and, of course, an integrated legislation on the exploitation of water resources in each region. The issue that should concern the National Representation is the management of water resources and the process of access to them. Let us point out that the heat sources have multiple and heterople uses beyond thermal uses, such as hydroponics energy production. So we think that the body set up today - or proposed to be set up - would call it the HICP, without any concern about the sustainability and sustainability of any exploitation arising from the local ecosystems. To conclude - and allow me, Minister - to close my speech with a cute rousfetti. Minister, the rental of real estate by public entities is subject to special legislation, namely Law 3130/2003. However, the Ministry of Tourism has the bat's bone, and therefore it must be universally excluded from the provisions of Article 43 of this draft law. I claim that this is rousphetti, because your predecessor - here in the Chamber - had announced the relocation of the Ministry again outside the provisions of the law. For this reason, I will be presenting in the Minutes the official publications of the pro-government press in February 2020, when Mr. Theocharis was talking about the Ministry's transformation to Omonia in the building of the former court of appeal. Do you know what the explanatory memorandum to the law says about the matter? All of a sudden, as a magician, the Ministry of Tourism discovered that it has extraordinary needs for all of its staff. Really? Two years now New Democracy has ruled, SYRIZA does not rule. Two years wasn't enough to meet the ministry's housing needs? Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law unfortunately demonstrates that even in this area of policy which should and could be a field of consensus and understanding between the parties on tourism, the pandemic of opacity continues as if it were not a day before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr Mamulaki. Always, mister, keep track of time. Mrs Theodora Jackris is called in Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, the uniqueness of Greek tourism is undeniable. It is inextricably linked to the natural beauty of our country, the culture of hospitality and especially its cultural tradition. The island character and quality of the Greek coast are the main elements of the Greek tourist product that attracts millions of tourists every year. The tourism sector has a major growth and is an important part of our national economy, representing over 20% of GDP and 27% of the country's total exports. I wish we had an industry at this rate - 20% - that actually creates stable and well-paid jobs. Unfortunately, however, we do not have much to do, because the problems that the industry faces are too many, mainly on the question of quality and concentration in relation to the Mediterranean average. This means a high degree of concentration in seasonal terms, since the majority of arrivals occur from May to September mainly in island areas, since there are five-sixty hotels in the islands and 20% of total revenue is made there. It is also characterized by smaller size and lower quality hotel units. In short, Mr Minister, tourism is our national case and it needs special attention and attention, because whether we want it or not it is an important income for the country and what we all want is the influx of foreign capital in our country. But what do we have here? It is essentially a bill to cover a scandal and a bill that effectively undermines public goods and I am explaining. I will begin first of all with the case of Zakynthos Shipwreck, which we have in front of us again, and indeed with a night amendment. After three days, Minister, when the bill was being discussed in committee, you did not even keep the pretext. You have asked many times about your intentions on the matter. The fact is that you never responded clearly. You said yourself that the shipwreck of Zakynthos has been a problem that has been inherited for many years, that the relevant local authorities and other bodies on the island of Zakynthos have not been able to resolve and that you will do everything possible within the framework of the responsibilities, so as to ensure the best possible access to this shipwreck, so that it is a high quality tourist product, sustainable and that no one is in danger of our fellow citizen or traveler. You must explain to us, Minister, what exactly you mean, because you are the third in the order of business. The first on the street was opened by Mr. Georgiadis, who after meeting with Emir of Qatar in 2019 had made it clear to Zakynthos institutions that the government wants the investment to go ahead, so it is an investment. And when he saw the resistance of the local society, as he does, he said the grand phrase: "I don't care about the investment for Zakynthos. Let's do whatever the Zachynthians want. If they want to live with oak trees, they can live with oak.” The Minister's answer, as is, of course, all the interventions of the Minister in question. Next is Mr Theocharis, your predecessor, who actually brought the disputed arrangement to the consultation, I think before December 2020. And what do you say and insist? These days the shipwreck is different and those who oppose the maintenance of this shipwreck are accountable to the Greek people are accountable to the hoteliers of Zakynthos who will soon lose sight. There's a part missing from the ship and you don't do anything. Really, Mr. Theochari, you truly set up an anonymous company, why is there a piece of Zakynthos shipwreck missing? I mean, I really think you're taking us for natives. I don't understand anything else. Here are the municipal councillors in Zakynthos who say that for three years the Ministries of Finance, Commercial Shipping and Tourism have not conducted a study of the management and maintenance of the vessel itself, and you are telling us that you have recommended the bill that you had previously brought an anonymous company to manage because of missing a piece of the ship? You said that. And then you, Mr. Kikilia. The original bill encountered strong resistance, as it was reasonable, because the entire local society of Zakynthos is in the bars. That is why he came to the committee without the contested regulation, which you said to bring in a night's amendment. It was not so much your rush and your prestige that some ministers sign this in writing, that is, not even electronically. Why? Obviously, in order not to participate in the debate on the relevant committee, the stakeholders. Who are they? The master, metropolitan, municipality, town planning, local players mean nothing to you. It is only for you that hotel owners are worthy, which is why you are ignoring all the local society and you have artificially excluded them from institutional dialogue. Because you are completely indifferent to the interests of local society, to the use of the flagship shipwreck itself and the wider region for the benefit of the local society. You're telling us, Mr. Kicilia, that you've brought in a completely new arrangement that has nothing to do with the previous one. All you have done is replace Mr Theochari's anonymous company with a committee, which - to say the least - is an ex-institutional committee. It's an anti-institutional committee. It's not predictable from anywhere. What do you think? This is where the municipality can't even convene a municipal council and you think with the hidden municipal council advisers you will represent the municipality's interests in the area? The questions about this enormous issue of Zakynthos are too much and, indeed, everyone wonders what is behind it. Areas belonging to individuals, the Church, the State, were transferred in 2014 by a gentleman who presented as the title of ownership an intransigent decree of the time of entrepreneurial rule to a company of Lebanese interests. And this is where Mr Polakis told us today that there are also Greeks hiding behind it. There is a unanimous adjunct of the Athens Council, which actually identifies felony acts to all those involved and yet the prosecutor is not going through any prosecutions long enough. Is that really not what you need an answer? And I will now move on to the other issues raised by this bill, starting with the public limited company "Miatic Sources of Greece". In its original version of the bill last December, the "Medical Sources of Greece S.A." was evident to have hit the interests of local government directly and at the end of the day it was a downgrading of the assets. Obviously the new version of the bill is improved but the basic philosophy remains here. The intention remains to set up a public limited company called "Viatic Sources of Greece", which aims at managing, managing, exploiting and exploiting natural health resources and sources as well as their facilities and the environment of thermal spaces within a radius of five hundred metres, which currently belongs to the management of the EOT. With this regulation you are simply turning this into the future, bearing in mind that if the municipalities do not have the resources, the tools and the staff, they will not make it. Take, for example, the Municipality of Almopia in which the Pozar baths belong, in my area. They're very well known. They had a year and a half before the pandemic period, not only from our country but from the Balkans and Central Europe. They belong to the Municipality of Almopia, which is a small municipality. He really has neither the resources nor the tools nor the staff to be able to do what you ask. The same is true of the Municipality of Skydras. The Loutrochori baths have even recently been licensed. You know that, Mr. Theochari, because that's how you were at the Ministry when Loutrochori's baths were licensed. In a subsequent phase with the bill you bring, the ownership of natural resources from these municipalities will be lost and will go to the S.A. This is what you seek with this bill. So instead of doing what you are doing because we already have thermal sources of many speeds, known as unfamiliar, equipped, not well equipped, give financial and human resources to local government and make sure that they are done, Minister, to show them. You, however, are weakening the institution of local government, taking responsibility for it. This time, it's the medical sources. Tomorrow's gonna be something else. The local government bodies to which the transferred or transferred natural thermal resources belong will not participate except for the Greek State at 80% and 20% of the CED.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u366	Slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u367	Of course this is a synthesis which can change from one moment to the next. We saw her in PPC's case too. Also the staffing - let's say this - of the "Imatic Sources S.A." is done outside S.A... So we all understand where this is going and why this is happening. I would therefore say to you at last, stop behaving like politicians in the previous century. I will conclude by saying that this draft law introduces an institutional framework that is neither capable of strengthening nor contributing to the development of Greek tourism. In order to do so, it is necessary to work together all those involved in tourism, as well as know-how, specialisation and real support for the sector. The way you are trying to develop tourism is not a sustainable development scheme. The pandemic revealed how fragile the tourist product is and how influenced by various factors. The consequences for workers have been enormous throughout this period. The same for the self-employed, the same for the small owners. We have said that it is a sector that accounts for more than 20% of our national economy. From the Recovery Fund, which is the historic opportunity for our country to acquire infrastructure to change if you want even a productive model, only 320 million are going to tourism, that is, 0.6% of the fund budget. Do you think, Minister, that this amount is sufficient to meet the needs of tourism following this huge blow by Greek tourism after the pandemic, two years now and uncertain about the future? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u368	Don't count a penny on your word. It's seven minutes. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor. Mrs Malama, Mr. Psychogyo, Mr. Bubbas will be followed. Then we will go back to a Parliamentary representative, Mr Santorinio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today I have the opportunity to speak in the plenary on this bill of the Ministry of Tourism. This is a bill that we have been thoroughly drafted in the previous period both at technical experts level and at political leadership level. Along with my partners almost throughout my term as Minister of Tourism we worked persistently and methodically to institutionalise a completely new model not only of tourism management but also of tourism development, always seeking to maximise the performance of Greek tourism for the benefit of the national economy and ultimately of the Greek people. In July 2019, when we took over the Ministry of Tourism, it was a turning year after the record of 2018. The data showed signs of fatigue and lack of strategic planning. Specifically, INSETE expected a billion less revenue in 2019 than in 2018. We have achieved the impossible by direct action. To be 2019 record year. In January 2020, the EOT campaign was even launched for the first time at this early stage. Unfortunately, immediately afterwards, the pandemic was invented and we were called upon to manage a completely different situation. 2020 was a year of adaptation. With protocols for all forms of tourist activity, with support for workers and businesses, with increased competitiveness, with constant diplomatic contacts, with the most important markets and with a new campaign for the promotion of the country, with daily contact with the tour operator, with interviews in foreign media, we made use of the last opportunity and we were finally entitled. World SETE, the WTTC has awarded us as the best country in tourism management since 2020, I remind you. In 2021, with a series of initiatives, the first and most important of the proposals made by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the green certificate, Greece entered a European level in the effort to recover the lost territory. It testifies to the fact that Europe thanks to Greece was the first continent worldwide in the recovery of tourism. All together as a fist - I see here partners from the Ministry of Tourism - EOT, private sector, workers, we have managed to turn Greece into a global model of effective and safe management of the health crisis in the tourism sector. As a model of consistency and credibility we have managed to make Greece stand out at an institutional, economic and indeed universal level, which makes me very proud both as a member of an excellent group of devoted people and personally. As far as the financial performance of Greek tourism is concerned, today or tomorrow, we are awaiting the results of October. In my assessments, the sector's revenues will be around EUR 1.1 billion and thus reach EUR 9.8 billion in the tenth of 2021. This means that we will be over EUR 10 billion by the end of the year. Consider what revenues mean by Greek tourism for the taxi driver in Rhodes, for the restaurant in the Cyclades, for the producer in Crete, for the worker in Halkidiki, for the tour guide in Corfu. We have not, however, left the reforms aside. This proves the ten-year strategic plan that we started in 2019. Mrs Loizu, the Secretary-General responsible for this is here. We have created an informal Interministerial Committee to manage the destinations of Mykonos and Santorini. I remind you that in the London WTN in September I gave a press conference and seven out of eleven questions were about overtourism in Santorini. We acted immediately. Two destinations, therefore, of global scope, whose tourism character was in danger of altering overtourism, which had infrastructure at a marginal point. Thirdly, this bill is a deep innovation. Let's look at it in detail. The new bill introduces and gives legal status to the institution of the management and development agencies of the DMOs. We are introducing the innovation of DMOs. It is innovation for us, not for other countries, by giving local government the tools to implement a development strategy. Let's not hear the government doesn't want to give local government tools. It is unfair, pointless and nothing to do with this criticism. The Ministry of Tourism has studied in detail what is true abroad and is successfully implemented. We have examined the models of Europe and beyond the Atlantic, as I had the opportunity to analyse you thoroughly in committee. We therefore prefer private and public partnerships but with clear responsibilities for tourism management and development organisations. So the model is clear. Local government is committed to a long-term development strategy and a corresponding long-term promotion and promotion strategy. Private people have no say in this. But they are encouraged to work together to create enclosures, so-called clubs and to cooperate ad hoc in joint actions with the public, which will be funded by 51% by the private and 49% by the public. Cooperation can be made in order to ensure the quality that they provide for the destination and of course all can promote the same logo, the same slogans and, more generally, the same cooperation. The model is flexible because it does not create super-cost costs and enables resources to be used by the development companies of the public. These companies are public, they are municipalities, they are companies that are there so that the municipalities can have the appropriate flexibility to bring about results. This is a model of strategy, because it enables cooperation between the private and public sectors to take place. I would like here to make a special reference to Santorini and Mykonos as models of tourist destination for integrated management. With key interventions in infrastructure, waste management at the port and at the marina, at the terminal, we managed to manage the issue of urban tourist flows. Of course, these flows within the pandemic were not as great as they gave us time and opportunity to make these key contributions. This model that has proved to be working in practice is the model that we bring with this bill. We are not bringing something that will not work. It has already worked out, it is merely an institution that is being shielded so that this model can coordinate the action of ministries, local government, and all to tie up with observers monitoring the weight of tourism in local society and, of course, in the development strategy model, which will have developed. The second issue that this bill addresses is equally important. This is about the development of thermal sources. This shows how pro-developmental the bill is, because it takes a situation which is finalized and promotes it in a totally healthy direction. Today we have in our country the thermal sources of many speeds, medical sources that are unrecognised or diagnostically recognized but unrecognised. We have valued planting or on complete abandonment, and of course, we have thermals that have a certain function. I would like to present to you, for example, four medical sources with photographs that are recognized and belong to municipalities. They are the Free Kavala, the Rivers and the Hearts of Xanthi and the Sanctuaries of Chios. So see here photos of abandonment. Look at the situation they are in at the moment. There's no healing, there's only one card recognized. We helped - me as Minister of Tourism - and we recognised so many sources. If you see these photos here, they're all destruction photos. I am tabling them to see them in detail, they are too many and they show what the current situation is on many of these medical sources that we are glad to see here. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is that what you want, ladies and gentlemen, to perpetuate? Is that why you're opposed? Is that what we all want here? The World Market for Tourism is estimated according to the Global Wellness Institute at 4.2 trillions. In particular at 119 billion for SPAs and 53.2 billion for thermal sources. Greece is absent from this development by losing every year millions of euros from visitors interested in this type of tourism. In fact, in the pandemic, it has been further strengthened. Healing sources are natural wealth which must be liberated and exploited by tourists. It's not just water. We cover our water needs in other ways. Water in many of these cases smells sulfur. You can't drink it. It has nothing to do with the water of the EEAS, the EEAS or the other public companies, because they have tried to create other impressions in committee. But that is not what we have seen - our experience is saying - neither with the completely decentralised model - I have shown you the destruction, and I am sure that all colleagues from the province have similar examples - nor with the fully centralised model of the EBRD at the moment, which also has health sources and camping and hotels and possibly shares and so forth, which all screws up in a real estate model. It's not the health tourism real estate. It's much more than that. So this bill introduces an intermediate model, which can bring about real growth. We give the municipalities every opportunity to make use of the resources they have and wish to convert them into wealthy resources, to do so in a reasonable period of time with a single decision. That is why the president of the PPP, the Mayor of Kythnos, agreed in the committee that this bill is positive. But if they cannot be exploited, we are building a pillar of knowledge which will enable the resources to be used in the future in cooperation with the local society. Besides, the problem of local society is neither should it be to get any rent from these healing sources. It is to develop the local economy. It's a lot of times a attraction pole doesn't make money. But all the restaurants, all the stores, all the merchants, all the economy around wins, makes money out of something that might never have been able to make money. That's why the state is intervening in such cases and making use of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, as I have said, I will need secondary and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u370	Yes, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u371	In addition to the previous issues I have highlighted, namely DMOs and the definition of the institutional framework for healing, the bill comes to regulate a number of issues of particular importance, such as what applies to accessibility to tourism, pet animals, some corrections for glamping, accessible cheeseries, mills, brewings. In addition, such very important interventions should have taken place. I will essentially close my speech on the matter of the shipwreck of Zakynthos. I will not follow Mrs Notopoulou's speech practice. I do not understand why he externally made a speech from a parliamentary representative, particularly on health issues or other issues. Mrs Notopoulou, you have replaced the rapporteur. If you wanted to replace the parliamentary representative, you would have done so. In any case, when the rapporteur for a bill speaks, he must remain on the subject of the bill. The parliamentary representatives, obviously by the Rules of Procedure of the House, have a duty, I would say, to move on to other issues. Now, as far as the shipwreck of Zakynthos is concerned, too much has been said. Of course, my dear colleague, Mr Akiupis, from the island, who knows very well, is anxious to find a solution, and he responds very well. Perhaps I will repeat some things that are worthwhile and we should talk about. I shall now close my speech on the topics of the shipwreck, so that the misunderstandings and pointless discussions are over. I'm going to answer a series of questions to solve all this. Firstly, is there a question of the safety of the shipyard and of the wider area? Of course there is. I re-establish my post in committee: "Part of the shipwreck has been lost these days. Our ministry took action. Yeah, he couldn't testify to this bill earlier. I am very pleased that the next leadership is coming and tabling it. We must not lose a single day. We cannot see the shipwreck being lost from day to day and missing pieces, and we can sit and do nothing." So I repeat the report by the committee. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I add that the cavalry is lost, small, because the chests come, they put the propellers backwards, they push the sand backwards and the cavalry shortens. And at some point the ship can be found in the water and the sea can take it completely. Pollution and other problems. There is therefore no question of this. The shipwreck is in danger and the shipwreck has not been expropriated. The first thing that this committee has to do is to expropriate it, because it has no right or right to study or to harmonise and protect it. So the first thing to do is that. Secondly, is there a matter of visitors' safety? Sure. We already have five deaths, three of them on the SYRIZA government, two on our own governments in 2012 and 2013. Four foreigners and a child from Patras: Jake Simkins, Robert Mosilla, Edmund Sen, Demosthenes Giotopoulos, Diana Rosa Aldothin Delgado. I read their names to be heard here in the Chamber. Is it possible we don't do anything? I ask you why you didn't do anything, why didn't you bring this provision when you were government? Is that why you're asking for elections? So you can see the problems and do nothing? To go back to governance, see them, die people and do nothing? No, it's bad trying to prevent death and not make it, and it's worse not to try at all. But it's handy to look at deaths as if nothing had happened and not to try for anything. Of course, the worst part of all is to come the solution and oppose and vote negatively. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, you must support the solution. I therefore put down both names and age, as well as reports on these deaths and the resignation letter by Mr Tsukala, who is responsible for civil protection, who is criticising despair towards the dance of death. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am tabling two documentary documents from the master which prohibits the use of the forest road for hazard reasons. You're not allowed to go to the shipwreck. Everyone who goes is illegal. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm filing a document from the Police Department, which considers the party dangerous and calls for the exclusion of the transit to be ensured by the security conditions. There are these and they have been for your day too. We're not doing anything. We can't do anything. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I make a practical point of the Municipality Council of Zakynthos, which, due to the above documents attesting risk, decides that it cannot do the studies, is very precise and put signs to the tourists: "Here are dangerous, do not go." This is the municipality's solution. ‘Don't go, it's dangerous.’ [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am tabling another document from the Alps, which states that 'in case of fire there is no possibility of escaping' - a new Eye - together with a document from the Region, which prohibits the movement of pedestrians and vehicles throughout the anti-missile period or in other words throughout the tourist season. You're not allowed to go by decision of the district. I am tabling a preliminary study by the IGM, which confirms the risk and proposes: limitations on ships, new studies, regular inspections and limitations or a ban on land access. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we have a shipwreck after all this? Is it important? Is it a positive tourist experience? Its importance is undeniable. The country's second most photographed sight. It became a Korean series in the shipwreck and was filled for years with tourists from Korea. It's so important to the island. But, with all the above documents I've submitted to you, we don't have a shipwreck. Right now it's illegal to go see the shipwreck. We shut it down all the time, because we can't guarantee security. I am making the final decision to demolition the viewing platform, which would be the definitive closure of the sight. This platform must be demolished. The previous documents therefore certify it. It's closed. No one should see it and those who approach it illegally. A danger, for example, is a new fire that can lead to a new Eye. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The current situation with garbage, immunity everywhere, hardship and blockage is described in a complaint I make along with a second report by the President of the Bolimon Community, who complains to the municipality about doing nothing. The local parliamentarian complains to his municipality that nothing is done and that we have garbage, traffic, we have a shame. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we save with this amendment the shipwreck, we save the tourist economy, we save the tourists who choose to go to the island. Is it the local society divided? Are there others in favor and against? No way. I make a series of press releases, interviews and letters from operators on the island, which are all positive. No one disputes the need for action, even the mayor you are invoking. I read institutions: Mayor of Zakynthos, Hotel Associations of Zakynthos, President of the Association of Theodos, Tsouronakis, Municipal Councillor, Tetradi, President of the Laganas Hoteliers, member of the Board. the WEU, Chamber and Hotel Associations, 20 former mayors, etc., Euro Taxi Zante, tourist agents, Tsukalas, Regional Adviser, decision of the Ionian Islands Regional Council in favour. It is a total of sixteen documents and they are all in favour. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who are they? Everybody. My friend from Zakynthos had substantial objections at first. But now he has the pressure in front of him. He said so himself. He said: "I'm crazy to want to vote something against the world?". Who are they against? Former respected Zakynthos and now Dodones, who is trying to connect the shipwreck with adjacent investment projects. Don't play this game. The plans are nearby. We're talking about the cavalry and the beach. And in fact, now as we speak, they say that, because we are unable to solve the problem, to make a joint company with the municipality, S.A. The people you stand here to say 'no' and to be 50% in the church and 50% in the municipality and two hundred residents who sent these letters - Mr. Paulakis told us - who are only for Emir of Qatar. The land starts from the beach. It is a public area, the seaside and the public area, the beach. We're not talking about this area. That's what we want to protect, the sanctuary and the beach. There's no division but your imagination. So, is the shipwreck related to private property? Under no circumstances, because it manages only the sanctuary and the beach, so that it can ensure safety and positive tourist experience, perform studies, works, expropriations of the temple itself, as I said - it has not even been declared unaccompanied, nothing has been done - to ensure this. He doesn't deal with other people's plots. The escape routes, the greens, the sight points, the sea access as well as the shipwreck itself must be protected and continue to produce wealth for the island in the peninsula. That's our job. That is what we are voting on today. We're not voting for Emir of Qatar. I will not tell you whether your government's secretaries or your government's ministers have taken part in this sale. I don't care about the matter. It has nothing to do with that sale. So the suggestion, and I close it, Mr President, is a plan. It is a plan that those who want to use it are to negate the shipwreck. So I close with two questions: One is whether the cavalry can or must change? The cavalry, Mr. Francis, you and others mentioned it, is a public place. It's done. If anyone wanted to raise objections, they should be brought back then. Mr Tsakalotos, Minister for the Interior, with Mr Skourletis, with the decentralised administration of SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you had that problem, you might have made another cavalry. But, right now, those who are trying to review the cavalry will come with a newer law and will be more stringent and will leave not under the eyebrow, but will get more in and get more private property if there is a review. But there are no new geological data to impose a review. The cavalry is 2018. It is not justified to review. So, if we judge him, that's when we hand him over to private interests. We're in favour of public space, and you're coming and you're telling us to squeeze it down to get down under the eyebrow on the beach? Say it. We are in favour of the space being private in the eyebrow above and not public, as is now some.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u372	Ask the second question and close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u373	I'm closing, Mr. President. The second question is about the form of the body. Of course, I accept that the S.A. which we brought to the consultation - look, in consultation, no amendment has been tabled or has never been withdrawn - that you did not like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u374	Why did you close the remarks?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u375	Even though the S.A. model. He works very well in the Acropolis Museum, but also in other places and has recently been extended with a bill of our Government, the Ministry of Culture, I can politically understand your objections. I do not agree, but at least I understand them politically. But now we're bringing a public committee with an employee from the Ministry of Tourism, with the Region, with the Municipality, with the Chamber, with everyone. You have no excuse to vote for this procedure. So, after that, ladies and gentlemen, and I close, you are accountable to society, the island, the wider tourism industry if you do not vote for this amendment and you are more widely accountable to every tourist worker who has found a job this year and will also find time. You are accountable if you do not vote for this development bill, which will give workers jobs and give bread for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, too. Mr. Theochari, do you know what the damage you've done? Mr. Santorinios will be here in Step and he'll say he needs twenty-five minutes. Mrs Malama has the floor now from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the tourism bill we are debating today comes at a time when the government with its handling mortgages on the country's winter tourism season. Already the winter season was horrific and before your amateur treatments in relation to arrival tests. Your revolts, however, have completed the disaster. You have changed the measures at airports for the tests, even for citizens who are fully vaccinated with the third dose. You have been exposed to the European Council in Brussels and you have had to revise it, but in part. The cancellations after all this from abroad have now taken the form of an avalanche. Athens, and not only Athens, many destinations of our country that we had displayed as 12 months of tourist destinations are empty and foreigners are completely absent. Most winter destinations in northern Greece are full of zero for Christmas and everyone wonders what you will do with professionals and workers in winter tourism, who are being destroyed for a third consecutive year. However, with the bill we are debating today, you do not answer any of these problems nor lay the foundations for organising a more rational approach to arrivals in the summer at all. But we will also have the opportunity to discuss all this in the future. What needs to be stressed at this stage is that, through this bill, tourist destinations that have developed thermal tourism, the destinations that have modern heating units, the municipalities that have worked to highlight their thermal sources are threatened. And I refer to the arrangements for the new company you create for the management of thermal sources in our country. It is a recommendation - and we must say it to hear it, too - of a new TDIDE for the country's healing sources and for the natural environment and infrastructure around them. This development is extremely worrying, given that these unique assets of local communities are transferred without consideration to a company in Athens, which we do not know how to exploit and to whom it will make available. The future of the thermal sources and their infrastructures is becoming more than uncertain in this context, given that this company is not going to operate in any way in the interests of the local interest. What will he do in such cases? He will try to sell or rent public property to private individuals without interest in local development. We saw it recently on Sarti's lands in Halkidiki. Maybe you've been able to read the subject. But now we see it from the back. Where the public manages parts of the saint where there are monuments of cultural interest, what's going on? The public lets monuments fall apart, because its services are not interested in paying for their maintenance. A characteristic example is the monuments of the Batopedian share capital in New Triglia, Halkidiki. But that is not all, there are too many buildings of public and social interest in Halkidiki with the same fate. So we call on you to think about how problematic it is when a development resource of a local tourism society goes through the teachers of the bureaucracy of central administration staff. As far as medical sources are concerned, you should explain why an administrative board from Athens can make better use of them than local communities. In Halkidiki, your arrangements are very concerned about the citizens in Kassandra, where the municipality has been managing the thermal sources of the Lutras of Agia Paraskevi for years and in no way wants to engage in a blurred company regime in terms of their exploitation. The Municipality of Kassandra had explicitly invoked Mr.Theocharis - we are heard by Mr. Theocharis - the predecessor of the Minister, who attempted the compulsory transfer of the Loutras to the company you are creating. Today, of course, the provision comes as optional. This does not mean, however, that the danger to the Agia Paraskevi Bathrooms has also passed for all baths. We tell you that we expressly disagree with your plans. We want the thematic resources as a lever for the development of local society. We want the Platforms of Agia Paraskevi and not only to continue to offer jobs to local society and compensatory benefits. We want these benefits to be increased and even wider among the citizens of Cassandra. We do not believe that this company you are creating can currently manage the complex issue of the local development of health sources. On the contrary, we fear that the vehicle will be used to divest the infrastructures that are developed, and that it will be indifferent to those that remain untapped. In any case, we call on the citizens and institutions of Kassandra to be vigilant in order not to disturb the development of the Lutres of Agia Paraskevi and not just so that this valuable resource is not lost, which every local society has promoted and demonstrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u378	Mr Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact of constant returns to the deposit of this bill clearly shows that the government has neither a political view nor a strategy for how to manage a critical product for the country, the tourist industry, but it is produced and behaves behind interests. It is not the first time, of course, and it is not the only field that does it, because everything is legislating in this way and apologizing there. I'll get some examples. I have recently submitted a report on behalf of the Union of Hotel Hotel - Corinthian accommodations and on winter tourism and summer, where professionals there, small and medium-sized businessmen and then entire chain around them, local communities, suppliers are making three basic requests: the conversion of the refundable advance on those who have taken to a non-refundable, the treatment of high energy costs, but also a regulatory framework for short-term leases in relation to health protocols, so that there is no unfair competition. None of this has been done, any intervention by your government. The second example is the Higher School of Tourism Education, it has also been mentioned by other colleagues, that of Crete and elsewhere, where - despite the fact that we are talking about a dynamic and very important piece of students for the country, where their families and themselves have spent money and money - there comes the government to completely depreciate both their professional rights and their degrees, student care, academic guarantees, and as a result old and young students are in the air. And that's what happens when a lot of people worked under pretty difficult conditions this summer at hotels all over the season. And I'm sure that's for the benefit of private colleges and IKKs, which you're serving anyway. The third example is to do with hotel officials, seasonals, several of whom - a thousand - were left without support, without fund, in order to be able to survive the rest of the period, but also to have the necessary collective agreement that is needed, so that they can have dignity, wages and hours as they should. The fourth example, which concerns my region, is the Corinth Canal. That's where you've gotten over yourself! About two years ago the Canal, with tens of millions lost to the public - the issue is not "playing" anywhere, of course - with the workers in complete insecurity, being paid for at the moment by a loan taken by the Supreme Bank from Piraeus - imagine what this means to the Canal's assets in the process - by navigation being completely overturned and risky for that, and in general by a Prime Minister who came to the Canal and did not know that the Canal is closed! So this is your idea of a damage that has been done and which we in 2018, when it happened, within a month and a half, we restored it and opened the channel. Now about two years have passed, you have not made any intervention, neither by the canal itself nor by a contractor, and you are doing a study together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, which, from 8 million euros, has now reached 30 million euros. What's that for? Where is the public interest here? So that is your logic and that is reflected in individual issues. However, I come to the arrangement you make for the establishment of a company called "Viatic Sources of Greece S.A.", which demonstrates the government's policy to try to control funding through these S.A., bypassing financial control and local government and concentrating control at central level now. So you grant national resources to an S.A., which raises in itself and issues of unconstitutionality. We had reacted strongly to the provisions and original provisions of the bill, which is a violent attempt to protect the property of the municipalities and the local society. I am bringing an example back from my region, Loutraki, where we have the thermal baths and the hydrotherapy centre, which is a huge and critical resource for the region, with a direct involvement of the city, with great traffic. The government of SYRIZA had given tools and support to heating as a whole and all the actors, local society, parties, local actors, municipal groups have fully reacted to this. Still, you go on and get it. Another example is the Loutras of Good Eleni, which is on the other side of the prefecture, where you also mortgage in this way any performance and exploitation for local communities. And yes, some improvements were made to the draft law, with regard to the non-mandatory supply of public property to the EU, and some of them entered, but, in fact, this tradition of public property is actually being delivered. You're saying the decision now is made by the municipal councils. But how do they get it? With an economic committee which is fully audited and with procedures which have completely devalued the municipal council, anyway. The core of the bill remains, the targeting remains that of the creation of another S.A., in which it gives all the possibilities that have been deprived of the municipalities. Even the approval of economic studies of the sources, which the municipalities will submit, will be subordinated, determined and finally controlled by the S.A., which is clearly a tool for manipulating the municipalities and ultimately canceling their role and participation in the decision on the sources and baths itself. It therefore gives the municipalities room, but without providing them with the appropriate legislative and financial tools, leading these national resources to the embrace of the EU. The company’s own legal form gives the ultimate management of a public asset, of thermal resources, with fully non-transparent private economic criteria, bypassing rules of sound financial management to the satisfaction of specific interests. This is the truth, an entire "Government S.A.", as I said before, which even comes to issues that have to do with such very serious reserves, the health sources and resources, the shipwreck of Zakynthos and everything that can be exploited by local communities, to divest and sell everything. So there, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of the SYRIZA comes - a Progressive Alliance along with the local society to keep the country and society upright again and to resist and prevent such manipulations, smuggling and smuggling, which undermine the country and save anything if it is saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas is called at Stepma from the Greek Solution and then Mr. Santorinios, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You have the floor, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, health tourism is certainly a part of the future in Greece, as long as we organise it properly, there is an establishment plan. We can take an example from various states. I would expect Mr Kikilia today to create an advertising spot, which says about health tourism, something that the Italians have done for years, with a famous program called the Italian 'aqua curativa', health tourism. However, the Italians, Mr Minister, allow local government, the large regioni, to take the initiative for health tourism and five hundred measures to enable private individuals to do some other actions. Before I go to that, it is an opportunity today to talk to Mr Lebanese, the Ministry of Rural Development, with Mr Vorides, Mr Stylus, Mr Kedicoglou - I don't know who - because here, in the Scientific Service and in the general remarks, he says at one point this. ‘In this case Law 4602/2019 on the exploration, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential shall apply.’. Here's a minute point. I am from an area that also has health tourism in Angistro in Sidirokastro, and a large geothermal field in the area of Nigritas, Heraklion, Ironokastro, Serres, but also the many healing baths of Nigritas, which are abandoned years. Because if we go to take advantage there, the house belongs to the Greek Tourism Organization, but to do a drilling, one must address the Institute for Geological and Mining Research. So this is the case. Can we talk about exploiting health tourism, if we do not overcome obstacles and amend an old law, where geothermality characterises it as mining activity and - because you are being cut into the New Republic for the cyclical economy and green development - does it not consider it a renewable source? We in the Greek Solution say yes to geothermality. Simplify the situation. Simplify procedures to go to organized greenhouses and the primary sector. So this is an opportunity, Minister, Mr Kikilia, to discuss this with the Ministry of Rural Development. Geothermality cannot be ore while it is hot water. Now, you need to outline and tell if we really talk about hydrotherapy, about mud bath therapy, as it is in the Kavala Mountains, so that we have a classification of health tourism. And because, in order not to hide, gentlemen, the people who enter the wheelchair into the development of thermal tourism, which is beyond it by the Iberians and the Italians, are the doctors themselves, not all of them, as well as Mr Kikilias is a doctor. I'll say about this scientific training for the simple reason: Jamaic from blood, I'm curing from the doctor. There is the etymology of the word. Watch out now! Doctors themselves do not show the therapeutic properties of health tourism. Another to see this individually, ad hoc, depending on each other's illnesses and another to pass a promotional spot for health tourism, to attract both interior tourism and to pass the letters that "especially, you listen to your doctor with gratitude in person". They cannot be advertised today in all these media that you gave money to - a little bit of a complicated list of Pechas, which we have not found any way out of the exam and which closed before it opened - spot to go to Boroves and Bansko in Bulgaria's ski resorts, and not to have internal tourism. For COVID, we will also take the measures for the risk involved in what we call 'pandemic', so that the currency does not leave outside. And because you're a lot of lawyers in the Chamber, I'm going to the shipwreck. This is where I see what self-government has said. I have received some statements, such as the Mayor of Kythnos, Mr. Stamatis Garderis, who says that if healing sources are not funded, we will not be able to go to a management, a marketing and an agreement with individuals. And what do they say there? They're putting some limits on you. They do not ask for much funding, but there must be funding. Clearly, there are abandoned buildings, clearly, and there are sins of local government, but it is not possible if we are envisioning and publishing a state that you have said so from the very first moment, that local communities have no say and viewed. To think that they're gonna be foreign cells, they're gonna be parasites, fungi, vaults and viruses, so to speak, since we're going through a pandemic period? Who's gonna handle this? Will the privates manage them? We are talking about a hundred and fifty-six thermal sources in Central Greece, for a hundred ten in Macedonia, for a hundred in Crete, for eighty-eighty points! But this is where you're focusing! Here you are implementing a centralization, to practically develop five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten very healing sources in Greece! I will not go into it, for good reasons. This centralisation, in other words, will put in first, second and third gears. That's not how they make use of them. As in the islands, which are five of those that absorb a large income, I see something similar to that which you are trying to focus on the medical sources. You know, some time ago, there was also a trial for the people who were hired to the Public Property Company in the EBRD, and the recruitments are out illegal. This has an impact on what workers are experiencing in the region of the capital, Visattia, Nigrita, which could be exploited with another plan. It is therefore an opportunity to go to what I said before as regards geothermality. Here I see Mr Danas, the Secretary-General of the Association of Municipalities of the Radio Sources, says: 'We will ultimately have the approval of studies without funding'. Okay, now I'm trying to break out, I'm trying to interpret, but I'm listening to these people too. I am also listening to Mr. Zeis Angelides, the President of the Greek Thermalism Association, who also speaks of funding. It can't be a foreign cell that self-government first and second degrees, so it won't exploit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we're going to the shipwreck too fast. It has been a painful story forty-one years since Panagiotis, whose name was the ship. "Don't see Panaghi," we'll say at the end! Finally, as far as the study "Moroukis" is concerned, this is what I think this study company is called - look out, gentlemen! -, it doesn't, you know, make a saint for the shipwreck. He's taking it in a straight line. From Kefalonia it goes down to Lefkalada and then it goes up and out of the blue. It's not bad, but here we have to see if the bathers can take a bath there. It is another to be a visit and bring foreign currency to the island. But here is a painful story from Mr. Haros, the fifteen thousand acres, the three villages that have raised objections. I see a 'ntabliss' opening as far as L.4682 is concerned. Isn't that the NATURA law? That's where the story is spreading. What about the suitors there? And as my legal colleagues from SYRIZA have said, this committee has no legal status. This commission is on the air. All those, who the Minister said before, what do they want there? Why do many dopes talk there? Would they rent rooms? They're gonna take advantage of this area or else? I don't know! They're asking questions, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u382	Please hang up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u383	I shall conclude, Mr President. I too see measures to protect Zakynthos Shipwreck in the amendment. It is the composition of the committee that some are questioning whether there is a haematopoietic, because it is work elsewhere. Is it going for rooms later? I don't know! Aren't you studying Professor Zellidis in mind for the area? It's from the University of Patras. Are we not paying attention to them? What about it? It says, therefore, in the following terms: ‘As a matter of urgency, which fulfils the conditions for the application of paragraph 2 of Article 4412/16’. "The risk of the safety and health of the shipwreck visitors" is said to mean the risk of "the safety and health of the shipwreck visitors". Clearly! So what's going on here? Forty-five types of self-government, direct assignment. As the "come see" is done with direct assignments, so there will be a right to direct award here. People say it in there! But you know what? Since we're talking about pandemic, Mr. Kikilis knows about these...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u384	Don't go to another point, Mr. Comrade. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u385	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. There's a mechanism that the spike-tree virus tricks the cell. So this mechanism is called "reverse transcriptase", to make the cell host. Because another part of the science you're serving is the history of medicine. But as a doctor, you know that! These amendments should not be with this mechanism, the'reverse transcription' and want to deceive society of all this problem that has been left here since the emir era in the shipyard area, as well as the study 'Morouki' by Professor Zeleides. It is good to have them well with the local community, but not to overthrow evil and otherwise exploit the shipwreck and there are some hotels and a few rooms and all the character changes! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u386	Thank you very much. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, is now called at Step. Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u387	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to start with the issues of the bill and make a general reference to the issues, because I was reading a post on 'Kathimerini' - 'Kathemerini' is, it is not 'HUMAN' - in which he said that with developments with accuracy and inflation, but mainly at the cost of electricity, the average employee in our country will lose one and a half a year and a half a wage per year! I repeat, a half a year and a half! This means that this means that the value of the money that the Greek citizen now has is significantly underestimated. How do you answer that? You will respond to the'movement, but it will pass', as Mr Georgiadis said, 'until December the accuracy will be over'. At the same time, you are responding to the problems we have, with the significant increase in energy costs, because the increase in energy costs is not, in substance, covered by the delayed interventions that Mr Mitsotakis announced yesterday. Because the cost of energy will be three times the cost of Genarus. And on the basis of the information we have from the energy stock exchange, in February it will be much more. How are you going to answer that? How? With PPC privatization? That's how you answer? Is that your idea without the state having tools to shape prices? We are one of the most expensive countries in energy. What are you doing about it? You are running behind developments and, in essence, you are destroying the income of Greek citizens. At the same time, I listened to Mr Tsiodra, 'Come and you, Sotiris' - whom the Prime Minister said 'we do not need a professor to tell us', because he does not need him now - and the professor said that the 'Omicon' mutation can cause a huge pandemic across Europe. And what did he propose? Serious epidemiological work, rapid tests for all, rapid tests for vaccinated and unvaccinated. And how does the government respond to this through Mr. Economou today? They'll run rapid tests, the vaccinated, but they'll pay it out of their pocket. Is that how we deal with the pandemic? Is this how we're going to deal with the pandemic? And in all of this, you come a few days ago to vote on a budget, where your basic concept is that the pandemic is over. It's over two or three times by Mitsotakis, you and you have finished it two or three times with the budget. There is a serious question here: really, can you not see what is going on in society? Can't you see what's going on in the country? And, if you can't understand, finally, get out! Because society is aware of it and can no longer have a government that cannot respond to its problems. And anyway, since I spoke to Mr. Chiodra. Did you finally know, or did you not know that 88% of those outside the ICU - are a doctor, Minister - have more chance of dying than those in the ICU? Do you know that or do you not know what the study says, that 27% of people who died from the pandemic could have been saved if we had a more serious health system, which for two years you have not been able to build? Because you have decided not to hire staff, you have decided to give it up. The study talks about how the situation in regional hospitals is shaped. Honestly, he says the situation there is that, if you're unfortunate and you're in a regional hospital, then you don't have much chance. I see my own county. Moreover, the deterioration of the hospitals of Rhodes, Kos, Kalymnos is huge. And we are now coming to talk about tourism when we currently have a level of health security that cannot meet the needs of citizens. And you come to tell us that we will now bring in the preconditions so that we can also have serious tourism development. But already, within the pandemic, the crucial point that tourists see - you know, Mr. Theochari, you've been through a little hard in England with some questions that have been asked, haven't you? - it's the level of health safety and that you've degraded in the pandemic with a choice, because your choice is the privatisation of the health system. But the pandemic has set you up, or you'd already have done it. Now, let us also go to the issues relating to the bill and the amendment. I heard the Minister say, "But, guys, now what do you want? The bill, the amendment, the regulation we bring has nothing to do with the S.A. provided for by Mr. Theocharis.’. He had it in consultation, took it out of consultation, and now it brings us a solution, but not a debate to the committees. Didn't you want Zakynthos operators to come and tell their opinion? You did not want the Zakynthos institutions to come because you told us, Mr Theochari, that all the bodies are positive. Positive to what? In an S.E.A. which, in essence, would legalise a process of expropriation, so that they could finally go to the choice of a "mas" company? Because this is your ultimate plan, Mr. Theochari. This is, moreover, in your question discussion, when you were an Independent MP in 2016, on 18 November 2016, you told Mr Tsakalotos that Qatar, this company, has a serious tourist development plan, a total budget of 2 billion euros, which includes luxurious hotel infrastructure, cultural and sports centers, housing complexes in the model of Pearl of Qatar and thematic parks, marinas and shopping centers. You knew all that. So it was a good solution to go to Qatar? What does it have to do with it? You brought the arrangement, Mr. Theochari. You took it back to pass the skateboard of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and now you are bringing us another solution, which really has no S.A.. It is not the solution that you have brought, it is another solution which the Minister tells us is for the needs of the problem that exists, as we lose the shipwreck. Forty years we have lost our shipwreck forty years, Mr. Theochari, the boats are beating with propellers and are in danger of leaving sand forty years! And you've reached the point now, to convince us, to testify and to testify names of the dead. All right, Mr. Theochari, all right. That's enough of the horror. That's enough, you ran out on Matty. That's enough of the horror! To be touched, you also testify to us the names of the dead, who, anyway, were not just our own governance, as you said, to be clear. You said something else, that the municipality does not want to do it, because the studies are accurate and therefore it cannot do so. So you come with a solution which says: a five-member committee. Is this a legal person governed by public law? Does he have management capacity? Does he have financial competence? Does he have a technical adequacy? Can it, in essence, entrust studies, despite the fact that they are provided for in the law? Can he commission such precise studies as Mr. Theocharis said? So, what do we do? ‘Waterwasher’ means the award of studies and projects by means of a committee, through which services? And who's going to pay for them? That is why we are telling you: the solution you bring is not a solution. The solution you are bringing is something you will come to review for yourself because it will be 'driving' at the Court of Auditors. We tell you beforehand, what you are doing right now is completely wrong, it is legally wrong. And we want to protect you, above all, to protect the local community. Because what you are doing is selling them bubbles, since, in essence, a committee without a legal person doing works and studies has never been done in the world. The solution is simple. Can we give you a solution? We have told you: the Interministerial Committee, which will commission, if the municipality does not want, the Ministry of Infrastructure. To get the Ministry of Infrastructure to do the study and the project. Let me tell you something, Mr. Kikilia. When the earthquake happened in Kos, we didn't have a port in Kos. Within twenty days the money was also found, the study and the assignment of the project was carried out. How? Through the Ministry of Infrastructure. It's simple. Why don't you do it from there? You asked us about a solution and we suggest a solution. What you're doing is wrong. We tell you in advance and you'll come back and review it. Now, let's go to the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall take dentology and tritology, as Mr Theocharis has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u388	That's the hard part.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u389	We all know, particularly in pandemic conditions, that tourism needs a serious review of the model. We need a new model, a sustainable development of the tourist model. The next day of tourism is here. The 'Sea-Sun' model - not the rest - is gone, it has disappeared. The needs of the visitor himself have changed. Because now the visitor sets environmental criteria, wants experience, wants to offer him experience, and we must therefore be ready. The issue is: Are we ready as destinations? Are we ready as business to focus on these needs? How do we plan and implement these policies to respond to today's challenges? Apparently the pandemic worked as a magnifying lens in all these problems. At the same time, however, pandemic also brought a great blow to tourism, which we have all experienced. And we're talking about recovery today. We're not talking about healing wounds. Obviously, the wounds weren't healed. We are talking about a period that was actually covered by a 50% to 55% of 2019 - somewhere so, you say it - from July to October. But was that recovery for everyone? Did everyone help? Did he help the workers? The vast majority of workers worked two and a half to three months with exterior hours. Because you managed no checks. The APRD has destroyed it, labour relations have been destroyed by the Hatzidakis bill and, in fact, many workers, taking advantage of the fine arrangements you have brought to work, have worked and worked with individual contracts, not covered by the national collective agreement. The result at the moment is the income of the workers to be poor. At the same time, while you should have carried out a regulation - which we had brought to you - in order to cover all workers with the unemployment benefit, you have brought in a regulation with the fifty trademarks, which is incomplete and which basically makes most of the workers outside the unemployment benefit. Has small and medium-sized enterprises really been able to recover through this short period of time? Apparently not. Because right now, all they've done is just survive. The damage has not been covered. And you are asked to be simple: Delete part - as we say - of the pandemic debt, repayable advances will not be repaid. And you come and respond with a six-month extension, which will force them in June to start paying. When are they gonna jiggle, so they can start paying in June? Have you thought that these operations have actually been unprofitable for two years, have only been damaged, and do you think that you will be able to put them in the neck in June? It is a good thing that you have also given this extension. But the essence is different. We have to go to a deletion of part of the pandemic debt. For this reason, also aggressive takeover moves from foreign fund to leftover of the small and medium-sized hotel are recorded. Let's not talk about small accommodations. Small accommodations have remained completely apart from all funding, especially because you cannot understand that, for example, rented rooms that work for four months cannot complete an equivalent 12-month job. So you threw them all out. And how will these people survive? How could their businesses survive the next day and how will they be able to start again in the new year? Therefore, the only benefit was the great hotel, which benefited from the deregulation of labour relations, from the working conditions imposed by Mr Hatzidakis and had access to all the financial instruments. Does this bill give tourist answers? Oh, no. All he does is service and carelessness. You cannot or do not want to understand the needs of tourism. Do you realize that your term of office is complete and you're settling loose ends? Maybe that's it. From there we're talking about the DMOs. Obviously, DMOs are important in the global tourism market. The question is how is such a project being implemented? Why, for example, the only way in which a local government can be the development companies provided by your own design? Why can't there be a DMO which really has a scientific background, which can provide guarantees of expansion, better operation and proposals in the form of the tourist product? And from there you come to talk about the original tourist destinations of Integrated Management. Really, what are the definition criteria? What's the way? At least in other words, you put a ministerial decision, a presidential decree, setting out certain criteria. Here you do not set any definition criteria, and there are also definition criteria by the World Tourism Organisation. Why at least do you not adopt these criteria? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Even the Scientific Service of the Parliament tells you that the criteria are unclear, that they have nothing to do with spatial planning, with urban planning, that they cannot really meet the needs of a scientific design. And that's why you put as a fig sheet the approval of the KNSYTHA. But in fact there is no design. What should be done? A distinction must be made between destinations with criteria in three categories: first, the landed destinations where there must be a plan for the adjustment of the development model. Secondly, at dynamically growing destinations, where there should be help for them to progress towards a sustainable development model and not fall into the mistakes of saturated destinations. Thirdly, to the promised destinations. But I'll go to the medical supplies too. The way you shaped it, it's a mechanism to protect municipal property, the local resource in an S.A. There is no guarantee of the public character of this S.H.I.E. A mechanism for privatising health sources and alienating from local society is being set up. What should be done? Obviously these pictures Mr. Theocharis showed do not honor anyone. Obviously, they don't honor anyone. But a state that really wants to help local government would build a mechanism by which - because we helped get operating signals - you will be going to support the municipalities - because too many of them are small - to be able to build the management plans of these sources, the economic studies, the technical studies and at the same time to provide funding from the ENENEK, which you have stopped, the funding from "PHILDIMO", from "TRITIS" so that these municipalities can create local development. But what are you doing? You're transferring everything to an anonymous company, with the ultimate purpose of the obvious, because we know who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u390	Close, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u391	I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. I'm taking my tritology too. Mr. Theocharis spoke twenty-three minutes. I'm closing up on key issues. You were asked by the owners of the room rentals to extend until 2023 the renewal of the keys. Why are people asking for this? Because they were simply unable to upgrade their infrastructure and there is a risk that they will now get the certification of the keys downgraded rather than upgraded. So I think it's a fair request. Anything to do with the tour guides. It is good to regulate the two months. In my view, the two-month period should be abolished completely. There is no need for the two months now. But honestly tell us, what does "do the Greek Police detect the violation" mean? Why not impose the fine and then have an arrangement, a right to object? In this way, there will never be any fines imposed on guides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u393	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. I will close with an issue that is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u394	It's all important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u395	They ask the tour guides to be given the opportunity to get the aid with fifty meanings and not a hundred marks and a hundred badges. You all know what happened last year and how they couldn't work. I close with this: Minister, there is a serious issue with tourism education. You're not accepting to see the students of ASTER and ASTEC. There is a complete deterioration of these two schools. Students are teaching five hours a week, locked in by your settings. Their degree has been degraded and at the same time neither professors nor sufficient material has been provided. Do something about it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u396	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u397	So I close and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u398	You should have shut down. Mrs. Notopoulou has been prepared to applaud you three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u399	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, neither in the pandemic nor in tourism nor in fact you have solutions. So, as the Minister of State said, it's time to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, we have to look at the procedure in relation to the times. Please. I understand, this always happens when the previous guy talks. We're done here. We continue normally within time, not to delay, and then there are problems. Mr Alexios Aylonitis has the floor for seven minutes, within the year, to proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, you always happen to ask me to respect time, while the various speakers have been given an infinitely longer time. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u402	I don't have any staff with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u403	These days, it's all happening to me. I'm kidding. Well, I won't talk about the bill as a whole. After all, as rapporteur for the Committee on Production and Trade, I have been given the opportunity to discuss the views of our party in three consecutive speeches and, in any case, my colleagues have spoken of this. Mr. Theochari, your bill was cut. Because you showed us that you were brothers, loved ones, etc. There are very big problems, and you told us in committee, within the government, about the shipwreck issue. Mr. Theocharis predicted an anonymous company. There also provided for various other things and legal matters, although we are vertically opposed, the provisions were very right. You from the first day of the committee meeting to date - at night, that is to say - are bringing an amendment which is a monument of legal incoherence. A lawyer speaks to you, and I will, of course, explain it. Another question before I get to the point of the case: Who prevented you, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Kikilias, who you are not listening to me, from moving as the Ministry of Finance or as any ministry - government - to protect the shipwreck, its shell? Who banned you? Who legally banned you from opening roads up to the top of the mountains? Does anyone legally forbid you? Just the opposite. The ministries, the government, not the local government. Tell me one here that all I'm saying is legal inconsistency. But you have set up a committee today and you support the view that this committee, the five-member committee, will protect the shipwreck. But it is not as Mr Theocharis says. You have created a committee whose name is a Standard Tourism Area, namely, it is not just protection, but it is also utilization. Some look at you, they see you from the mountains of the shipwreck of Zakynthos, to see what action you are doing, so that you have the shipwreck's turtle. Fourteen thousand seven hundred acres were bought from the top of the shipwreck for an investment. If this investment doesn't have access to the shipwreck side, on the bottom side, after a hundred and fifty meters, it's lost money. So you have made commitments, and my colleague Nektarios Santorinios said so. There are political commitments on the part of your Government, when it was then, in 2017, Mr. Mitsotakis, who here, in Parliament, referred to the shipwreck. The safety of the investment therefore presupposes that the lower part of the shipwreck should be controlled by a legal person, which is effectively controlled by the central government. That's what they're asking. They're not idiots, they're not foolish people of Zakynthos. Municipal councillors aren't foolish. Regional consultants are not foolish. They are not foolish, the two metropolitans, when combining the bottom of the temple with the mountains. Because the way you're trying to tell us, we're fools. But on the mountains there was a market that was controlled by court, you were told. Fourteen thousand seven hundred acres were sold with a title, not translated, for an Venetian era, including the properties of the Church and two hundred inhabitants. And you came today, Mr Akuppi, and you say that we went with Mrs Notopoulou, the delegation, I was also, and the whole society is in your favour. You're lying! Lies! You'll answer for the next election. You play your political head. Let me tell you why. We went and saw the two metropolitans. They're quite opposite. The Church's assets have been sold. We've had a gathering with the agencies. We went to your mayor and the mayor didn't tell us anything like what you said today. We went to St. George of the Cremonies and gathered there a multitude of monks questioning the property of the monastery. Is this all I'm saying in the air nonsense? This is the raw reality that you hide in here. And I'll tell you something else for once. So, above the shipwreck of Zakynthos, which you can by very simple acts protect, investigation procedures have been carried out and seven persons involved in history have been identified and persecuted to a degree of felony. Does it leave you indifferent? Mr. Minister, Mr. Kikilis, says this is a court case. Of course it's a matter of court proceedings. But you are doing all these actions, you are building a five-member committee, in which it is not specified where its seat is, if it has any officials, if it has the legal capacity to make expropriation. Expropriation only makes a legal person governed by public law, makes the public. Do not have expropriate, which you can by an act, the deaf, the "Pan-father as they say it, and you tell me you want to do this committee? You couldn't have been in June? Couldn't you, in April, when you were talking, testify to a bill? It's a simple process. Why didn't you? Because you wanted to shape the legal framework of trusting those who see you from the high mountains of Zakynthos. You tell them we're here, we're protecting the investment, we'll help in justice too. One year the D.A. has the case of interrogation in his hands, and the previous one in fifteen days was over. Are the people of Zakynthos fooled to wonder why this is happening in Zakynthos? Listen, in Corfu, where I come from, there are infinite cliffs that we've lost people. May I remind you of the famous Canal d'amour in Sidari, north Corfu? In the burger, next door, there are perpendicular cliffs of a hundred and fifty meters [50 m]. Hundreds of thousands crawl there, others drown. Why don't you make us a commission, Mr. Kikilia, today, promise me to go to Corfu tomorrow morning to go to build all those walls, to ensure the famous Canal d'amour, which is world-famous and where people are drowning? Why don't you do it? You do it at the shipwreck of Zakynthos. The most important, the hottest of all, in my opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u404	And that's what you'll have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u405	I shall conclude, Mr President. What are you doing? While today in the bill you are establishing DMOs, that is, you enable the local government to manage the entire tourist product, in this case in the Municipality of Zakynthos and the organizations of this municipality, you give them the whole management of the tourist product and the place where the shipwreck is, you get it. Why, dear? Why don't you explain to the world? There is no way we can vote against it. I could speak for too long on these issues. I conclude only with the warm request and demand of the people of Corfu, since I am a member of Corfu, for the IEK. You came there, too, and the Undersecretary, and you promised to hire workers. He's a permanent man who's on resignation. Everyone else is under private law. Three expires in June. There is, in other words, no one in the IEK who has made infinite people who work and are sick in the tourist economy. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u406	We continue with the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Nikolaos Srmalene. Here comes Mr. Andrianos from New Democracy. Mr. Wireless, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not from Zakynthos or from the Ionian Sea. I'm from the archipelago, from the Aegean Sea, so I won't talk about the shipwreck. However, what I would like to say is that it is not possible for an issue which was in the consultation to suddenly leave just before the bill was tabled, not even enter the committees and then suddenly come an amendment with other provisions, which I will say a word later on Friday night. That means something. Something's wrong, something stinks, so to speak folk. Excuse me for the expression, but something's wrong. Your bill comes and serves perfectly the neoliberal logic of the New Democracy Government, delivering public space and wealth, productive sources in private interests. It ignores the necessary spatial planning and rationality of the carrying capacity and raises the building factors, such as the complex tourist accommodation, serving the logic of 'cement to be done', because so, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the New Democracy perceives development. All this "two" with many provisions of the amendment you tabled on Friday night, where you establish road openings within forest areas, extend the construction in the form of auxiliary spaces to complex tourist accommodations and expropriate beach zones for the benefit of private interests. Your Government has no integrated plan and no strategy for tourism, nor in terms of special incentives for the extension of the tourist season, nor in terms of spatial planning and exploitation of the comparative advantages of each region nor of course for the special promotion of the tourist product nor, much more, has a serious programme of tourism education and training nor does it of course have a policy of wages and working conditions which Mr Hatzidakis has destroyed with his bill. This year, thousands of employees in food and tourism were unable to obtain the benefits they are entitled to. I have to tell you that what you're celebrating for is that we went well. We went better than we expected in 2021. This is an international trend of tourism regardless of the government, but it would have been much better if they had joined a comprehensive tourism strategy. A characteristic example for tourist education is the depreciation of PMs, the Higher Schools of Tourism Education in Agios Nikolaos, Lasithi, and Rhodes, where students are occupied because they are in despair. Dear government ministers, you are due to a clear answer which you have not given to our Members who have asked timely questions, which have been made on several occasions by Parliament. We need clear answers. Will their degree be recognized as a university education? Will they be included in the 'ERASMUS' programmes? Will you speed up the tender for books and the recruitment of new teachers? Is there going to be care for the feeding? We're going down on two important issues. I shall refer first to the issues of the Standard Tourism Destinations for Integrated Management. Observation and vagueness of the criteria for qualification as Integrated Management Tourism Standards. On what objective criteria, with which particular physical characteristics and for what specific forms of tourism? So is the process of characterisation as a MAI, an address for strategic planning that accepts requests from local government agencies and finally the Minister decides, without any conditions, without any scientific research on international tourism trends or on the demand in the region, without even the assistance of the EOT, which is aware of the tourism demand through its offices abroad. In fact, the true model tourist destinations will not be integrated, but will become standard overtime and with a saturated perspective, such as Mykonos, Santorini, Rhodes, Halkidiki, Crete, Athens. In fact, Mr. Theocharis told us about some of the government's actions on Santorini and Mykonos. I'd like to ask him something, but he's missing right now. The famous study of the capacity of the Greek Environment Agency, which was also submitted to the Prime Minister, for Santorini, what luck does it have from there on? Where is he? Is this a study? Is it going to be applied? Is it going to be implemented? As far as the Management and Promotional Organisations are concerned, you are giving - say - the possibility for primary OTAs to set up these management organisations. Here again, the EOT is downgrading. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a couple of minutes. The EOT could become coordinator of all DMOs and train and guide both grade 1 and grade 2 in the preparation of projections according to the national projection planning. Because time is not enough for me, I go to the Anonymous Society "Romatic Sources of Greece". We also have thermal sources in the Cyclades, Milos and Kythnos. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is allergy to local communities and decentralisation, which is why it does not strengthen the municipalities. This is where the construction services, the towns of the municipalities do not have minimum staff in the islands and tourist areas so that they can move on to the issues of their region. Is it possible to say why all these years the municipalities have not gone through using thermal sources? Of course they did not use them because the central state did not actually support self-government first and second grades and now you are setting up an anonymous company of thermal sources, which, with opaque criteria, will take the management of a public good and deliver it to the private financial interests. That is your policy, and that is what you are serving faithfully. In conclusion, I would like to say that, for tourism, as for the whole economy, changes in the productive model are required. The new tourist model must cover three objectives: the satisfaction of consumers and tourists with decent incomes and good jobs in the directly involved, the well-being and quality of life in local communities, and of course it must be part of a mild and sustainable development model that respects the natural and man-made environment of each region. Since you do not adopt these policies and these strategies, there must be a new progressive government, which will include this tourist model in a comprehensive progressive, democratic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u408	Thank you. We continue with Mr Andrianos, and immediately thereafter Mr Kriton Arsenis, who was declared by the Merra25 and as a parliamentary representative, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin and enter the bill, I would like to make a comment, a point, on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said. He spoke like they haven't ruled, like people don't know them. He spoke and asked about what we were doing in this unprecedented real problem of electricity, the energy crisis, as if he did not know that the external factors were responsible for that accuracy. The answer to what we're doing is clear. We support households, we support farmers, we support professionals, with responsibility, seriousness and, of course, within the financial margins that our economy has. Ladies and gentlemen, the central importance of tourism in economic development and the country's prospects is given. The fact, for example, that tourism, despite the enormous difficulties of pandemic, has endured and will contribute this year to the national economy, as the official data show, EUR 10 billion, is a valuable breath. That is why we must recognise the contribution of all those who have kept tourism alive, by the Prime Minister, the Ministry responsible, the former leadership and now his services, local authorities, but above all, above all, the people of tourism, businessmen and workers, as well as the relevant ministries, to the effective support of tourism and workers in tourism, who have actually been dealing with the serious consequences of the pandemic over the last two years. The government and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, on a daily basis, proves that he has the will and determination to constantly enrich the patronage of the support and support measures of the affected social and professional groups, as I have said. At the same time, however, the pandemic crisis that we are facing today brings us all to the need for a longer-term planning and the implementation of the institutional reforms that our society and our economy need. Especially with regard to tourism, it has been clear for years that modernization and enrichment of our tourist development strategy is needed, which SYRIZA has not done in four and a half years. For example, it is clear, particularly in tourist areas such as our islands - and especially in Zakynthos, which my colleague, the Dionysus Akiupis and our Parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharis - but also in the mainland, in areas of increased and quality tourist traffic, such as Argolida, needs a greater, coordinated and effective emphasis on attracting quality tourism, on diversifying the tourist product, on developing alternative forms of tourism, on closer interconnection of tourism with the other productive advantages of each region. There is also a clear need for the continuous strengthening of tourism education and training. And here I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mrs Zacharaki, for the activation of four retraining programs of the Ministry of Tourism this year in Argolida, Ermion and Nafplio, which will be carried out under the supervision of the IEK Peloponnese, based in Argos and for a hundred students. Of course I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister, Vassilis Kikilis, as well as the Secretary-General, Vicky Loizou, for the most important step in signing the contract for the concession of the use and exploitation of the land and sea zone of the tourist port of Nafplio from the Ministry of Tourism to the Municipal Port, a work of breath for the entire region, with two hundred ten port posts, which will create many new jobs and further upgrade the tourist infrastructures of Nafplio, Argolida and more extensively of Southeast Greece. It is therefore particularly important to introduce with this draft law new institutions, such as the Management and Promotional Organisations, Standard Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management and Sustainable Tourism Observations. These are reforms that enhance the possibility of planning and implementing integrated tourist development actions, with the effective involvement of local communities, and actively encourage the development of synergies and the dynamic management of individual local tourist and wider productive identities. Besides, for the more effective, responsible and sustainable management of our country's huge development potential, such a framework is needed which harmoniously composes central coordination with local knowledge of needs and priorities, the strong points of public action and private initiative, the interest in direct results with care for sustainability and transgenic justice. It is also of special importance - especially for regions such as Argolida, with the heavy cultural heritage that combines tourism with the production of quality products - the institutional strengthening of visiting facilities such as olive mills and cheese houses to link primary production, processing and standardisation with tourism and substantially strengthen the specific identity of the region concerned. Because it is certain that a tourist who will know how to produce our quality products and will have the opportunity to test them where they are created will seek them when he returns to his place and will be effectively advertised to his own people. It is enough to see how much power this primary and inviolable advertising is now available from the various social media. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece belongs to the world's major tourist forces. The pandemic has tried and continues to test our strengths, but at the same time it is also an opportunity to implement the plan, the policies and the individual measures so that the next day we can find us ready, with upgraded products and services to the visitors from Greece and the whole world. So, in this huge collective effort, the state must contribute with the continuous modernisation and enrichment of the institutional framework by ensuring the harmonious interconnection of the country's creative forces, by opening up new opportunities and opportunities, by providing quality education and training, with long-term planning, combining the objectives of growth and sustainability. The draft law we are debating today is a positive step in this direction. It is a step that demonstrates our collective will that Greece continues to be in the forefront of global tourism with policies and products that respect the visitor, create great added value for the entire country and local communities and respect the history, culture and the natural environment of our country, this invaluable wealth that we received from the generations of yesterday and we must deliver even greater to the generations of tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u410	The parliamentary spokesman from Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arsenis has been asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much. Congressmen. On the side of the ministers there is no one. It's okay. But it's about them, and I'm sure they'll answer. I understand that this is a little personal assumption for Mr Theocharis. While the political leadership does not respond on the matter of the shipwreck, we see that Mr Theocharis is responding as a parliamentary representative now. That is to say, the old political leadership. It's very interesting. Of course, the most interesting thing came from Mr. Akippi's speech. Mr. Shadow told us about shadows in the marketplace. I would like to ask Mr Cappi where he is locating them. But I would also like to ask the government. Does he see these shadows? Mr. Theochari, do you see these shadows that Mr. Akippis sees as an MEP Zakynthos? You see, Mr. Kiklia, the shadows that Mr. Akippis sees? Mrs Zacharakis, you have visited the island on this matter. You see the shadows that Mr. Akippis sees? What does your Member mean about shadows? Mr. Theocharis brought various documents to support the necessity for how the shipwreck has been dissolved, about how all this should be done, about the fact that there is a consensus in the local society. Really, Mr. Theochari, Mr. Kikilia, because there is consensus, did you want to avoid hearing bodies? Because if you had a consensus in local society, I guess you'd like to hear from the agencies. This whole theatre, I put the amendment to him, I put the provision in the bill, pass the consultation, arrives in the House, without the article on the "Saint of S.A." and then, after he passes the motif of the hearing, he suddenly appears in plenary evening, did it because you have a local consensus? Or because you were afraid the residents, the mayor and the metropolitan would come here? However, some of the names you mentioned, Mr Theocharis, seemed to me to be the same ones involved in the sale of Zakynthos mountains and included in the panel for criminal violations. I'd like you to confirm that if you can. If it's just a synonym, I mean. Mr Akiupis, of course, has left shadows for SYRIZA's decisions and executives in favour of the emir investment and SYRIZA's attitude when it was government. We ask that SYRIZA reply to what Mr Akiupis said, so that we can learn more. And obviously, if they don't, they'll take it down. But staying unanswered leaves a heavy shadow. The big question in this Chamber is this. We have two hundred families, eight hundred citizens, over eight hundred property contracts. Congressmen, MPs, this has now happened in the mountains of Zakynthos. Tomorrow can happen in the Serres. It can happen in your own regions, in the Dodecanese. It can happen in Epirus, Crete, the Peloponnese, Central, Thrace, anywhere. What's gonna happen? These people woke up one day and their ancestral earths didn't belong to them. Can you imagine that? Four villages. They went to their field and told them 'it's no longer yours'. Why? Did they sell it? Oh, no. Someone else sold it for them. Are we going to discuss this? These people have to go to court and reclaim their contracts. Will we bring this matter to the House? We're bringing it in. Are you interested in the rest of the parties? Is the government interested? It's a central issue for us. Finally, what we are bringing here with the amendment on "Saint of S.A." is like bringing back the question whether or not the government supports the investment of the allegedly Emir of Qatar. Do you support her? Yes or no? Are you going to answer us? There is now an adjunct calling for criminal prosecution of the parties involved. Do you keep supporting her, yes or no? Mr. Georgiadis has been placed in my timely question. He said, "I don't care, I don't care anymore, let them do what the people of Zakynthos want." Do you officially, the Minister of Tourism, the rest of you, you support it? Yes or no? What is the government's official position? Do you support the investment of the alleged Emir of Qatar or not? Let us remind you a little of what this amendment relates to. It's about, the government tells us, the rescue of the submerged shipwreck on the homonymous Zakynthos beach. How much does this rescue really cost? Will you pass the boat with a miniature? Are you going to make some kind of special construction? What's the cost? Are you going to tell us? You want to make a full anonymous company. I guess you've calculated the cost. I can't imagine you haven't calculated the cost. Will you do a company to do a project whose cost you haven't calculated? Will you tell us how much it is? You're also telling us that you're afraid of another man falling. We had a tragic event in 2017. She lost a woman's life. In the papers, there were a lot of scripts about the circumstances under which she lost her life. In any case, a woman lost her life. It's over. We only have seventeen people who died of drowning on the beaches of Zakynthos this year. If we count from 2017 to today, sixty-fold more people died on the beaches of Zakynthos by drowning. You want to tell us why this is not a problem for you and only mobilize in the case of one person? Good to mobilize every human being. But why don't you mobilize in sixty other cases? We question your motives, Minister, and on behalf of the government you represent. We question your motives. And they question and fight, and these citizens, the two families. And they question your motives, because they don't make sense. It doesn't make any sense to your inertia in so many deaths, and suddenly you're moving for one. You're doing well and mobilize. For the others? It doesn't make any sense that you're putting in front of the rescue of the shipwreck. You're telling us the destination's closed. We all know the world is gone. I've also given you pictures. People are going. You're telling us there's no insurance. There's a hundred and twenty feet [20 m] wall that happened in 1999. Are there going to be extra security measures? To be extra security measures. You need an S.A. Which you brought? Do we now need a special management and a management committee? What does it mean 'I take over?'. You tell us in such bills that your best management is to be given to the private. Is that what's going to happen here? Will it become a PPP or what the committee decides, as you usually say? Also, for the thermals you tell us that, if in six months' time the municipalities don't start using the thermal sources, you'll get them. This S.A. is gonna get it. I want to understand. This S.A. will also approve economic studies of the municipalities. An anonymous company will approve the economic studies of the municipalities and will reject them if it wants to, when it does not belong to it and does not have the data for this resource. How can an anonymous company control the public? Will you explain it to us? The EUR 28.5 million from the Recovery Fund will be taken by the municipalities, or will they go exclusively to ‘Hypatic Sources S.A.’? Will the seven very important sources of the EBRD also go to the ‘Medical Sources S.A.’ or do they not need to be because they are in the WID? Only the properties of the municipalities will you gather? I repeat the questions why no one's answering. As in the audience of bodies, you never answer for anything. Will you answer these questions? Are the sources of HIDE in his hands, will they go to medical hospitals, or will they stay at the HIDE? Are you going to answer us? We invite you to leave the sources at their place, in the management of the municipalities, to strengthen them at the level of technical competence, at the level of funding and to be able to do their work. What you're doing is taking interest and one after another you get every resource they have for development and you finally leave them nothing. Of course, for tour guides, what you include is the delight and decency of the tours. Honestly, who will control this decency and decency? Are we going back to the era of tediousism and minis? It is incomprehensible, at least delete it. And the article on how the "Iamatic Sources S.A." will control the economics of the municipalities is Article 3(2)(i), if you decide to delete it. We invite you to withdraw the provisions contained in this bill. I literally don't know what to name. In essence, they all need withdrawal: for the shipwreck and this new amendment, for the night, for the healing and how you get them from the local communities, for the photographic provisions for the major hotels, for tour guides, for the port of Heraklion, for the benefit of the Gouves and, at last, for the port, for the tourist port in Loutraki, which includes the important ancient ones, Diolkos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u412	Thank you. Do you want the rapporteurs to make a small contribution? Oh, no. Recorded. Minister, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u413	I'll close, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u414	You haven't spoken, Minister, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u415	No, I haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, I'm going to make a little report out of material because I saw Mr. Kikilia. I remember talking in April 2020, in its previous capacity, in this Chamber, and I think it has been a long time since. But if we have to keep one thing these two years of pandemic, it is, among other things, the history of epidemiological surveillance. Since the rapid test, molecular tests, we have been calling epidemiological surveillance free of charge for all, vaccinated and unvaccinated, so that pandemic can be checked. They didn't tell us what! That we close our eyes to the invaders, that we want the vaccinated to pay what the invaders should pay. Result: and with the negative development of mutations and delta and "Omicon" you are now recommending to all to perform tests and pay them. And I really do wonder, why should common sense be sought: why instead of making five billion direct assignments, Pesca list and other stories, do you not give the opportunity for free rapid test to all and wherever molecular, molecular, to become epidemiological surveillance? In other words, they do so by a large number of countries in Europe. Now, I'd like to come to the bill material as well. The shipwreck of Zakynthos in June you brought it as an article. Now, you are bringing it as an amendment. The trick is known. You did not want to go to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, you did not want to get into the committees, because in the second reading the bodies are coming, you did not want to enter the public consultation. Mr. Scandalides was right to say. that the years of innocence have passed for everyone. This is a wicked legacy, it's a rough legacy, it's an unacceptable legacy. What does this bill show? He's breathing an incredible concentration. Throughout Europe they decentralise resources, decentralise responsibilities, give self-government powers, give tools, really believe in the principle of proximity and subsidiarity. Everyone here announces them, they all say, they go to meetings with the CEDEFOP, they go to conferences, they say it, when it comes to legislating, it turns out the other way around. Because self-government in Europe can, in Greece permanently, say that it cannot. And this is an institutional and economic mutilation of local self-government in our country and it is developmental and it is a force of development retreat. It puts a brake on the development of this centralism. Now the fact that we have so many drawbacks bear witness to an incredible amateurism in the process of depositing the bill. And it seems that there is no specific strategy for the tourist product, but you are regressing. We have a bill that solves some procedural issues and settles some imperfections of previous laws. It does not, however, meet the needs of the world of tourism, which expects interventions that will be capable of reintroducing Greek tourism high in relation to the growing competition of the post-COVID era internationally. In other words, it does not solve the problems of the survival of workers, small and medium-sized tourist enterprises. It does not implement your own government's commitments to regional tourism, to upgrade tourism education or even to establish alternative forms of tourism. It introduces two main arrangements for the Destination Management and Viewing Organisations and the Healing Sources. The way in which the recommendation is made to the Organization for the Management and Promotion of Destinations, as well as the establishment of the company "Viatic Sources S.A." shows the government's policy that tries to control funding through development companies and anonymous companies, bypassing financial control and local government, by focusing control only at central level. In the way that the Government is setting up the Destination Management and Promotion Agencys, it creates structures through development, without know-how and staff that the only role they will have to perform is the control of funding possibly and through opaque procedures. It actually creates small shops without control. It obliges regions to provide projects that carry out experienced services effectively and are subject to a financial control system in development. A large window of economic interest in the management and promotion of tourist destinations is essentially opened. It takes responsibility for planning which is an extremely important political process from the elected bodies of the ATTs and delivers it to development without even controlling municipal or regional councils. A management board of a development council, not a municipal council or a regional council, will be able to decide on a destination. Here are issues of democracy, public money control and management. Is it possible now in Rhodes or Mykonos that you do not ask for the opinion of the district or municipal councils? Why are you doing this? So what's the real part with the TATs? Now for the "Miatic Sources of Greece S.A.", you set up this anonymous company and you grant the national resources to a public limited company that also has constitutional issues. We had strongly reacted to the original provisions of the bill, which was forcefully attempted to protect the property of the municipalities. And yes, some improvements have been made to the draft law, as regards the non-mandatoryness of the delivery of the public property to the public limited company and have entered a number of differences such as the decision to take municipal councils, but also with this regulation the core of the bill and ultimately the targeting remains the same. It creates another public limited company to which it gives all the possibilities that deprives it of the municipalities, gives the municipalities time to decide what to do with the sources, but without providing them with the appropriate legislative and financial tools and being legally led into the arms of the public limited company. The legal form of the public limited company itself gives the ultimate management of a public asset, of thermal resources, with transparent private economic criteria, thus bypassing the rules of sound financial management to the satisfaction of again specific financial interests. Minister, this is not how history goes with local government, with the central government, or with relations between them. I don't know where you've seen those models. There is nowhere in Europe. It's your discovery. It's a bad legacy. And all this should be adapted on the next day to another progressive governance in the European model with a strong role for self-government, with a strong development objective, with a strong involvement of local societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u418	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Zachariadis. Mr Xenophon Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Bartzokas, Mr. Tolkas and Mr. Maraveyas will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u419	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Tourism today brings to the vote a further bill with a positive development mark for our country concerning the organization and strengthening of our tourism product, from the very foundations of the Greek economy. We continue to give flesh and bone to the New Democracy's programming positions and, more specifically, to bring Greece to the top of the world tourist destinations. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces two interdependent organisational structures: the Interministerial Committee for the Design and Development of Standard Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management and the Local and Regional Observatory for Sustainable Tourism Development. At the same time, the local government is responsible for managing and promoting tourist destinations, and the procedure for including an area with a designation application submitted to the Department of Strategic Planning. The standard tourist destinations for integrated management are defined as areas which, due to their contribution to strengthening the country's tourist image, exist the need for special management. The designation of a region as such is based mainly on criteria such as the particular physical characteristics of the area, the natural and geomorphological environment, the potential to develop specific forms of tourism, the depth of adequacy and the level of accessibility for persons with disabilities and reduced mobility in these tourist infrastructures. Furthermore, important factors are the excellence of the road network, the proximity of ports and airports, the ratio of the total capacity of the destination in beds to the permanent population in the geographical limits of the destination, the average annual completeness of the destination's tourist accommodation, as well as the range of the tourist season. With regard to the second structure introduced, each destination management and promotion organisation may establish a local or regional observatory for sustainable tourism development in accordance with the model of the respective Ministry of Tourism. The aim of the observatory is to study the tourism market in order to draw concrete conclusions which will lead to proposals for targeted development measures in the region for which each observatory is responsible. It enables all the thematic sections of the domestic tourism product to be shown. The management and promotion bodies set up, widely known as DMOs, organisational and financial, are in the form of a public partnership with the private sector. The bill opens, through them, a new road that provides new advantages to the toolbox of the respective municipality or region in order to develop their own holistic programs for the entire range of their tourist product that will allow their region to enhance its visitability, but also to extend the tourist season. This is a regulation which was a key step in the achievement of the objective that we have set together with the tourism operators in Pieria and the OTAs for "PIERIA 365" which will create a dynamic tourism market throughout the year. For decades the Pieria Prefecture has been one of the crowns of the Greek tourist market. It is clear that it is a privileged place with regard to the natural and geomorphological environment with Olympus, the mythical mountain of the gods, a global symbol that time-consuming the crowds that flow to explore it, while at the same time it has numerous summer and winter tourist infrastructures with excellent possibilities for developing special forms of tourism. One would say that the organisational structures introduced by this bill also come to give Pieria, my place, a real perspective for its tourism development for all year round. But the bill doesn't stop there. It introduces, among other things, regulations which directly interested parties showed during the committees warmly welcome the spirit and direction in which they are moving. The arrangements concern tourist ports, road transport operators, tourist offices, tourist accommodation, tour guides and the "Tourism for All" programme, while in Articles 12 to 25 the bill comes to introduce the framework for the establishment of a public limited company called "Iamatic Sources of Greece". Health tourism is directly integrated with well-being tourism and healing treatments. The provisions in the second part of the bill focus on the essential and efficient management and exploitation of the natural health resources and sources of the country as well as their facilities as part of the property of the Greek State, while protecting the environment. Through this arrangement, I can personally see another opportunity to create for Pieria, in particular the Aliki Citres, where a crowd of people drags around for the healing muds. The overall upgrading of the structures, the redesign of the area, while strengthening the quality of the services provided and the organised approach to new markets can become a dynamic key to the development of health tourism and our region. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis with this draft law of the Ministry of Tourism continues to push our country into the development orbit that has been taking place since July 2019. They are also worth sincere congratulations to the Ministry's leadership and also to the EOT which was first organized and has already launched an advertising campaign for winter tourism in Greece. The present arrangements of the bill show the already existing natural wealth of Greece through movements that coordinate the fragmented efforts to promote the domestic tourism product. Tourism operators, tourism entrepreneurs and local authorities are invited to join the central government, under the coordination of the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism, and to create an irresistible brand, a strong global identity for Greek tourism and local competitive peculiarities. We'll only make it together. And the draft law we are voting on today lays the foundations for this dynamic cooperation for our country to be finally possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u420	Thank you for the time too. Mr Anastasios Bartzokas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill fills me with satisfaction, and I suppose that applies to everyone in this House. And I use this word as two days after the vote on the state budget, where our economic priorities and strategy for the coming year have been analysed, we are talking about the steam engine of the Greek economy and it is none other than tourism under a different perspective. Having made the assumption from the outset that the tourist model we've been applying in the country for decades, a model which has mostly been based on sun, sea and sand and which has admittedly been very successful is now saturated. We therefore conclude that the next page of Greek tourism should begin to be written as soon as possible. And precisely because the democratic bet of this time is prosperity and wealth creation for every citizen, I believe that the great tourist bet must show a similar theoretical analogy. Tourism development must incorporate every region, every municipality and every corner of Greece. And that is not arbitrary, it is a need indicated by global changes, a need that pandemic has further stressed. The slogan of the new tourist language is one: The journey is different. The trends in global tourism revolve around alternative forms of tourism, thematic tourism, around new destinations. They put the visitor at the centre and the experience he will get from the destination. They're setting the journey itself and anticipating it first. And in this light, the new promotion of this new philosophy, which is now in need, requires us to get away from the triumphant ones. The design of the new experience of the Greek destination requires modern tools. Mostly, however, it requires synergy. In its power together, political leadership, central and local government, as well as the private sector, must be united in order to design, implement and ultimately fruitful of the new model of tourism development. In this direction, the draft is under discussion, which establishes the concept of the model tourist destination for integrated management. It introduces two organizational structures the Interministerial Committee for the Planning and Development of Tourism Standards of Integrated Management and the Local and Regional Observatory. Local Government Organisations now become responsible for managing and promoting tourist destinations through existing local development agencies or their development agencies of public limited companies. So, in the first place, we have the synergy of a state and a municipality which is organised through the provision of this innovative institutional tool. In a second shot, TA I grades can be interconnected with the private sector, as each tourism management and promotion organisation has the potential to cooperate with tourist operators and airlines to advertise the tourist product. In addition, with a separate regulation of the bill, the regions of the country are taking a leading role in promoting regionally differentiated tourism products, as they will now be able to co-operate with the private sector in order to promote them. We are therefore passing from the time of the over-concentration of responsibilities and initiatives by the central state in local government and the private sector, which are perceived by the proximity of the country's geomorphology, its comparative advantages and the needs of local society, and which are also covered by a large gap, as tourist destinations with great dynamics that do not so far have a share of tourist pie, have the institutional tools to claim what they deserve. A characteristic example of such a case is my own place Imathia, Imathia of ancient Miezas, the School of Aristotle and the important Macedonian graves, Imathia with the important monument of Greek culture included in the list of UNESCO, the archaeological site of the Ages in Vergina and the famous Museum of the Royal Tombs. Imathia, therefore, could be the leading successful example of a tourist destination, because in addition to the radiation of its cultural heritage it can satisfy the most demanding traveler, the traveler who will wander along the routes of the city of Veria, in particular its old neighborhoods, Barbuta and Kyriotissa, the religious traveler who wants to visit saved Byzantine churches of unique beauty and history, the traveler who is interested in gastronomic and wine exploration because Imathia is an important crossroads of the streets of the wine of northern Greece and is famous for its raccoons. I don't accidentally make this short word traveling for my place. This is because Imathia, although it has all the conditions to emerge tourists, remains a well-hidden treasure, unfortunately, and not a well-usable element of the Greek tourist portfolio. And by making this point I would like to remind the Minister of his commitment to organising a conference in Imathia, so that all the institutions can work together and make this treasure precious to those to whom it belongs by making use of it at last tourists. I would also like to remind the Deputy Minister, Mrs Zacharaki, of my proposal to organise a wine attitude in Imathia by continuing this very nice initiative for the wine promotion of Greece, because even Imathia cannot be absent from the wine promotion of our country. From the promotion of alternative forms of tourism, the design and political will for the development of Imathia cannot be eliminated. From the standard tourist destinations cannot be missing. To close, therefore, our country can rise to the top of the destinations. After all, the stories of the world have begun to write here. Believeing that the arrangements of the bill contribute in this direction, as they raise the national effort in its power together, I am voting in favour and I urge all of you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u422	Thank you very much for the time, Mr President. As far as the rapporteurs are concerned, I would like to make it clear that you will have three minutes each. Mr. Tolkas has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, starting for today's bill that we are discussing instead of supporting and preparing specific programmes and strategies for alternative tourism and the mainland, which does not provide sun and sea, legislate something that is either left on paper, which is most likely or creates overcrowding in species of over-predictable tourist destinations. Instead of starting with a bill, a strategy for alternative tourism to be critical for whole regions, to integrate it into the tourism industry and strengthen it by decentralising visitor flows you come and enter settings, which will in fact relate only to well-known and unexplained destinations leaving the province at the edge of the country as a whole. The only arrangement you make for mountain tourism is to extend the license for ski resorts for one year. Minister, I must stress the priority of the New Democracy government programme, the systematic emergence of alternative forms of tourism. That's great! The State Secretary, Mrs Zacharakis, on 16 March 2021, at a teleconference with the POX, but also on 5 November of the same year, this year, at a conference on mountain tourism in Lake Plastira in Karditsa, said the following and I will submit it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angelos Tolkas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says there: "Winter tourism, not only in winter, is a huge unique national opportunity to develop." We agree. "In the next few days it is completed by the services of the Ministry, for the first time, a specific proposal for the effective development of this form of tourism, namely mountainous. At the same time we make use of one of the most valuable tools in our hands for the recovery of our economy, the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Ski resorts and shelters will be financed. "At the same time", Mrs Zacharakis continues, "the Ministry at last assumes responsibility for coordinating its action with the other co-operating ministries and we will adopt - and closes - a national strategy aimed at the effective and sustainable development of protected tourist areas that are part of the NATURA 2000 network". These are among others for mountain tourism. Minister, Imathia can indeed become an example of alternative tourism, with different possibilities offered by its rich environment and nature. It has additional retrospective centers, Shelly and the 3-5 Pigadia, two structures that boosted our region over the past few decades, which stimulated the economic activity of the entire prefecture and the focus businesses, hotels and commercial shops, which have helped to develop activities, always in combination with our special love for the resort, the mountain and nature, which have shown dozens of athletes and champions, who have been linked to the particular identity and nature of the area. Today both ski resorts are not in the advertising campaign and especially the 3-5 Pigadia this year do not work, while it is a classic mountain destination. Naoussa is being deceived. The tourist season is being dismantled and limited to almost one week. Ask our hotel owners. Tens of reservations have been cancelled. The destination loses its value. The local economy is deprived of any revenue and will require many years to return this destination. Your Government, Minister, is responsible for this because of the great lies of Mr. Adoni Georgiadis, the Minister of Development. It is Mr Georgiadis who, in May 2020, Minister - and if you do not know it, listen to it - had been publicly registered and is registered EUR 10.7 million for infrastructure at the 3-5 Pigadia Ski Centre and even after the Prime Minister's resignation. He says it in public. However, with my question of 423 last October, all the services of the Ministry of Development replied that no such funds have been provided, not even a plan for the ski centre. Mr. Georgiadis was arrested falsely, Imathotis State Secretary for Finance and Government MPs with other priorities. Can you imagine the Minister of SYRIZA had done that? It would've been the bad thing! If you had given this money as a government, the ski resort today would have been working. We demand, with the whole local society, that mockery stop. We demand that you take action, as you have announced about infrastructure in ski resorts. It's in what I testified. We demand that these 10.7 million be given to support a wealthy source of the region, which will give breath to all of Imathia. We call on the entire government to stop the deportation of Imathia and the local parliamentarians from taking their responsibilities even now. Consider the important problems of our prefecture, as we had done for the development of SYRIZA and strengthened the cultural and tourist product of Naoussa, both by the integration of customs into intangible cultural heritage and by the concession of important cultural monuments to the municipality. Minister of Tourism, as coordinator of the action for other co-responsible ministries, as mentioned above, you are responsible for informing us whether and where you will finance the ski resort with 10.7 million, when the entire Recovery Fund, as you say and write, has 46 million euros for mountain tourism. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Do you know that while you are talking about highlighting protected areas that are part of the NATURA 2000 network, the investments of wind parks in Bermín are entering the NATURA area? And finally, when will this infamous proposal to develop mountain tourism, which goes from day to day, when we are in the middle of the season and after two and a half years of governance of the New Democracy? Also, Minister, I shall refer to another issue in the bill that is coming today. Provide for the visiting brewery’s brand, cheese mill’s olive oil, pet-friendly tourist accommodation. Really, Minister, what is the need for the Ministry of Tourism to serve standardisation functions? Who's the body? Do you know that there is a standardisation body in the country, is the Greek Standardisation Agency, the ELOT linked to international standardisation and speaking with all the relevant institutions of the countries? He, ELO, gives international recognition and visibility even to national quality marks. The signal of accessible tourist destination is also provided. There is already the ELO's 1439 2013 mark, Minister, which is about the accessibility of disabled people to businesses and shops. Why don't you use it? Why do you avoid the normal institutional standardisation procedure for the establishment of a national trade mark by ELO? Is it because it is in its rules to create a participatory and representative council that lays down the rules for the creation of the trade mark and by extension of the standardisation? Is it because you want the signal to be completely controlled by you and where it will be awarded, creating relationships of dependency? This bill also has features that your Government has, directly assignments, advertising and organizational spending funds in a reasonable bargain, excluding from the legislation on the management of public property services of major interests, budgetary irresponsibility, centralised bureaucracy instead of decentralisation of powers and the bleeding of public funds at the expense of the next generations. We are voting against this because we demand such bills to be divulged by respect for the money of the Greek people and the wealthy sources that belong to and are for everyone, respect for the environment, sustainability and sustainability, accountability to local communities for the use of all infrastructures and decentralisation and locality that corresponds to the interests of each region and divides wealth. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u424	Thank you. Now Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy and then we still have two fellow speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must thank the Minister's political leadership and the person of the Minister, Mr Kikilia and Mrs Loizou for coming with today's bill to incorporate a series of proposals, not only from parliamentarians, but also from local bodies for the rational planning and development of the region. A prominent place in this organisational framework is the establishment of the local regional Sustainable Tourism Development Observatory, an innovation that I have supported in the northern Sporades since the beginning of my term as MP Magnesia. I am delighted, therefore, that today the relevant Ministry is coming to regulate the operation of this institution, to generalize it, but also to make it a key tool for the strategic planning of tourism development at regional level. The creation of such local observatories is possible through their connection with two other institutions, the Standard Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management and the Management and Promotional Organisations, which will have as their common reference the relevant local government agencies. This is a political choice which correctly conveys, on the basis of the principle of proximity, the responsibility for the OTAs, since they are better aware of the local needs, the problems and the potential for the development of their regions. Thus, the management and promotion of tourist destinations will be carried out through the Development Bodies of Local Government or the development of public limited companies of the LAGs themselves, which have the necessary experience and flexibility in the project management. In Magnesia, for example, a lot of work has been done on the theme "recognising the identity of tourist areas", on the brand awarness, such as the northern Sporades, but also on Pelion. It is indeed original tourist destinations where the integrated management tool will also play a decisive role in their further development. The unique features of these areas, such as the natural beauty, the unique geomorphology and the cultural environment that offer visitors make them integrated management tourist destinations modelled. Of course, a title is not always enough by itself. For this reason, the Ministry rightly includes provisions in this bill to support the relevant ATTs in the promotion and promotion of their destinations on the international tourist markets. And here, of course, it is essential that the relevant data have been collected and processed through the relevant observatories of sustainable tourism development. Thus, the bill provides for these responsibilities, such as objective information on the whole of the tourist products available at their destination and their competitiveness, analysis of the available packages in terms of attractions, accessibility, transport, facilities, accommodation, tourist services, as well as other available activities and supportive public structures, as well as research on important issues of tourism, such as market analysis and the approximation of new markets, including accessible tourism and so on. Each destination management and promotion organisation may now establish such a local or regional observatory for sustainable tourist development precisely for the purpose of studying the tourist market and presenting proposals to highlight all possibilities of the local tourist product. Minister, another part of the bill, namely Article 42, but also part of the amendment you tabled, concerns the organisation of training and training programmes for staff in tourism. And here I would like to acknowledge the efforts of the Ministry and especially the State Secretary responsible, Mrs Zacharakis, who recently gave the opportunity to participate in projects of subsidized retraining of a thousand two hundred fifty workers and temporary unemployed in the tourist industry in eighteen regions of Greece, including Magnesia. Thus, permanently demanding tourist industry, such as training, lifelong training and thus adapting its human resources to the modern challenges of the international tourism market, are now coming out of the drawer and entering the top priorities of the Ministry's political leadership. They are subsidised projects that help both workers and the temporary unemployed of the industry to acquire new knowledge and skills by strengthening their personal professional profiles, but also by giving tourist businesses a competitive advantage in a market with ever greater demands for quality services in Greece and internationally. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to address two issues of topical and urgent importance, however, to be addressed with regard to tourism and the consequences of the pandemic. First of all, I would like to refer to Article 43 on the extension and repayment of the benefits of the tourism programme for all, which is necessary because of the difficulties created by the fourth wave of the koruna in tourism. Thus, you are quite right to state that the sums paid by the Ministry of Tourism for the payment of benefits remain unaccompanied, inconsistent and inconsistent in the hands of the public or third parties by way of derogation from any general and special provision. The second point to which I wish to dwell in the medical capacity that unites us and the Minister has to do with the measure whose implementation started yesterday and concerns those who come to the country. It is now necessary by 10 January 2022 for both vaccinated and unvaccinated travellers to be diagnosed negatively in a PCR test within seventy-two hours or in a rapid test within twenty-four hours prior to their arrival in Greece. The new measures will also apply to children from five years old and over. Some criticisms and criticisms have been heard from tourist entrepreneurs, which I am sure are minority and are clearly due to a lack of understanding of the measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So today we are giving an opportunity, and from this point of view, to tell our fellow citizens that this exceptional and temporary measure is being taken by the government because of the spread of the Koron mutation, a variant that we do not yet have all the data, and so we must be double and three-fold careful. What we have seen so far is that it appears as a more contagious version of the coronary, which requires us to earn more time, as much as we can, by preventing its spread in our country. This is the only reason to tighten the conditions for entry for travellers and not, of course, to block winter tourism. So all of us must make a special contribution in view of the celebrations to halt the spread of the coronary and especially this new strain, thereby protecting not only our tourism product, but above all public health in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy is now called to Stepma. Then we'll go to Mr. Yannis Burnus online and follow a few minutes' speeches by the rapporteurs. In the end, we will be closing down with the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to discuss another important bill, a bill with tourism, one of the most important areas for our country, as it defines its economic and development path. Its importance is reflected in the configuration of our country's GDP, which reaches 25%. In the years of the crisis, tourism was an impediment to the recession and unemployment, leading our country to positive growth, a rate that fuelled significant investment interest and managed to maintain our country stable economic and socially. After this ten - year economic crisis, our country faced the pandemic. The Greek Government worked hard and managed to apply to the world of tourism a web of protection that was and remains extremely necessary in order to be able to absorb an unprecedented crisis, which we have not experienced in the past decades, a framework of protection that includes support for liquidity, but also support for entrepreneurs and workers in the tourism sector and a framework with an ally the vaccine against the pandemic that allows us today to be optimistic at a critical global time. The huge battle for public health, the management of major natural disasters as a result of also climate change, the need for modern policies that will create new jobs, support for all professionals and businesses are challenges for which we are called upon to take measures immediately, coordinatedly and effectively. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Tourism, which we are debating today, is moving a bill with a purely development mark that strengthens the image of our country and comes to respond to the modern needs of a sustainable tourism product. 2019 was indeed the best year of Greek tourism in terms of revenues, but also in terms of arrivals of tourists. In that year the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises talked about the need to change the country's tourist model and about a different recovery strategy. And I have to say that we really agreed on this and we all agree, at least most. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has a unique natural wealth which in many areas remains untapped or not as exploited as it should be. New Democracy launched government planning in 2019 giving priority to tourism. "Greek at the top of destinations" was the title under which the New Democracy programme for tourism started by emphasising that the industry is a key pillar in the government planning of the Prime Minister itself. As far as the results of this plan are concerned, I will only mention that the Greek economy has a cumulative growth of 11.7% for the years 2021 - 2022. This development is largely based on the best of the initial anticipated tourist season. These, of course, are in combination with other factors. This line comes to contribute this bill by introducing two basic innovations: the introduction of flexible tools and the linking of forces through the Management and Promotion Agencys of Destination and the organised development of well-being tourism. These innovations will boost tourist development and ensure the quality of the tourist product by addressing years of issues. Significant tourist destinations in our country face a large number of complex development challenges. A framework for cooperation between the public and private sectors, local government and central government shall be established through the end-user organisations to ensure strategic continuity in the promotion of tourism products and quality assurance. The standard tourist destinations for integrated management contribute decisively to the use of the comparative advantages of each region, to high rates of tourist development and, in general, to the development of our country. The second innovation of the bill relates to the establishment of the public limited company "Imperial Sources of Greece". Healing sources are currently subject to multiple fragmented ownership and concession regimes. The institution established will be responsible for its recognition, exploitation and management. The central aim of the Ministry of Tourism is to develop thermal, thermal or well-being tourism in the country that will attract new visitors, strengthen the sustainable management of thermal sources and contribute to the creation of added value in GDP and the extroversion of the country. The ultimate objective is to achieve holistic and sustainable tourism development, to activate private investment funds and to support the achievement of the objectives of regional development. The main role of this whole process, ladies and gentlemen, is the regions of the country, which have unparalleled beauty destinations that the traveller, especially the one coming from abroad, has to visit. Elias Prefecture is one of the prefectures of the country with comparative advantages. The thermal sources of Loutra Cyclones and Caiafa are two of them, two particularly landscapes, both in terms of beauty and ecologically. The Cyclones and Kaiafas are parts which have enormous potential for development and for which the greatest possible use is required, what really accounts for them as unique sites of global interest and in this exploitation we must focus on in order to make appropriate contributions to their promotion. But I'd like to make a special report about Kaiafa. A great advantage for our country, which during the period of SYRIZA rule remained untapped. Recently, after my intervention for the area, a reference has been made by SYRIZA officials to allegedly sell the ecosystem that will harm the collective benefit. It is truly regrettable and a blow to our place to sound such outdated logic about private initiative, a political refusal of reality. In particular, in order to take advantage of the specific location for which I have been taking up my duties since the very first time in 2019, I made an intervention in order to reoperate non-functional baths because they were not licensed. For the first time, they were recognised as thermal sources in 2019 with the Government of New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country's already distinguished proposals, which will be financed by the Recovery and Resilience Fund, there are actions to tourism EUR 23 million, including health tourism and welfare tourism. The Ministry of Tourism has prioritised the promotion of thermal tourism through an institutionalised framework for the recognition of thermal resources, recognizing until today eighty natural resources, as thermals, including the Cylinnamon Bathrooms and Kaiafas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This bill comes to strengthen the further use of all these natural sites, pointing out that it is necessary to intervene in environmental and eco-tourism systems that their proper emergence has to give much to our local and national economy. We must therefore support such initiatives that will give further impetus to our country by increasing its comparative advantages, creating new prospects for our country and our children. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u428	Thank you. Mr Burnus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill concerning the country's heavy industry, a bill dealing with strengthening tourism development and carrying out more than a year's work. "And he came to me": very bad for nothing. Completely falsified reinforcement of the tourist development you put under the title of the bill. Full lack of plan for the next day of tourism, for their professionals and families. A bill setting a number of management issues in the tourism sector, but without opening a way to the sustainable reconstruction of tourism. Your only pursuit in this bill, as in almost all the Mitsotakis government bills, is the scandalous service of your friends. You do not even know - or at least you do at least show no interest in - the concept of the regional government which especially in tourism is considered to be a factor of development from the outset. You are creating, you say, anonymous companies in Athens, instead of, in accordance with international tourist planning practice, to strengthen the management powers of self-government. Go ahead, despite the intense reactions that forced you back in the past, to establish an anonymous company for the medical sources in the capital. Why don't you choose a point of reference for health tourism? The reason is simple: you want to gather everything next to you, near the ultimate state of private interests. It is therefore lacking in the bill under discussion to draw up a national tourism strategy containing a sustainable development framework, with actions to address the structural problems of Greek tourism. There is no national strategy that will introduce new dimensions in the tourism product, strengthen tourism education, eliminate the uncertainty of employment in tourism, effectively allocate the spatial-time concentration of tourist activity, promote the creation of resilient and modern infrastructures and promote forms of tourism that do not lead to overexploitation of natural resources. There is no national strategy which will include individual regional tourist development strategies, depending on the particular cultural, environmental and productive characteristics of each region. These are, as a general comment on the 'patchwork' bill you are bringing to the vote, which is, unfortunately, just one patch in the troubled work of tourism. In particular, I will dwell on the second part of the bill on the establishment of the public limited company called "Miatic Sources of Greece", an issue that your predecessor, trying to surprise everyone, attempted to bring to this Chamber without consultation at the beginning of the year, but after the catastrophic and intense reactions, has been turned into an unscrupulous retreat. So you come back with some meaningless changes that do not change the government's original plan at all, that is, slowly, the healthier sources of the country in private hands. Likewise, the euphemism of new provisions continues to be far from the expressed need to support the municipalities in order to upgrade and exploit the greenhouses, while basically not abandoning the plan to strengthen municipal areas and facilities. And while it is a common assumption that heating in our country must develop and contribute with its great potential for tourism development, you choose to do so in the most unnecessarily and undeveloping way, with centralization and privatisation. I would like to point out that I come from a place with six metropolitans, and remind you that in 2006, by law of Mrs Petralia, particularly costly, time-consuming and dashing procedures for the recognition of natural health resources have been imposed, which have not only delayed their recovery and upgrading efforts, but have also led to the closure of several hot baths until they have been certified. And while we would expect local government to rely on, so that after recognition of their authorisations, they are currently faced with the provisions under discussion that effectively remove a fillet of their resources, an integral element of the tourist planning. A company is recommended in a few words to the standards of GOEDD to make use of public property through privatisation. You're following the mocked composition as well. The fact that, while initially provided for in Article 18(1) and (2), that 80% of IT's capital belongs to the State with shares that are not transmitted, by means of paragraph 5 of that Article, provides that public participation may not be less than 50%. You are well aware that this 50% is insecure and in no way binding on you, after your government recently in a series of legislation has divested far more important assets of the public and the citizens of the country which were governed by similar, insecure provisions such as PPC. If your main aim was to develop heating and welfare tourism, you would choose a different path. You could create regional heating systems that are integrated into regional tourism systems with a focus on well-being. You could use the country's specific geological characteristics to develop additional activities to complement heating, contributing to the creation of permanent jobs. You could upgrade tourist education by introducing sections of heat and well-being. You could update legislation in order to take account of international developments around tourism and well-being and give local communities the opportunity to benefit from its development. You could, but you don't want to. All you want is to sell public property with a Trojan horse to growth. What you have been seeking is to grant the large and medium-sized sprinkles to people, what you have been doing for two and a half years not only in tourism, but everywhere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u430	Thank you very much. We are now going in reverse with the rapporteurs. Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u431	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, do you accept that the beach of Zakynthos does not extend sixty meters over the sea and fifteen meters back? Yes or no? Because that's what you're writing. This is the altar for which a committee is being set up at the moment. Do you have an estimate of the costs for the maintenance of the "Panagiotis", the temple, i.e. the illegal cigarette, on the homonymous beach of the shipwreck in Zakynthos? Does it or does it not support the investment of the alleged Emir of Qatar? Mr. Akiupis left shadows for the sale of the so-called emir. Do you see them too, Minister? What does your Member mean? Mr. Akiupis left shadows on SYRIZA's governance and the case of selling. We also ask SYRIZA to seize the opportunity and respond to them. Two hundred families, Minister, and eight hundred citizens must claim from zero the property of their property. Will you do something about this? We're talking about four villages in the mountains of Zakynthos. As far as healing is concerned: Six months for recovery you give the municipalities. How will an anonymous company approve the technical studies of the municipalities whose implementation is not financed? Isn't that a distortion of competition? What is going to happen with the seven healings found at the GOEDD, such as the Kathedar Vurla, the Thermopylae, the Enthusiasm and more. For tour guides, will you get back the jokes about decency and decency? Who's going to check these? We live in the era of tennis and mini? We know that you will not respond, which is why we have set you three times in this procedure and three more in the committees. But you won't answer that. We are doing this to see the citizens too, to see how you want the self-helpful management of public goods with amendments at night. We are voting against everything that you have brought about the shipwreck and all the issues that we have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u432	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u433	I thought it was Mr. Villard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u434	Mr. Villards?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u435	I'm in the position of Mr. Villard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u436	You've taken Mr. Villardou's place. How should we know? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u437	We are voting against this bill because there is a centralism in terms of health tourism. In other words, we will have first and second speed thermal sources. From that point on, there are all these concerns from the Secretary of the CEDEFOP as far as the Mayor of Kythnos is concerned that he should be financed by the State of Healing Sources, by the Secretary-General of the Association of Municipalities of the CEDEFOP, Mr Dana, who also speaks of funding otherwise they cannot be viable, Mr. Minister, but also by the President of the Association of Healing Greeks, Mr. Zeis Angelides, who also expresses the same anxiety. I am pleased that on the report we have identified the geothermal field as a Greek solution. I gave you an example of Nigrita-Hraclea-Siderokastro's geothermal field. It is an opportunity to overcome Law 4602/2019 and at last geothermality to be an RES, to be a renewable source of energy and not a mining activity. As far as shipwreck is concerned, we are concerned, Minister. The Zelides study from the University of Patras for the rifts in this area to the Corinthian region and to the Adriatic and the Ionian, that is, more generally. And the second is Mr. Marouki's studying office, which invokes journalists such as Mr. Xenos in Zakynthos, who has prepared a study that there is no ayalos at this point, is a certain line from Kefalonia and the rest of the islands of Istanbul. So what do these make-up and composition suitors want with this committee? For what? Yes, he won't lose the island's income because it's a terrible location, but he can't be a cavalry. The scene can be photographed for the scenery, but the cavalry creates many questions. That is why as a Greek Solution we are voting against with many suspicions and asterisks this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u438	Just, Mr. Booba, let's do this to you. We were told that you would vote, not that you would be a speaker in the position of Mr Villard. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u439	From the moment, Mr President, there is no other representative, I must also speak on the ideological cruise of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u440	Yeah, don't go on right now. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President. We have of course reasoned, because we are voting 'no' in the bill. We have another perception of tourism. It must be a right for the workers and the people. And you and with this bill make it even more expensive, unaccountable to the vast majority of our people. We vote 'no' because, on the one hand, when we say tourism, we mean the great tour operators, the large groups of tourists, who actually have very great profits. And if we take tourism over the last few years, it is constantly growing with many billions of euros that we are hearing, with millions of tourists coming, with new investments that are being made and, on the other hand, we have the workers, those who make the Lanza - to say so - who are living worse and worse, with worse working conditions, with worse pay, with labour intensification, with 16 forms of employment and now redundancies. These days - as I said in my speech - employers and cooperation and that there is no such protection today against redundancies, they are constantly redundant workers. So not everyone wins from tourism. Tourism here means strengthening the large multinationals. So you cannot agree with this bill where 'fillets' areas are characterised as standard tourist destinations for integrated management that are at the service of business groups, where other mechanisms beyond the EOT, management and promotion organisations will be tools for those of the major tourist groups, where arrangements for large complex accommodations will have higher rates of construction, will be able to intervene in the woods where the healing sources are privatised. Of course, there is also the amendment which does not address any other issue. On the other hand, it is faced with problems of large tourist enterprises again. On the contrary, they are workers, the self-employed, the small-owners, the small-enterprises. So it is a bill that serves the choices and demands of the great tourism and is against the people as a whole because it lacks the right to tourism. But the work he does is a full-time job - as mentioned earlier - that I live for at least forty years and I know very well how the situation in tourism has evolved overall.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u442	Thank you. He has the floor, Mr. George Francis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been waiting for this bill for a long time, but unfortunately it has not satisfied us as it has come. I am talking about the Standard Tourism Destinations for Integrated Management, for the creation of DMOs, where we see that the criteria that enter the design are unclear. Of course, there are also some significant deficiencies that have arisen from the bill of consultation with the municipalities of less than fifty thousand people who cannot have one-participating companies in order to be able to respond to the need for the DMO. There are competences for municipalities, but there are no funding and we know very well what economics are in the municipalities and how the municipalities are both logistically and from know-how, so that they can respond to these needs. And, of course, at the end of the final final final judge is the Minister. We disagree with that and these articles will not be voted on. Also, in relation to medical sources, there is one logic. The logic says that two kinds of municipalities cannot be made in the whole process, namely those belonging to the IP and those not owned by the IP, and therefore those belonging to the IP will be favoured. We believe that all these things, decisions, should be made closer to society as they can, that there should be the principle of subsidiarity and, of course, that gain, that economic, tourist, all growth should be a profit for local communities. Also in the legislative improvements to some articles, unfortunately, like this, the RESEARCH in Article 53, you have not incorporated them. Finally, with regard to the amendment, we have said all this in our prototype. I'll say one thing, and I'll close. I sincerely regret the government's policy and tactics to bring amendments, and indeed such amendments as Zakynthos, which were removed from the bill that was in consultation and which came to an evening in order not to listen to anyone. So I say it is unacceptable and this tactic has been entangled. The whole process is being circumvented, which gives the right and the possibility of a close debate on both the members of the committee and the bodies. And, of course, at the end of the day, it seems that it is also insulting and insulting all the Members who are participating in this committee. Because it cannot be vital topics such as the shipwreck of Zakynthos, to be removed first, not to listen to the operators and to come overnight here to vote on it. That is why we are voting against the amendment in its entirety, even though it has some articles, such as COVID and the hospitals, which are there yes, we agree and we would vote on if it were to come separately according to an article. But it comes to totality and you give the carrot and the whip and so you force us, because it dominates the shipwreck of Zakynthos, not to vote for the amendment in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u444	Thank you. Mrs. Notopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the saddest finding today is that the government still has no contact with the reality and the problems of tourism. A second equally painful finding, however, is that your Government did not have a plan for tourism and has not understood what a destination is going to say. That the destination requires the synergy of all levels of governance, requires the participation and partnership of the local society, the public and private sectors. It's the environment, it's the environment, but human resources, if you want, it's the climate, it's natural resources. All the things you're in a hurry to put aside. And how? Privatizing the wealth of the Greek people. This bill is against it because it constitutes a direct attack on the local government, whose property you are guarding from the back door, without giving any tools at all, without using the NRP, without using the Recovery Fund. You take the medical sources today and tomorrow who knows what else. Truly, Minister, the GOI has about twenty-nine thermal sources in its management. Why hasn't one been exploited? Fifty-one thermal sources have been identified by us during our governance period. You haven't learned anything at all. You are only in a hurry to bring bad last minute amendments - which obviously will not be able to serve your own plan - for the shipwreck of Zakynthos. But you have excluded citizens from consultation, you have excluded local society, you have excluded local government. Today, your executives have been lying a lot of lies, one lie behind the other. You are not answering anything because no protection measures are being introduced today. You know very well that we need an Interministerial Committee to take responsibility for direct protection measures and run matters faster. You know very well that we need a management body that is involved in all local communities. Minister, I will close with this: you cannot continue to legitimise and settle scandalous direct assignments because at the moment our country is in danger of being punished. You know very well that what you're doing is illegal. I am referring to the direct assignments of the EOT. We are not surprised by what you are doing because the whole bill is your anxiety to share funding through studies, through advertising. I'm sure it's not the destination. Definitely not Greek tourism. I'm sure it's not the small and medium-sized business, which is drowned from the exact point of view, by the pandemic's debts, by the bad situation that you brought it from the very fast closing of the season. It is certainly not the world of tourism, which is starving and facing a survival problem today. You are far too far away and you and your bill from the problems of Greek tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u446	Thank you. Mr Themistoklis Himaras has the floor from New Democracy and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. I was not going to give any answers, ladies and gentlemen, but it is causing me the fact that you are referring to HICP and to health sources. I would like to inform the House that in 2015 I was the Vice-President of the Region of Central Greece and almost every week I was on the steps of TEAD to push through the competitive procedures for the thermal sources of the Region of Central Greece. I do have the habit of having a tablet with me and writing. And regrettably since 2015, Minister, who made the first meetings, I went back to 2019, and in 2017, and in 2018 as an elected MP to make a meeting, to see where the competitive procedures are for the use of the Hepatic Region of Central Greece. And I opened my note and it was just the flaws themselves. It is challenging - I am not used to it - to mention what we are doing now with the TIAD, where I must inform you that in 2022 we will have the first three competitions, because we have fallen above these works. And I am not used to what I said to you before, because it is my belief that what unites us is far more than what separates us, and I say it at every place in plenary. Why should we finally be united in developing synergies, which are served through the first part of the bill on the Primary Tourism destinations of Integrated Management, synergies between all those involved in the field of tourism, and self-government, and private individuals, and of course the central state. We should all be proud of the fact that, for the first time, we are creating a company that sees health sources and their exploitation as a whole because that is the aim of health sources. They've heard terrible things here today. It is a tool that the "Miatic Sources of Greece S.A." can be exploited by municipalities - it does not store any property from the municipality - so that as a country we can see health tourism, heating, as a product that can attract visitors twelve months a year, three hundred and sixty-five days a year, to expand our tourism product to alternative forms of tourism. I felt the same beautiful way when I heard Mr Akuppi's position as my colleague, because very absurd things have been heard here too. We have heard a man who has spoken to you from the heart, a man who bears responsibility, who lives there, who deals there. He frankly spoke to you about the real use made by this government in the matter of the shipwreck of Zakynthos. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the political leadership of the Ministry of Tourism and Mrs Zacharakis and Mr Kikilia, but also your predecessors and Mr Consola and Mr Theocharis, and to tell you that it is due to the success of the Greek tourism to date and to the actions of the Minister who is here, Mr Kikilia, who as Minister of Health managed to have 'green' our country and managed to have the right to attract visitors, like Mr Theocharis, who gave his own struggles in this last difficult period of pandemic so that tourism can have positive effects. We are voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u448	Thank you very much. Nice color, Mr. Himara, it's true. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from 13.00 p.m. to 22.10 p.m., I have listened carefully to them all. I am also very grateful, Mr Himara, for the role you played in presenting the bill and in the Committees and in the plenary, but also for the other colleagues, despite the opposite views, proposals, positions, constructive proposals or not. It doesn't matter. That is the role and manner of parliamentaryism and the magic, if you like, of coexistence of all. I think we all end up serving, as I hope, the interests of the Greek people. There's no doubt about it. We are judged by what we say here in contrast to what prevails outside in real society, in the real economy. With this bill, and with our policies over the last two and a half years, we have been strategically coming to support the country's tourism product and tourist experience in a special way, which has de facto changed because of the pandemic, offering what the traveller has sought and sought for the last two and a half years, the two summers that preceded and the next one, namely security. I would remind you that in the summer of 2020 the other Mediterranean destinations did not open, they were closed. We, with a programme of multiple testing, quarantine hotels, quarantine doctors, reference hospitals, interconnection with hospitals and health centres of the islands and tourist destinations, over seven thousand people, who have been transferred to the islands, have dared and managed to have revenue from tourism, even what we had at the very difficult time of the crisis. Of course, in 2021, over and above every expectation, the revenues entered in the budget were between 5 and 6 billion. We have reached the tenth month with such numbers that make us optimistic that we will exceed 10 billion revenues from tourism with very great satisfaction in the country, in the small business, in the rooms, in the hotels, in the accommodations and in all professions that operate around our tourism product that is indeed the "motor" of the Greek economy and offers directly or indirectly 25%, 1 out of 4 euros in the country's GDP. What comes to cut out this bill that we have brought and which I hope will be passed in an hour's time in the Greek Parliament? Of course, a strategy that spreads a network of tourist development tools across all regions. It is common secret that two and a half regions take the burden of revenue and visiting tourists and travellers over the years on Greek territory and should not be that way, because this is a huge asset for us, that we are number 5 tourist brand worldwide and that is what we will ensure as an eye daughter, so we come initiatives in the next time and to defend and further support these tourist brands that we have and a strategy that has to do in the way of ensuring these conditions, but there are the other regions of the country and the rest of the country and the other regions of unparalleled beauty, good cultural, religious, alternative, gastronomical and we must show. Some of these are obviously our medical sources. Don't make fun of each other. There's been a bad job so far in everything that's got to do with the medical sources. My colleague speaks to you with this anxiety because he has really been excited about this. It's been a permanent problem for many years. The municipalities could not be exploited in the way they needed the medical sources. I would like to say that, so far, neither the other tools that have been created have been able to exploit the healing sources as they should. This is a global criticism. Are we getting the property of the municipalities from the municipalities? No, of course not. Please read the provisions of the bill very much when we want to comment politically. Do we give the municipalities, as long as the CEDEFOP has requested, ample time to develop their tourism product on health sources, if they wish, on their own? Of course. We're giving them the tools to do it? Of course. If this is not possible, in a direct connection with the RRF - I will explain what I mean, because the fellow Member has asked if there is funding for all of this - we are allowing an anonymous company to manage the medical sources and of course return the dividend to local communities. We bring 320 million from RRF precisely for these tools, ports, marinas, ski resorts, healthier sources, access to HEIs, digitization of tourism and through processes such as having created a task force in the Ministry of Tourism. I should also like to thank the Deputy Secretary-General Sophia Zacharakis for the very great effort, but also his former Minister and his colleagues for what they have done all this time. There is, of course, - and you said it and I agree - a continuity in administration. I am not one of the politicians who come to level what their predecessors have done, even if the predecessors were from another political party. The strategy and tools net spreads with DMOs, local tourism management organisations along with the Tourism Observatory throughout the country and in winter destinations. For this reason, we really started our campaign abroad for winter destinations on Friday. "Why, Minister, did you start your campaign a few days before Christmas celebrations?" But it's not about Christmas celebrations. There, as you can see, there is completeness in the majority of winter destinations. Our strategy of the four months that we will cover winter destinations, alternative destinations, city break, and it has always been traditionally the difficult months for tourism, is what is worthwhile and the opportunity that all regions and all municipalities in the country will have to see to it reflect their efforts in foreign and internal promotion. "But there is the Omicon mutation and the situation is very difficult." And because this is the case, does the Ministry of Tourism not have to support these destinations, give the best possible, promoting safety and vaccination and health protocols, as we have done for three years? That is why the country has this brand, which is why we all trusted it abroad, and we have basically changed the image of the country from outside to inside with the Prime Minister. That is why anyone from the public administration goes and has a place of responsibility abroad, we give the credit. Is this an easy situation that we are experiencing today? No, but don't we have to give these people and those destinations all over the country to fight and try? I am sure that after a very great effort we are going to make, the next year will be the year of the regeneration of Greek tourism. Watch out now. We have brought an amendment. I have told you sincerely that on the basis of all the things I have studied carefully that you have submitted for all these months, I would like and would like to find a way to deal with the immediate and urgent matter. I was honest with what I told you. You are not honest with me and against us when you say that this bill has not been discussed enough or when you say that there is something behind this amendment, when the amendment clearly says for the management of the demarcated zone - it comes from the law, it is defined by the Ministry of Finance - to protect the environment, to avoid the risk of collapse of the temple, to maintain it, to secure the paths of access to it and to protect visitors. Who is this five-member committee? As Mr Akippis quite rightly said, which I honour for his struggles and efforts, of the five members of the committee, the four are Zakynthos. What are the interests behind it? They have to do three things: The possible escape route if necessary, the restoration, repair and support of the shipwreck. It's over. The rest will be asked as many times as you want for the development of this particular tourist destination. Where? Tools are given to this bill with DMOs in order to develop. But take care, on the one hand, of this particular part, on the other hand, now I hear all sorts of excuses. "Yes, but it's not exactly like that," "yes, but is it more metaphors", "you define the cavalry?" No, of course not. It's under the law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Schmidhuber, for his excellent report. No one can put a hand on it. I have explained to you, and I have also told you - no matter how much you cause me - that I will never interfere with the role and work of justice. There is judicial authority, legislative power and executive power. Everyone's doing their job. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill that, on the basis of what the tourist players have asked for and studied, comes to settle the subject of the thermal sources and the question of the temple and give tools, such as the DMOs and a number of provisions relating to individual tourism issues that have long been pouring back. Also behind this bill is a lot of hard work and hard work. I also think that this effort cannot be micropolitical or party nor governmental. If you all agree on the importance of Greek tourism, then this is an attempt by both national and supranational for our brands and for the areas with particular problems. If we all agree that the commercial world, which most of it operates and is relocated into the tourist regions and all the related professions around the tourist sector, should be supported. And these aren't the big obviously, they're mostly the small, they're mostly the many. Because tourism is a matter of many, not a few. I will defend it and defend it with all the strength of our voice and our powers and our political decisions, our legislation, in such a way, with good administration, with transparency and results. We are all judged on these results. So I think that the criticism you have made about this bill does not reflect what society believes. This - you know - is also the problem of what positions and proposals in society have. The bill will be voted on. It is clearly in the right direction. I think we'll have a very good tourist year. We'll make a great deal of effort, and I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u450	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Protocols for Integrated Management, Management and Promotion of Destination, Viamatic Sources of Greece and other arrangements for strengthening tourist development" is adjourned. We are voting on the principle, on the amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. The vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-four articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u451	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u452	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u453	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Modern Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management, Management and Promotion of Destination Organisations, Viral Sources of Greece and other arrangements for strengthening tourist development’ were accepted by a majority, in the first place, of articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u455	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-20-S1-commons.u456	(a) request for waiver of immunity, in accordance with the special agenda; and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
